ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u1	Nice greetings to those who are already in the hall, but those who are still missing have not apologized, and I invite them to enter the grand debate hall of the National Assembly. We'll start our 22nd regular session. First of all, I would like to inform you that some of your colleagues have apologized. These are: after 4 p.m. a colleague of Stanislava Stopar and colleague Jože Ašič. Otherwise, they are excused for today's debate and decision-making by colleagues Barovic, Dr. Bernik, Čeligoj, Jakič, Juri, Kacin, Kangler, Kavčič, Dr. Merlo, Pece, Peterle, Podobnik, colleague mag. Spending and for the start of the meeting of colleague Majda Širc and Dušan Vukko Please note in the hall. Before we move on to the agenda, I would say that we have also invited the Prime Minister, Mag. Mr Anton Ropa to point 1, representatives of the government to all other points, as well as to point 17, the Ombudsman, the candidate for the Deputy Ombudsman, the President of the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the representative of the Council of Justice. May I have your attention, please? We are in the process of setting the agenda for the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to the meeting on 17 January this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw a single item from the agenda within the time limit. In the course of the course of business, I received a proposal from seven parliamentary groups and a single Member to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union - to decide on this in particular, and a proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. As we say, we will decide on both proposals for enlargement separately. However, the business conditions are met. First of all, I give my word if that's what any of the candidates want. [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask, do the representatives of the delegations of the groups wish to speak to the European Union on the proposal for a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union? They want to. Please, colleague Janez Janša, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have three minutes. Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Our Group of Members opposes the enlargement of the agenda with this point. It does not claim that business and procedural conditions are met. The position given by the secretariat for legislation was very clear here. Indeed, the business commission then found that the agenda could be expanded by this point, but those who submitted the referendum voted in favour of such a position in the business committee. And with this kind of decision-making, clearly, everything will always be in accordance with the rules of procedure. These are the formal reasons why we oppose the enlargement of the agenda. However, in the context of the fact that today the qualified majority as provided for by the Constitution, the qualified majority of Members have tabled a proposal to amend Article 124 of the Constitution and with this amendment, which, by the way, has been made by a group of international and constitutional lawyers, created by the Government itself or convened jointly by the Government and some representatives of Parliament. This solution, which is submitted, removes all the dilemmas that exist in the consultation referendum, as proposed by the ruling coalition with the support of two parliamentary groups, which usually support the ruling coalition when it comes to key issues. In short, we propose that, in the interest of some of the strategic decisions of this country, a few more minutes should be taken to consider and that, now that there are two proposals on the table, where we can weigh arguments for and against both, there is actually a solution that will provide the greatest possible opportunity for the success of these two referendums, especially when it comes to a referendum on NATO, where things are closer. As much as the ruling coalition will vote on such an adventurous approach to decision-making on the European Union and NATO, whether we participate in these referendums or not, it will take full responsibility for the success of both projects - I repeat, take full responsibility for the success or failure of these two projects on its shoulders.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u3	Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Please, colleague Anderlich and colleague Potch. Comrade Anderlich, LDS delegation, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u4	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal to extend the agenda, for reasons which have already been explained in writing and received by all Members and Members. This means that by 26 March in the Republic of Slovenia it is necessary to establish the undisputed will of citizens and citizens with regard to Slovenia's entry into NATO and to determine the will of citizens and citizens to join the European Union. Today, the government has further supported this expectation. I would also propose an invitation to a referendum if there were constitutional and legal options to do so, and this is not possible by our regulations. The Republic of Slovenia, in particular the National Assembly, has committed itself to asking or respecting the will of citizens and citizens on this issue before conducting all final talks and actions relating to the entry into NATO. In any event, in this light, we also see all the responsibility of the National Assembly and Members and Members of Parliament, after a number of discussions and proposals, which were on the table from constitutional amendments to the adoption of the constitutional law, until the adoption of a special law to call for a referendum on entry into NATO, we have found that, at this stage, knowing these things, which are now, there is no way to present a different kind of referendum as an advisory referendum. That is why, together with other Members, both with the Group, with the Group of Members of the United Nations, with the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS, the Slovenian National Party, the Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, Mrs Mario Pozsonec of Hungary, Robert Battelli of the Italian People's Community, and with Mr France Čebul of the Member of the European Parliament, we have put forward this initiative. Therefore, they lodged as soon as the January meeting and the agenda were signed last week. And because, in our opinion, the reasons for this meeting are clear from today's conclusion of the business commission that such a proposal can be formulated, we will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Two other colleagues applied on behalf of their parliamentary groups, colleague Potrč and colleague Sok. Please, buddy Run first. You wanted a word? No, no, no. Yes, please, Comrade Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The Group supports the proposal for enlargement. And I would like to point out that, today, not only by the majority of the votes needed, but also by uncontested expert opinions, the Business Commission has found that Articles 6, 7 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure allow for an extension of the meeting of the National Assembly, provided that the actual conditions are also met. And today, only these actual conditions will be decided by the National Assembly. My friend Anderlič said how they were fulfilled so he wouldn't repeat it. This is about procedural conditions. With regard to the substantive conditions mentioned by Mr Janša, let me say that this morning we have received a proposal to initiate a procedure to supplement Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And as I understand the proposal, this is that the proposal does not address the referendum on entry into NATO before 26 March, but, on the contrary, requires that the referendum be held before entry, that is to say before the ratification of the international treaty. That is what the Rome one and Roman two articles of the proposal put forward by 20 Members and Members of Parliament put forward. And if so, then, of course, the conditions for by 26 March, which is one of the reasons for our proposal for the 23rd referendum, would not be met and it would therefore be a question whether or not countries that do not ratify our wish to enter are prepared to do such ratification. Secondly, this proposal would raise all procedural questions raised when we adopt our proposal, as we all know that a very difficult procedure must be carried out in the Constitutional Commission and in the National Assembly, both on the proposal to initiate constitutional changes and constitutional changes to the Constitution. When a constitutional amendment was adopted, it would be necessary to adopt a decision on the referendum and learn in a situation where we are also discussing how to meet all the necessary conditions so that the referendum could be properly declared and that there would be enough time for citizens and citizens to know what they will decide to be able to participate abroad and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u7	A colleague of Sok has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would only like to touch on the formal reasons why we think in our Group that these two points cannot be included in today's meeting of the National Assembly. Article 184, referring to the proceedings relating to the referendum, in paragraph 3, states: "The proposal shall be placed on the agenda of the first next meeting of the national assembly if it is submitted no later than 30 days before that meeting." For precisely these reasons, Mr President, Mr Pahor also raised the question of the legal and legislative service, which answers in the last paragraph: "In the light of such a rather vague arrangement to link your question concerning the possibility of extension, I believe that the business arrangement shows the direction that, with the information so far known, the extension of the January regular meeting with these agenda items would be questionable." So this is what the legal and legislative department, Secretary Tina Bitenc Pengov, is talking about. It is clear that the Rules of Procedure Commission, with such a majority of the seven council groups that have tabled these two proposals, has a sufficient number of votes on the Rules of Procedure Commission and has smoothly avoided this opinion of the legislative and legal service and, of course, voted something completely different. It voted that the third paragraph of Article 184 should not be taken into account in these two cases. This, of course, points to a clear violation of the rules of procedure that we witnessed earlier in this National Assembly before we changed the Rules of Procedure, as well as now that we have a new Rules of Procedure. I don't want to go down for substantive reasons because they've been told many times. For formal reasons, however, we are confident in our Group of Members that this is an eclectic violation of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if the third paragraph of Article 184 of these two proposals is not taken into account, why is it thus recorded in the Rules of Procedure and then what is the function of Rule 184 of the Rules of Procedure relating to referenda? This could be done differently. Time's enough. If not otherwise, Mr Porč said that today, on the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the possibility of an extraordinary meeting of Parliament was mentioned, but the President of the Group of Members, the largest party in this House, does not approve of it and is therefore imposed if there is a need for self-explanation and interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, as is the case at some point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u9	Mag. Mr Kramberger would like to report the views of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support this extension. For this reason, in particular, because such and other procedural complications are always sought in order to make one come to the referendum and the other not. We have always had this view that the referendum will be and we will also support this solution. Otherwise, according to the majority opinion of our Group of Members, it would be more appropriate to consider this at an extraordinary meeting, because this would also give greater weight to these issues. But with or because that deadline, 30 days, has to run until, I think, on February 17th, we can only call an extraordinary meeting, we are confident that what the business commission has also found today and we will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrič would like to report the views of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! In the Group of Members, we believe that the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is a matter of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Each of us who reads can interpret, perhaps in our own way, and if there are different interpretations, we have the only legal institution in force for this, this is our Rules of Procedure Commission. If we do not believe her or respect her opinion, then whose opinion will we respect if we have our own? That is why we believe in the Group of Members, if it is, and this has been said by the Committee on the Interpretation of Rules of Procedure, that the matter is in order and that we will therefore support the proposal to extend the agenda as proposed. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u13	Any other qualified speakers want a word now? I guess not. That's why we're going to move on to a decision. Once again, I'm alerting the National Assembly separately. First, on the proposal to extend the agenda by a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and in the next vote for a referendum on NATO. First of all, I am putting to the vote the proposal for a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 62 members present, 51 for. Please, Comrade Sok. Excuse me, Comrade Sok, you have the floor, you wanted, you raised your hand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u14	I'd like to ask you, Mr. President. I don't have a voting device.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u15	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u16	Well, not anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u17	Nor did my colleague Brejc, so I would like to point out that from several seats, especially here on the right side of me, there have been objections to the non-operation of the voting apparatus, and I would ask the technical service to examine it. I'll be out of session in five minutes. I'm asking the technical services to check it out immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u18	May I ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues to take their seats? As I am informed, there should be no problems with the continuation of the meeting. Please, if you could sit down. Please, if you can take your seats, we're in the middle of a decision. Are we all in our seats? So, due to the warning that everything might not be all right in the operation of the voting apparatus, we stopped the decision. As I am informed from the technical service of the National Assembly, now there are no more reasons not to continue. We will decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Present 71, 54 for and 17 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. We will now make a similar decision on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. We're voting. Present 71, 54 for and 17 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that this extension has also been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal by the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity to extend the agenda by considering the amendment of the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. Does the chairman of the commission want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do representatives of the parliamentary groups want it? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda to this point. Please, we're voting. 68 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I'm guessing we voted on that point. The assembly will consider this amendment of the report as the 17th A item on the agenda and the previous two items at the end of the scheduled agenda, on Wednesday evening or Thursday. Given that I have heard several different opinions on this, I would like to consult with the leaders of the groups of Members tomorrow, which is expected to take place on Thursday. The vote on the agenda is now ahead of us. I am voting on this proposal for an agenda with additions, as we have voted. Please, we're voting. 63 present, 47 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the Assembly has been set. We are moving on to the 1st item of the agenda, this is the hearing on issues related to the termination and confirmation of mandates. We would have done this before 3 p.m., and then at 3 p.m. we would continue with the questions of the Member States. The appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 20 December last year, the National Assembly concluded that Members to Danica Simšič had terminated their mandate. The Republic Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the current Member has been transferred to Dr. Rad Bohinca. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Anybody else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The term of office of Mr Rad Bohinc, born on 23 June 1940, resident of Hacetova 9, Ljubljana, shall be confirmed. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 54 in, 1 in. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the conclusion that the duties of a Member are terminated in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members. Since Dr Rado Bohinc was appointed Minister under the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, he cannot act as a Member. This finding was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore take note of the next conclusion that, as of today, Dr Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, cannot perform this function under Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on Members. That is why we will now move on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member acting in government. The Republic Election Commission forwarded to the National Assembly a finding on which candidate has the right to replace the Member of the Council of Bohinca acting as Minister of the Interior. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. The president doesn't want a word. Do qualified Members, Members and Members want it? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: At a time when a Member of the Council of the European Union, appointed as Minister in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, he shall act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today, Mrs Jerica Mrzel, born 11.4.1945, resident of Stritareva 7 in Ljubljana. We will now vote on this. Please, we're voting. 63 in attendance, 62 in, no in. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I'd like to invite my colleague, Jerico Frost, to join us. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, this also concludes this item on the agenda. At 3 p.m., we will move on to questions from Members and Members, and by then I am adjourning the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u19	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, Prime Minister, Ministers. Good day, again. We're at 2. DOCTORS OF THE DAY, THAT'S THE QUESTIONS OF THE POINTS AND THE ENTITIES. You have on your hands, I believe, an inventory of those questions orally and in writing to the Prime Minister, the government or the competent ministers that have not yet been answered. I ask the Prime Minister and ministers to answer the questions raised by MEPs and members of the National Assembly. There are still some questions that have not been answered. I have already mentioned several times that we have no other business options than to point out the business deadlines in which the government has to answer the questions raised. The order for asking questions from the Members of the opposition is laid down in such a way that two members of the opposition are members of the ruling coalition. The first three parliamentary questions will be answered by the Prime Minister Mag. Anton Rop. Between you and me, I welcome the Prime Minister. The Member may ask no more than two questions, for which three minutes is available for each question, and the President or the Secretary-General shall answer questions within a maximum of five minutes. The Member may request a supplement to the reply. The explanation of the request to complete the reply shall not exceed 2 minutes and the reply of the Prime Minister or the competent ministers shall not be completed for more than 3 minutes. Two ministers apologized for participating in this agenda item, Dr. Rado Bohinc and Minister Andrej Richter. The first question will be asked by Marko Diaca. Comrade Marko Diaci, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well-welcome, distinguished Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister: I ask you to comment on the developments and statements concerning Slovenia's integration into the European Union and NATO. The Constitution is clear, each minister as a member of the government is responsible for the government's work and the Prime Minister is concerned about the unity of political direction and coordinating the work of ministers. On the basis of the Constitution, the law has also been passed to quote the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which states: "The Prime Minister leads and directs the work of the government, cares about the unity of the political and administrative direction of the government, coordinates the work of ministers, represents the government and refers and directs its meetings." Accordingly, I ask you, Mr. Prime Minister, How do you comment on the position or statement of the Minister of Defence regarding the service of compulsory military service and consideration of compulsory service, possibly for women as well as the statement of the Director of the Government Information Office that he understands Slovenia's non-involvement in NATO as a fact of reintroduction of the recruitment system? In the Party of Young Slovenia we advocate the abolition of compulsory military duty and the introduction of the professionalization of the Slovenian Armed Forces, because the recruitment system does not guarantee the security of the Republic of Slovenia. There is a growing decline in recruitment for demographic reasons, and more and more are being decided for civil service of the military, and this means a reduction in security for Slovenia, and the alternative is certainly the Slovenian Army's professionalization project. This is, of course, independent of Slovenia's involvement in NATO. Minister of Defence, Mr Grizold, presented the Slovenian Army's professionalization project in the National Assembly last year as a condition for Slovenia to provide itself with security. Representatives of NATO also repeatedly stressed that Slovenia must ensure its own national security. The second statement is the statement or position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he declared that it was concerning NATO and the European Union and Slovenia's entry into this organisation, so to speak, for two per cent of the same medal: Is that the position of the government? As Prime Minister, I ask you to present the Government's position on this subject. Is it the internal disharmony of the government team? Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question raised. Dear Members and honourable Members! I think it is an important question at this point, which may be answered more precisely. This is likely to be discussed in particular in some substantive points and assumptions over the next period. I would therefore like to point out in the opening that the decision for Slovenia's membership in the European Union and in relation to the Joint Decision, both the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the vast majority of the political parties of the National Assembly, is a joint decision. Finally, this decision on the simultaneous entry into the European Union and NATO was reflected through important documents of the National Assembly, both in the Declaration on the Foreign Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is very clear that the strategic development and security interests of the Republic of Slovenia are included in the European Union and in NATO. Similarly, the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia adopted by the National Assembly in June 2001 stressed that the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and NATO is a priority of Slovenian foreign policy. So it goes very clearly and repeatedly on two sides of one foreign policy objective, and this is integration into Euro-Atlantic integration. And, of course, in this context, I also understand the statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Finally, it is worth noting that the end of last year has been the adoption of a specific declaration by the European Union and NATO, highlighting the strategic partnership between the European Union and NATO; highlighting in particular some of the fundamental democratic principles that bind both organisations and stressing that NATO and NATO will support European security and defence policy, and also specifying precisely the areas in which this cooperation will be highlighted and highlighted in the coming years. These are known crisis prevention actions in different regions across Europe, in particular in south-eastern Europe, counter-terrorism activity and the like. Of course, it is quite clear that Slovenia's integration into the European Union and also into NATO is a process that needs to be addressed in this context, as discussed separately by the Foreign Minister, including in such a way that the arguments for both entry into the European Union are specifically examined, as well as arguments for and arguments against entry into NATO. Undoubtedly, and you know this, NATO is one of those steps and one of those steps, which, in the context of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, represents the highest level of national security guaranteed by this entry and which is not ensured by the entry into the European Union itself, and it is therefore reasonable and right to talk about both links separately. I do not exclude this in any way, but it makes sense that both themes are discussed simultaneously and that we will also try to do so further in these days, before deciding at the referendum. As for the second statement, I think the Defence Minister himself has already explained enough what he meant by saying what he said about recruitment and what the truth about recruitment is. Undoubtedly, the thesis is that in Slovenia we decided to professionalise the Slovenian Army because we believe that there are many reasons for this, because I believe that many arguments apply. I firmly believe that, as long as we enter NATO, if we succeed in the referendum, we will carry out this professionalization within those deadlines as envisaged. As long as this does not happen, complementarities at the time of joining NATO and the additional professionalization needs clearly require reflection on how to carry out professionalization and with what dynamics. As far as the recruitment of women is concerned, I clearly and clearly argue, and I can say in agreement that, of course, this will not be on any condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next question is for the Prime Minister, Dr. Andrej Bajuk. You want a follow-up question? Please, I looked at you, and I wanted to ask if you had a supplementary question. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thanks again for saying that. Thank you for your answer. I'd like to ask a further explicit question: Will the professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces continue even if Slovenia does not decide to enter NATO at the referendum? One question. And an additional question with regard to the European Union: Does the Head of the European Union delegation in Slovenia feel that NATO and the European Union are not similar to the organisation or that we cannot talk about two salaries of the same medal?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u25	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much for the additional question. So I got an extra time to say something more about the professionalization of the Slovenian Army. I have previously highlighted that we have consciously decided to professionalise the Slovenian Army because we believe that this improves the quality of the Slovenian Army, and ultimately the overall national security, that there are many arguments for doing so. Of course, it is quite clear that professionalization without integration into NATO brings with it greater costs. It requires, of course, that we have a professional army in a number of areas or in some areas in which we would not otherwise have one. This, of course, entails additional costs and added public financial obligations. Since this entails additional public financial obligations, professionalisation is therefore possible in the longer term. And I can tell you that in this first analysis, the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces assessed the possibility of professionalisation by 2008. Of course, this has enabled us to advance professionalization in certain areas and so get to it first, that is in 2004. The answer is therefore very clear: professionalisation is, however, likely to be more gradual, unless we all decide together to devote more expenditure to defence purposes in a shorter time and so we do professionalisation earlier, which, of course, will be relatively difficult, given the priorities we have, according to my assessment. As for the European Union and NATO project, I said. Undoubtedly, in some areas these are considered to be completely separate projects, but there are some areas where these two projects are contacted, where the points of reference are the same values and the same foundations, so both of these projects need to be looked at from both sides, both separately and together.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The next question will be asked by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. You have the floor, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! It is generally known that in recent years and, above all, in 2002 the increase in so-called controlled prices has contributed significantly to high inflation. Among them are the most important prices of all types of municipal services paid by all households or by all consumers. We are currently aware that the government has decided to adopt the quarterly price freeze as a means of achieving this year's inflation goals. Clearly, so far controlled pricing policy has not produced real fruit. Since I want to be as specific and understandable as possible for most citizens, please explain: What instruments does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia actually have to design and, in particular, to monitor price policies, in relation to the particular case of Energy Ljubljana? On the basis of any legal basis or state documents, in recent years, the Energy of Ljubljana has calculated profit or accumulation in the prices of its services. [[profit plus depreciation]] about 5 billion tolls to invest in the banking sector? In 2001, she invested 3 billion tolars in the purchase of Slovenia's investment bank, and last Friday we read in daily newspapers that she was also willing to recapitalise almost two additional billion tolars in 2003. The Bank of Slovenia has found, or at least this way, that there are hidden losses in this bank and has also identified the need to increase the guarantee capital. In what documents did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provide that utility companies provide profits to invest in other activities, such as banking, through the price of services? So how does the government control the calculation and charging of the actual prices of municipal services? What body carries out this task? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Member, Dr. Bajuk, you are therefore asking about the government's pricing policy, with particular emphasis on Energy Ljubljana. First of all, given the fact that you asked what mechanisms the government has at its disposal, I would briefly say on this subject without going to a broader discussion on the importance of anti-inflation policy in the context of integration into the European Union, integration into the ERMZ and reducing price disparities between the European Union and Slovenia. As you know, under the price control law, the government may influence certain prices in certain areas explicitly mentioned in this law. These are prices that the government can directly influence, electricity, tariff customers, rail passenger transport, RTV, tolls, textbooksE and subscribersO. Then it is a certain control over prices that are under the direct control of local communities - only partial government control and influence on the rise and dynamics of price increases are possible under this legislation. Then, of course, it is prices that are shaped according to specific models. Recently, the government has changed the oil model and, as you know, has provided additional instruments in line with this model to compensate for the once-in-a-lifetime rise in world oil prices due to the Venezuelan crisis and, of course, to the uncertainty about Iraq. In a timely situation, of course, the government has the opportunity to raise and reduce excise duties and thus compensate for the pressure on price rises and lowers inflation. It is then tax and other charges affecting regulated prices or their component for different taxes, reimbursement for utility services, reimbursement for the use of prices. In this area, therefore, the direct influence of the government may be possible and this area covers around 13% of the price index. So the government's impact on these areas is relatively limited, but we have chosen, in line with the 2003 price increase plan, to be very strict in this area. In the context of the general objective of reaching 5.1% of inflation in 2003, and of course around 4% of inflation in 2004, we made a precise plan for raising regulated prices, so that they will aggregately reach an overall level of prices. In this context, I would like to stress that this, of course, means pressure on public economic services in many sectors and, of course, reduces, significantly reduces, the possibility of creating profits, accumulation and, of course, investment in various areas, but in particular in such areas and areas as you have talked about. As far as price formation is concerned in this particular area, which you are talking about, of course, is a company owned by the city of Ljubljana and in this context holding specifically, holding ownership of the city of Ljubljana, as you know. In this context, the government has no direct interferences, neither ownership nor indirect through the price law, but through energy law. However, the energy law sets out a specific method, method and methodology for how prices can be raised in these cases. In the last two years, prices in this area have therefore been rising in line with energy law. And according to the energy law, they also rose in this case. In particular, this shall be decided by the Energy Agency. To put it another way, I absolutely do not support any such activity by public companies. This type of anti-inflation policy will significantly reduce the possibility of creating surplus profits, profits and the unnecessary investment of such companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u31	Complementary question, Dr. Bayuk? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. When representatives of the International Monetary Fund at their last visit to Parliament at the end of last year asked why the prices of municipal services were rising so fast, the ruling coalition members received an answer that, because we have to align them with European prices. Representatives of the International Monetary Fund seemed surprised at the response or ignorance of the economy, as the prices of municipal services do not belong in the exchange sector. How surprised we would be to hear today's response, which essentially confirms our assessment that in these cases it is primarily about financing the transitional objectives of the political elite, which is quite obvious in the specific case of the SIB Bank in Ljubljana. In the opposition, we believe that the policy of controlled prices is unsuccessful because those who have scissors and canvas in their hands simply do not want to have mechanisms to control the implementation of government or state policies, or those who should not be able to provide them. Question to you: What, then, do we have to deal with, with the intentional contempt of the key role of the country or with the incompetence of those who should do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. I think Dr. Bajuk's best answer would be if he read the report of the International Monetary Fund and also the part of the text that is intended for this particular part of price regulation. And if you read this, you will find that the measures that we are proposing are those that are welcome, which are recommended and with whom these people you are quoting have agreed in this way. These are perfectly normal recommended measures in those areas where it is right for the State to intervene in the area of prices. These are areas where there are monopolistic and oligopolistic market structures and, of course, those areas where there are large price imbalances. The release of these prices could, of course, create new disparities and put a great deal of pressure on prices. Let me say that regardless of this point of reference you have given in relation to European prices, at least as far as the price of electricity for tariff customers is concerned, at around 87% of the average price level in the European Union countries. And what I agree with and have agreed to discuss with the International Monetary Fund is no doubt that there is no need for an automatic level of electricity price like that of the European Union. However, it is possible, of course, that in some areas we also have lower prices, and that some European countries, the Member States of the European Union, also have these, and this is a matter of conscious policy. I could also quote relative prices and their imbalances in some other areas, such as passenger transport and railways. However, I can ensure, and this will show results, that, unless there are specific, exceptional imbalances in the field of petroleum derivatives, which is possible because of what is happening in the world, as long as these movements within those limits that are still manageable, this policy, which we have set, will, of course, prove effective in this part. The level and growth of regulated prices will be within these limits I have been talking about, and I assure you, I am sure that this will also be welcomed by the International Monetary Fund. Of course, this means pressure on public economic services to lower their costs to adapt their business to exogenous conditions. We gave them exogenous conditions. We have limited their prices, we have limited their price growth and, of course, they are responsible and must operate, and of course they will operate to survive.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 246(2), I propose a public debate on this issue. The fact is that this is not a discussion of what the International Monetary Fund thinks, but what Slovenian citizens think of the fact that when we have such a price control policy that allows not the first time, it is the second time that the Municipality of Ljubljana invests in bankrupt banking institutions, I think it is time that this National Assembly is finally studying this thing and that we will not only depend on some administrative measures that only have four months in force. It is essential that we hold a public debate on this, that Slovenian citizens understand who actually has the responsibility, that such things can even happen in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Bajuk therefore made a procedural request to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to the question raised by him. This will be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and will, as usual, decide on Tuesday, tomorrow afternoon, when we begin the decisions related to today's and tomorrow's meeting of the National Assembly. The next question will be raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič to the Prime Minister. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A very nice greeting to the Prime Minister, to all the ministers and all the ministers present! It is already a well-known initiative on the division of RTV Slovenia into two television programmes, government and opposition. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome this initiative because we have very poor experience with the current suit, which has failed to lead the public institution RTV Slovenia into ever-increasing losses. Specifically, on 7 January, the opposition was given the opportunity to explain its views in television interviews on current developments, but the Slovenian National Party was given unequal treatments because we were only given five minutes about, sort of like the Party of Youth, while the President of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Parties could speak 50 minutes live. In addition, other parties to the coalition [[it is the United List, the People's Party and the DeSUS, other than the LDS]] They didn't even have a chance to play on TV. I ask you: What code do editors on national television take into account in their professional opinion, who can perform because parliamentary political parties simply do not have the same options, even though this is enshrined in the constitution? This means that these editors violate the Constitution, and they also wipe their feet against the media law, the RTV law and their own code of information program. It is my opinion, as well as the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, that we should stop the collection of the subscription, which brings considerable sums of money to the public institution, which disappear unknown to where, while this institution produces a discriminatory programme which informs viewers and viewers unilaterally and which is being watched by fewer and fewer people in any event. RTV Slovenia should simply leave the market. At the same time, your government, Mr Prime Minister, should do everything possible to finally establish a fund for media pluralisation. So I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister: What is your opinion on these proposals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u39	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. First, on the first part of the issue relating to the distribution of TV Slovenia into two programmes, government and opposition. I've said something about it publicly and even spoken. I must say that something has already been said in relation to this proposal in the Slovenian public; discussions have been held on the basis of international comparisons and on the basis of a thorough analysis of such organisation of televisions. The international comparison shows that there is no such arrangement in Europe. You probably know that there was a similar solution in Italy, which led to a number of disputes, disputes, and eventually to an end to such an arrangement. There is also a very clear thesis that such a division would be and would be contrary to the fundamental principles of media law in Slovenia. So at least it is my opinion that it would be unacceptable for such a way of sharing TV Slovenia to lead to a very strange picture and reporting of Slovenian television. I firmly believe that Slovenian journalists, that Slovenian media are independent enough to actually show this every day, that they are able to report and report on all the salaries of political life in Slovenia and that they need not only to allow it, but also to enable and support it. As regards the second question concerning the collection of the RTV Slovenia public service subscription, let me say that the solutions in Europe are different, that we have some very similar solutions as we do in Greece and Portugal, that there are similar solutions in the UK and some other countries when they collect this agency's subscription. However, in some countries this is not the case, but in these cases such funds are provided directly from the State budget. I think that in this case it would be very difficult for me to agree on this type of financing of the Television of Slovenia and that in no way would this in itself lead to greater savings or rationalisation within. On the contrary, it is likely that this policy would provide additional and greater opportunities for it to become involved in the functioning of a public institution and it is entirely possible for the independence of the public institution to be reduced in this way. That is why I think that this arrangement that we have is good and that we should talk in particular about other topics in this regard, of course those that speak about the possibilities for greater rationalisation and also the efficiency of television operations. As far as the last question is concerned, we have media legislation and some instruments in it. In particular, I think it is important that one coming out of the European legal order is linked to the media law and to the audio visual fund that he is already doing part of this task, which he is talking about. However, as long as this debate is considered to be necessary in the National Assembly, to be extended to the Fund, of course, the discussion is possible and the arguments are different. European experience is also very different if we look at what such funds exist and function. Many times, however, we have seen the problems of subsidising and co-financing all media in this case, when we talk about newspapers, that they are also the biggest in this case, that there is a relatively large dispersion of funds, and that the effect is then relatively small. That is why I believe that then we should have a really weighty discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u41	My friend Jelinčič has an additional question for the Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister: Do you not think that when the public agency RTV Slovenia spends enormous financial resources from the public budget, when this hole is where we throw money from day to day and it does not want to be filled? Wouldn't it be better to run the French system and put the TV into bankruptcy and then the next day re-engage those who work on television with a maximum of half of them and leave everyone else out of it? This would give us a quality program. We'd get independent editors, but above all, the state wouldn't throw money through a window with a shovel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u43	Sir, the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thanks for the extra question. Of course, I think that with some policy through which we would deliberately send public institutions into bankruptcy, we would not have come very far. Otherwise, it is also very controversial to send companies and institutions to bankruptcy. I think it's a pretty easy and easy way to go and it's going to be very hard to follow. I think there are other ways that are harder. This is a discussion within the public institution world, a discussion with the administration and, of course, the most difficult path, such as restructuring and rationalisation within the institution and the search for reserves. In doing so, there is nothing wrong with a certain pressure being exerted in this direction. In this way, as you ask, you no doubt perform it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. These were three questions that you were obliged to answer. The following questions of colleagues and colleagues will be answered by the Minister and ministers. The first question will be asked by colleague Maria Pozsonec. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: The continuous education of farmers is very important. That's exactly why I'm asking, and I'm interested in organizing lectures on sprinkles. I am surprised by the high quotation for this lecture, because I believe that 12,000 SIT per person is an excessive sum because 130 people were invited to the seminar. I know they paid for renting halls, electricity, gas, and so on, which is $59,000. It means that the organizer made $1,560.000 with this seminar. I wonder: What was the purpose of the seminar? For if this one was organized to help farmers and agriculture, he should be organized for free. However, if it was intended to help the organizer or the agricultural forestry chamber, it was an absolutely wrong thing, for farmers cannot support this state institution. I want to know: Why are they allowed to raise funds for something that is self-evidently part of their tasks, such as disseminating modern knowledge and behaviour about media tasks? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u47	The Minister of Agriculture will answer your question. Please, you have the floor, mag. Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much for the question, Madam Members. In fact, the plant protection product law provides for compulsory education to be attended by both sellers and operators. So, those who sell, and those who benefit from these funds. Given that there is an increasing environmental sensitivity to dealing with hazardous substances. I'm not gonna tell you why or why. This program is being implemented by someone. This programme shall be carried out by so-called authorised organisations or those which, on the basis of this, can carry out such activities and are entered in the relevant register. The whole matter includes a 15-hour course, practical work, written examination, literature and a certificate of successful work. In short, since this programme is not being implemented by the State, it is clear that no one in this country is clearly prepared to do this programme for free. These organisations 13 which are registered in a special register. Of course, on the basis of expertise and highly educated experts who, within these 15 hours of giving their knowledge and experience, are involved in this. In accordance with the legislation, the costs are borne by the candidates themselves. That's what happened last year and before. But there is a special commission that sets the price. These commissions are composed in a mixed manner. It also includes representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which advocates the interests of plant protection producers or operators. Last year this price was 9,000 tolars and this year it amounts to 10,000 tolars on the basis of a decision made on 25 November last year. At this price, an additional 2,000 represent the value added tax and the literature they receive. So instead of last year's over 10,500 this year's amount is 12,000 tolars. But if it's possible to find someone to do it for free, it'll be possible. However, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the state is not dealing with this. This is done by authorised organisations and these authorised organisations, obviously among other things, or mainly live from the fact that experts involved by experts are not, unfortunately, free of charge, except those who are in office. This is the amount fixed by the special commissions about 10% higher than last year. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Complementary question, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much! I must say that I cannot agree with the answer because these organisations are living on a state account, so the budget is where the money comes from. We also have an acceleration job, whose job it is to do what they did at this seminar. So, only one seminar picked up a million 560 grand. It is not true that the organization of this seminar has cost so much. And it's not true that we can draw so much blood and fat from farmers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u51	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you! Once again, the course costs 10,000 tolars. This is subject to VAT and the cost of literature. We, as a country, have nothing to do with this course except to ensure that those who do not perform this course cannot sell or perform operational work. However, if the agri-agricultural chamber under which the advisory service is prepared to conduct this course for free or to implement it at all, we do not mind. They must fulfil the conditions, apply for a tender and obtain an appropriate concession for that purpose. They can do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much! My colleague Branko Kelemin wants to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. As he was informed, there is no minister, he apologized. There are no reasons for the Minister to be present. Will you ask the question anyway, Comrade Kelemin? Comrade Kelemin, are you going to postpone this to the next session?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u54	I'd rather wait till he gets here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u55	No, he won't be here today for excused reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u56	Then another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u57	Another time. Thank you very much! A colleague of mags. Janez Petty Officer to the Minister of Transport. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! I would like to ask the Minister, Mr President, and the Minister for Labour, Mr Dimovski. Mr Transport Minister: In your propaganda paper on the referendum, you predicted that if the citizens decided against the referendum, the savings would be very high. [[You mentioned the number 151 billion tolars]] . Now, of course, citizens expect appropriate measures in view of this objective achieved. You listed several alternative solutions, six oncological institutes, paediatric clinics, 3,000 apartments, then two pensions for pensioners, and 193,000 tolls for individual citizens. You probably just meant it symbolically. But people have been thinking seriously. That's why they're asking me as a Member now what they're going to get out of this. They don't expect 600 oncology institutes. We'd be happy to have one oncology institute after 30 years. Now, to the questions: You started privatisation today. What profit do you expect this year in Slovenian railways? What about the update? Where did you get the money, which item, for your campaign that came to every home in our country? Now, even to Mr Dimovski, Dr Dimovski: A year ago, I asked a question concerning the classification of disability. I have asked this question, in fact, to the government as a whole. I got the answer that there is a problem in our country because we have different systems of disability detection and therefore different social transfers, different assessments, which some people also see as discrimination. After one year, so, from this answer, I wonder: What have you done in this direction? I'm specifically measuring. Have you applied for an international classification of defects and obstacles? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much! So two questions. First, the Minister of Transport will be in charge. Please, Presbyterian!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Master Petty Officer for the question. Of course, there was a claim about other matters of what would happen or what would happen in the event of success or failure. The outcome of the referendum merely indicated what can be done with these means, what can be built or what can be improved. Of course, that's a rhetorical question. I don't think it makes sense for me to give you the details right now. Of course, all these projects are in government projects. The government and the state will, of course, realise these necessary things, as we state them and as you have stated them. Therefore, on the basis of the outcome of the referendum it is necessary to adopt first the Act on the Conversion and Privatisation of Slovenian Railways. Not only about privatisation, as has been repeatedly stressed, because of course privatisation is in a different way. First, it is necessary to reorganise Slovenian railways. The business plan of the Slovenian Railway Public Company should also be adopted immediately in the next phase or at the same time for this year, in which we will agree on all business elements for this year. Also on the basis of this restructuring and transformation of the Slovenian Railways and on the basis of the rehabilitation programme, it is necessary to agree on what we will do with all the debts incurred over the past 10 years. With these documents, of course, it will be possible to give accurate answers. As for the basis for the costs we had, not through propaganda, I would say by explaining to citizens, citizens, about these referendum issues. A public opinion survey conducted around the new year has shown that citizens and citizens are very poorly aware of the problems of these referendum issues or that the clarity of these referendum issues is highly questionable. This has also been demonstrated in the examination of the call for a referendum in the National Assembly. So I'd say so. The financial basis is, among other things, in the 2003 budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this textual part, where the material costs are included under the heading, where the advertising resources are also listed. Thus, the government and ministries within the government must explain to citizens and citizens the specific details of individual referendum issues. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u61	The second question will be answered by Minister Dr Vlado Dimovski.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much for asking. We also share the concern that the uniform classification of disability will become operational as soon as possible in the Slovenian space. Therefore, immediately, practically after the adoption of this classification, which was adopted in May 2002, we also set up an inter-departmental commission, this being said by a decision of the Government on 3 August 2001, which immediately began work. This work is extremely extensive because the philosophy of the new classification of disability is not the same as the evaluation of the single classification so far, but is linked to a specific situation which, of course, also allows for a more precise adjustment of the disabled to the individual work process. This commission, which has been inter-resorted and chaired by a representative of the Disability Office and has practically completed its work in the good part. There is a way of lecturing the work that will be designed for practical use. However, since a large number of provisions in this text are also practical, revision is needed. Once the revision of individual concepts has been completed, it must also be confirmed by the consent of the World Health Organisation. I look forward to this work being extremely accelerated so that we can use it as soon as possible. We are in the year of disabled persons, 2003 is the year of disabled persons. I would like to see some of the fruits of this translation in this year’s year as well. When preparing legislation, both the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Law on the Training and Education of Persons with Disabilities, we take into account or intend to follow this classification. The last law is practically prepared in the draft and will be considered by the project group and the social partners in a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u63	Mag. Do you want a follow-up question or a follow-up? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u64	Regarding railways: I look forward to this business plan, which I hope will not anticipate any losses now with such a good result in view of the referendum. I therefore expect positive effects, but above all something. Citizens will be very keen to see whether you will again set any requirements for guarantees and leased loans. If this happens in the National Assembly, we'll take you in for a word. And, of course, at the end of the year, about the business wall. That too! With regard to this legislation, the classification of disability is as follows: International Standard. The official translation itself may be sufficient. There is no need for any reconfiguration. I was more interested in what concrete implementation was like so we wouldn't have so many systems. I believe you, Mr. Secretary, on the word that this will happen. But maybe I'll ask you again in a year. This time will be over again a lot of water, what has happened. However, citizens will assess this work that we have here in Parliament for two or three years. Of course you're on the executive branch of power, and I'm on this one. But it's your responsibility to do what you do. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much! Would you like to supplement the Minister's response? [[No, no, ……]] Okay! My colleague Kontic will ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The question of dispatch, as the President has said, is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food: The Animal Protection Act entered into force on 18.12.1999. Article 27 provides for the provision of shelter as a local matter of public interest, which is provided as a public service, with the provision of one shelter for every 800 registered dogs in the municipality. For those responsible in local communities, the question is how to obtain a register transmitted by veterinarians and thus enable compliance with the obligation set out in the Law on the Protection of Animals and also municipal decisions defining the obligations of owners with regard to the breeding of dogs, as well as the maintenance of the purity of public areas. The latter is becoming one of the more important issues in urban centres. As far as I know, there is even a constitutional dispute in this regard. Veterinarians are, of course, rightly afraid that transmission of the register or data could reduce the number of vaccinations. On the other hand, I am convinced that the owners of dogs, at least the vast majority, are also aware of our responsibilities when deciding to buy or purchase a dog. I therefore ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food: When and how will the competent authorities ensure that a register is obtained for the needs of local communities?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u67	Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you so much for asking. Even now, the so - called partial registers of dogs run by individual municipalities by veterinary organizations performing their work. For example, rabies vaccination based on concessions granted by the veterinary administration. All the number of vaccinated dogs shall be reported on a regular basis to the Regional Veterinary Office, where these data are already available if the local community wishes to request this information. So this data can be obtained in this way right now. In 2003, however, it is envisaged to establish a central computer registry of dogs in Slovenia, which would allow authorised persons direct access to data on registered dogs in a specific area and on their owners. This will essentially facilitate the review of the number of dogs in individual local communities. In this way, it will be more transparent, even if it is linked to the appropriate labelling of dogs through chips, which would be and in our opinion are the most modern, appropriate and transparent form. To this end, funds are also fixed and foreseen in the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u69	Are you satisfied with the answer, Comrade Kontic? Then I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Although I have already asked the same question in the November meeting of the National Assembly, I addressed it to the Minister, Mrs Teo Petrin. Despite the President's assurance, Mr Pahor, that I will receive an answer in writing, the Minister or representative of the Minister of Economy was not present at the said meeting. I have not received an answer until today, even though the marriage period is 30 days. Given that the Minister is here today, I will ask my question once again: In the Official Journal 28/2 a public call was launched to promote the introduction of methods and tools to increase productivity and co-financing of the costs of the call was to support businesses in systematically transferring knowledge and introducing methods and tools to increase productivity, with an emphasis on systems of continuous improvement. The envisaged public tender funds for 2002 were 50 million tolars and for 2003 and 2004, according to the appropriations in the 2003 and 2004 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know how difficult it is for Slovenian companies to devote money to modernise production, not because they would not be aware of necessity, but simply not capable of investment. The State resources earmarked for this purpose are therefore even more desirable and necessary. With a view to the transparency of the tendering procedures, the economic and fair distribution of funds, of course the purpose of spending, I would like to know: How the Ministry chooses the company: How does it control the distribution process, the level of funds and the purpose of spending? In particular: What were the procedures in the case of tender funds to promote the introduction of methods and tools to increase productivity? I also want to know: What did they find out about the inspection and surveillance? Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u71	You have the floor to answer, Madam Minister, Tea Petrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have received your question about the means of public invitation to tender to promote the introduction of methods and tools to increase productivity and what you have found in monitoring [[That was a written question.]] . I have to say that the written answer was prepared, signed on my behalf, but it looks like it's stuck somewhere in the dispatch if you didn't get it. Because I have it right in front of me. In accordance with the question raised, I can answer the following. The purpose of the call is, as you have found, to support businesses in systematically transferring knowledge and introducing methods and tools to increase productivity, with a focus on the system of continuous improvements. Companies may apply in the following stages: introduction of the method in two phases. The first phase is the introduction of a method of a system of continuous improvements for businesses that will only start with the introduction of the method. The second phase is the upgrading of methods for companies that have already started introducing the method and have achieved measurable results. The cost of co-financing shall be eligible, including advice and mentoring in the implementation of this approach, advice of the operator for the introduction of the logistics assistance information system in the execution of the project, project training, training of managers and workers on the project at home and abroad, information system and equipment for the implementation and monitoring of the project, purchase of a licence for the use of the method and so on. The criteria are clearly recorded and are in line with these objectives of the Ministry. The coordination of the project in terms of business justification shall be monitored, transparency of the application submitted, organisation of the implementation of the project and the intended effects. 50% is scoring. Objectives of the Ministry 25% and financial design of the project in terms of cost variability and transparency and compliance of costs with the introduction plan 25%. Well, these are the criteria that are published. That's not a problem at all. I think there's a way to monitor it. Well, if we look at the results now, we can say that 65 companies applied for the tender in mid-2002 or in the previous period for this year. Only 18 projects were approved to introduce methods and tools to increase productivity totalling SIT 99 million over a period of two years. Of this, 8 million tolars were allocated for 2000. And how is supervision carried out? We exercise control over the purposeful use of funds by means of invoices and business certificates on the implementation of activities. Therefore, undertakings which fail to demonstrate the performance of the activities laid down do not also receive funds under the contract. As an example, only 12 companies met the conditions in 2000 and 2001. The results recorded in these companies are for a two-year period because the results can be monitored - because it is a process, but not a machine or something like that - are cost reductions in these companies, productivity increases, an increase in the number of innovative proposals. This means innovative cultures, short-term settings and other technological improvements in companies, increased motivation for employees, for example, reflected in a significant reduction in hospital leave and so on. All these results have been published and are also available on the Ministry of Economy’s websites. They were also published during an international conference in Ljubljana last year, also in the press and other media. What would you add to that? In short, control is carried out in a very systematic manner and, as it is said, companies that fail to demonstrate the performance of their activities also do not receive funds under the contract. Well, I told you about the results. But you have to get all of this by mail, because there are a lot of other things that have to do with this, we also gave you a review.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Okay! The following question will then be raised by colleague Peter Levič, Minister of Transport and Minister of the Information Society. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question was addressed to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Information Society, but Mr Drobnic beat me to the punch. So I'm going to take my question anyway, and the answer isn't mandatory. You've already answered something in his reply. I'm going to focus more on the content of advertising flyers that have been distributed by household. There was plenty of information in them, how much or what could be done with this money that could be saved. Mr Drobnic mentioned six oncological, four paediatric clinics, 3,000 apartments for young families, nonprofit and so on. I think it's obvious voter fraud, because both ministries were aware that even if the referendum hadn't been voted on, they wouldn't have gotten a new oncology institute, not a pediatric clinic before they got them. Actually, I think it's a mockery for everyone who's trying to build both of these objects as soon as possible. Especially if we know that the pediatric clinic has been building for ten years. Cancer institute patients are in impossible situations, which can also be seen on television. I was just wondering: Will these funds be saved in the absence of a referendum for railway workers? Will the items for the construction of these objects be indicated? I also give an initiative or hope that at least 10% of the funds mentioned as alternatives in your leaflets will be for the things you have promised. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u75	Please, Mr. Minister for the Information Society. Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you so much for asking. It's about direct mail first. In addition to what Minister Preseknik added, I would say that the reasons why the ministry, probably the Ministry of Transport, has served these forms are double. First time. We are obliged to inform citizens and citizens who have or will decide at a referendum on the positions of the Ministry and the government on important issues that have some financial implications. For this reason, it is also necessary to add what concerns me personally - that I was worried about a relatively high degree of indifference. All the polls indicated that participation would be extremely small, that most people claim that these are not issues that should be decided at all at the referendum and that participation would be very low. The right to information with these leaflets has increased interest and, ultimately, has brought some kind of participation, which we can somehow take for force as something that you might call a referendum legitimate, not legal in any case, that is legitimate - if you know the difference between legitimacy and legality. That's exactly what it meant. The other thing that matters is when you see what might happen. The numbers that are in play are numbers that are not always presented to every citizen and citizen, including us. What does that mean? I'm talking about billions or tens of billions. Sometimes it's hard for a lot of people to imagine what all this means. After a certain number, it seems to us that everything else is about the same. And that's exactly what we've been trying to show with these comparisons. How much does that mean, this stake or number that was in the referendum? What does that mean? I would have remembered here, or I would have warned you that before the government, especially by the opposition, even the media, sometimes strongly attacked by the apparent purchase of planes, the media and also a number of Members were doing the same thing in some way. What would the government have done if she hadn't bought a plane? I tell you, however, the referendum to return investments to the telecommunications network actually worked for those who proposed it. The government and the ministry will not deviate from the broadband programme, including in rural areas, and we will go into measures that will allow better information accessibility in rural areas. So much for now. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Levič says that he has no supplementary question so that he can ask the Minister of Finance, Comrade Fabjan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u78	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I am asking the Minister of Finance about the matter of reorganisation of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Mr. Secretary, Dr. Marble! With the establishment of a single tax service in 1996, a reform of the tax administration started, which takes place at different stages and in different time zones. As I am aware, the purpose of the reorganisation of tax services is to establish a more efficient, rational and economic tax service, thereby establishing all taxes and compulsory taxes on the organisational provision of value added tax. On the basis of the written assurances of Director Durs received by certain mayors, the reorganisation should not affect taxpayers, i.e. craftsmen and entrepreneurs, as they are also expected to obtain all the necessary information at the individual tax office after the implementation reorganisation, as well as all the certificates on individual exposures, and that the exposures should become a high-quality service to all taxpayers. In areas where the reorganisation of tax offices has already been carried out, data from municipalities, as well as district trade chambers and craftsmen and entrepreneurs show that the practical effect is different from that claimed by Durs. The practical experience of the affected craftsmen and entrepreneurs has shown that the procedures for notifying the independent entrepreneur or to complement the notification that is now taking place through the exposure of the tax office take much longer than before the reorganisation, when the trader was able to do so on a tax basis. In cases where an individual craftsman or entrepreneur wishes to proceed quickly, he or she may do so in person at the seat of the tax office. It is also possible to obtain a tax certificate in person at the office of tax office. The harmonisation of the payment of taxes and other contributions should also be settled only at the tax office where the actual situation of the trader or entrepreneur does not correspond to the tax bookkeeping. That the warnings from areas where the organisation has already been carried out, as well as our expressed fear, are real, shows that the current Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia is mag. At the beginning of December 2002, Anton Rop appointed a special committee, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and representatives affected by the tax reform, on the basis of supervision, to identify the actual situation in relation to the warnings from practice. So I'm asking you the following questions: In view of all the above, I would like you to inform us of any measures you may take to ensure that the reorganisation of the tax service follows the purpose provided by the Ministry or Durs in several written documents. What conclusions have been reached by the special commission appointed by your predecessor, mag. Anton Rop. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Comrade Fabian. Please, Mr. Minister of Finance, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. As you mentioned, the objective of the whole reorganisation of the tax administration is rationality and thus efficiency. But not just that. Especially not at the expense of the taxpayers. The main objectives are that the debtor is dealt with in one place, which has not always been the case before. This is said to be the principle of not dividing work by taxes, but dividing by taxpayers, and that it is a uniform and consistent implementation of procedures for all taxpayers, which has not always been the case before. The third phase of the restructuring of Dursa represents the transfer of the bookkeeping of natural persons - including craftsmen and independent entrepreneurs - from the point of view to tax offices. At five out of fifteen, the reorganisation was carried out. Information was provided to the Ministry of Finance from the Chamber of Commerce on certain problems faced by taxpayers due to this reorganisation. Minister of Finance, as you mentioned, mag. Anton Rop temporarily suspended the reorganisation and appointed a special commission to analyse, present conclusions and proposals for amendments necessary to address these problems. The Commission is supposed to review three reorganised tax units, namely those that were essentially the most problematic. It preliminaryly notes that certain changes will be needed, including internal work organisations, in customer-to-client proceedings, probably even in legislation. As a result of these changes at the Ministry of Finance, the Commission will continue its work on 1 February because I had to make certain amendments to the Commission because, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, the Commission could only be composed of internal members but could not have external members. It will complete its work in February and will then follow appropriate changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u81	Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you. Comrade Rudolf Petan will question the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Defence. I'm also calling the Secretary of Defense in the hall. He's not sorry he wouldn't be here. Do you want to ask the Minister of Transport first, or How? [[...]] Please ask a question! Once again, the Secretary of Defense has been here, and please come to the hall. He's not sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! There's one question. But since it's an interdepartmental program, I've addressed it to the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Defense. If there's one here, he'll probably be able to answer. The question should probably be addressed to someone else, especially the Minister of Finance. Like I said, it's an interdepartmental program. It's about getting rescue equipment in the tunnels. Slovenia is building a highway cross - which is positive. There are tunnels within this cross. The length of these tunnels is longer each year. The construction of highways certainly increases road safety, flow. At the same time, the construction of tunnels increases the potential risk for road users in the event of a tunnel accident. In order to prevent this danger - that it is indeed a threat - the latest cases of major accidents in the tunnels in Austria have been shown - Slovenia has, as is correct, identified itself to obtain an appropriate need for resolution in the tunnels. Despite repeated calls for the purchase of appropriate equipment, this project has not been implemented. I am interested, and therefore I refer to these two ministries the question: How far are we today with this project? In fact, the length of the tunnel is longer every year. Of course, this also increases the potential risk of possible accidents. That's why I want to know: Is the agreement reached on the standardisation of the equipment required? How far is this project now? Can we count on this invitation, which I think is now published, to succeed or otherwise? Thanks for the answer!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. Which one of the ministers wants to answer? Please, Mr. Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Petan. In line with activities to improve road safety, a programme was adopted at the end of the 1990s to address this problem in longer road tunnels on the highway cross. With Dars, as you said, the Ministry of Defence has concluded a special agreement that foresees a successful phased purchase of six ambulances, in line with the dynamics of the construction of highway tunnels. The agreement also lays down training obligations and tunnels for which vehicles are provided. So, according to this agreement, Dars is supposed to be funding the acquisition. All other conditions, including vehicle procurement procedures, shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of that agreement, the first call for the gradual purchase of rescue vehicles in tunnels began in January 2000. Due to the audit request, the procedure was partially repealed by the State Audit Commission. Following the repeated invitation to tender applied for by four tenderers, the invitation to tender was assessed as unsuccessful because no tender met the conditions required. The second call began in November 2001 and envisaged the purchase of three vehicles in one year. This call also ended unsuccessfully in September 2002, when the State Audit Commission finally decided on the request of one of the tenderers. The third call is now under way - as you said - which began in November 2002. The entire file was completed. All the findings of the previous two tenders were taken into account. The invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal 24.1.2003. The tender is expected to be completed in the first half of this year, following a timetable for the execution of a public contract. In accordance with the course of the purchase of ambulances, the additions to the basic agreement also governed the relationship between the Ministry of Defence and Dars. Due to the progress of the construction of motorway tunnels, a certain delay has already occurred in the purchase of vehicles. In the Malence tunnel, the situation was resolved by the Ministry of Defence by giving the temporary competent fire department a dedicated rescue vehicle to be used in the tunnels of the educational centre. Training was conducted in July 2002. Appropriate preparations have been carried out, including for rescue in the tunnels of Zajesovnik and Ločnica. The training has already been carried out by units from Domžal, Sežana and Maribor. Units from Slovenian Konjice, Jesenic, Ajdovščina and Kopra will be expected to be trained in this year or next year. Vehicles to be deliberately provided for rescue in tunnels will be allocated to firefighting units designated for emergency interventions, in accordance with the Government Regulation on the organisation, equipment and training of protection, rescue and assistance forces. First, they will be given to those units responsible for the resolution in the already built tunnels, namely Slovenian Horsemen, Celje and so on. At the Ministry of Defence, we expect that the tender that is under way will be successful and that the envisaged ambulances will finally be delivered. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u85	Are you satisfied with the answer, Comrade Petan? [[You are.]] Thank you very much! The next question will be raised by colleague Bevk, the Minister for Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Slavka Gabra: I ask about the activities that the Ministry has prepared or is preparing in connection with the renovation of the Juri Vega Gymnasium and the new construction of the school gym in Idrija. In the 2003 State budget, 32 million tolars were provided for the renovation of the high school, which should be sufficient to prepare projects and obtain a building permit. In 2004, almost 100 million tolls to start actual renovations. The remainder of the necessary resources to complete an investment in high school amounting to 295 million tolars is part of the 2005 development plan of the country. This investment is also an integral part of the Education, Education and Science Financing Act 2003-2008. The high school in Idrija has a very famous past, since in literature it is referred to as the first national reality in Slovenia, in which the Slovenian language was the dominant or official language in the teaching process. In 2001, we celebrated her centenary. At that time, the Minister of Education, Dr. Lucija Čok, at the Idrija ceremony, gave her full support. This project has been recorded in the country's most important financial documents, it is said, in the 2003 and 2004 budgets. Otherwise, our efforts have been wearing a beard for a very long time, since at the Ministry of Education we turned to Idria in 1995, 1997 on urgent investments in secondary school space. During this time, we were also provided with all the support for the project by the then and current Minister, Dr. Slavko Gaber. In the coming years, the Ministry, in addition to the renovation of the high school, also had a new construction of the school gym. Minister of Education, Dr. Slavko Gabra, I ask: Have they already commissioned projects at the Ministry to renovate the Idrija High School? What will be the timetable for the renovation of the high school building and the possible new construction of the school gym? Thank you so much for the answer. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u87	Mr. Minister of Education, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! I can tell you that, according to our services, the project documentation is foreseen in 2003 and in early 2004 the start of the renovation of the high school premises you spoke about and of which we are also aware of the importance of the Ministry. As far as the school gym is concerned, it is not planned until 2008. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u89	Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Then we exhausted it. My colleague Vnučec wants to ask the Minister of the Environment a question. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I saw the minister in the hallway. Are we waiting for him or what? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u91	Please, just ask the question, the minister is obliged to be here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u92	My question concerns the area of safe construction. In particular, we know that under-laws and other regulations impose that a successful technical takeover is the criterion by which safe construction is assessed. Both for investors and for takers. I want to know: What if he later warned himself that things were not so good? A concrete example - which I also mentioned in writing - when a neighbourhood finds that constitutional rights that guarantee a healthy living environment are also at risk and that this is a fault of an operator or designer. However, these users are left to themselves. Yes, before proving what is true, they have to handle both lawsuits and - I will say - lawyers and other such services, which of course also cost. I therefore wonder: Does the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy have any elements here that can help in such cases, or does it also call for responsibility? What are the possible solutions to such problems when it can be concluded that the technical takeover was not just what it should have been? Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Digger, Minister of the Environment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, Member of the Grandchild! It's a case we've talked about a number of times. We also sent written answers to the question. Well. In particular, I can only say that this is a matter of civil law, a relationship between those who have entered into a sale contract. In such cases, the administrative authority may not, formally, nor may any of the parties involved impose that something must be done or done. Only the court can do that. If the said buyers fail to agree on or fail to make an appropriate agreement with the investor who sold them the wrong apartment, the first or most appropriate civil action will be the case. Unfortunately, this, apart from the agreement, is the only way to exercise the rights of affected owners of dwellings under contractual obligations. There is no legal basis for any possible interference between inspection services. Therefore, it would be most appropriate for the affected tenants or owners of the dwellings to seek appropriate legal assistance from the relevant expert, who will also file an action. Well. Notwithstanding the fact that we are not responsible or responsible for such legal aid, I can say that Article 458, for example, of the Bond Code makes it clear that the seller is responsible for the actual errors that the matter, in this case the apartment, has had when the danger has passed on to the buyer, whether or not it has been known to him. The seller is also responsible for those errors that occur after the danger has passed to the buyer, if they are due to the cause that existed before. Therefore, I also consider that the technical inspection carried out by this residential facility cannot be a reason why an investor as a seller in relation to the correction of deficiencies, as described by the affected tenants, would not be exempt from its obligations. This is to set up a state of security in the homes in question. However, if the person who built the apartments did not do so voluntarily, the owners of the apartments would have to force him to do so by means of a competent court. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u95	Satisfied with the answer? Can we move on? Yes, you can! Mr France Cukjati, Minister for Transport, has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. The question is addressed to Mr President, Minister of Transport: In fact, before the referendum on Slovenian Railways, you have informed us that if we reject the referendum initiative, we will save the resources to build 6 oncological institutes. Given that we do not need 6 oncological institutes and that the new institute is already quite well built and that even to build this part of the institute where the old stable is supposed to be moved, funds have already been provided. But the Minister of Health says he's run out of 3 billion funds. If I had 3 billion, the oncology institute would be completed in 2004 - thus guaranteed by the Minister of Health. Mr. Presecnik, I think we can give up 6 or 5 or, I'd say, 5.7 oncology institutes. But 0.3 of the oncology institute would still be able to fund from these funds, which we electorates have saved according to your words. I wouldn't quickly define myself as some sort of pre-election prank or anything. In fact, the Minister's word is something more serious than pre-election demomogy. And even if that word is written and signed. Given the necessity of building an oncology institute and the fact that Slovenian patients will be satisfied, as I said, with only one oncology institute. I ask you, and perhaps the Prime Minister: Have you already begun with administrative and organisational tasks for the construction of the Institute to be completed in the current year 2003, if not in 2004 – because we have already provided the voters with a referendum vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u98	By the way, I had already responded to your colleague, Master Petty Officer. Above all, in our emphasis and clarification to citizens and citizens or people invited to the referendum, we have tried to show that the Slovenian railways need changes. This is what we are trying to achieve or will try to achieve by means of an appropriate law on transformation and in the next phase of privatisation of the Slovenian Railways. But in the first place, we stress the transformation of Slovenian railways. It's about oncology institutes, etc. Only comparisons have been shown as to what could possibly happen if we leave the system as it is, that essentially goes down and creates losses. So much for the re-answer. As for the specific second part of the question - I think that colleague Dr Keber, Minister of Health, can explain where they are with activities, including those, as I said before, for the country of such important projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Here you go. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Somehow I'm not happy with that answer. In fact, you wrote: “With this money, we could build...” We could build it. And you didn't tell me why we won't. You didn't answer! However, since I am not aware of the priorities of funding from the state budget, and in cases where there is not enough funding and there is more need, I would also ask myself: Are there other priorities, indeed all other needs, before the oncology institute is built up? And if you don't answer that, then I can only conclude that you have adopted the customs of some ministers of this government who don't cheat with populism fraud or even with the daring deception of the electorate. In fact, the text that we all received at the expense of the taxes we all pay in the mailboxes is quite clear what is meant and what we could do with this money, if we have the political will to do so. If that's not the case, then I can only conclude that you are one of those ministers who, with the envy of ease and without any scruples, forgive me, lie directly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u102	I think you've already read what you want. I stressed earlier that we must not let events take place on Slovenian railways so far. In this case, of course, there would be matters written there to simply increase the loss. I can't agree that we lied or cheated. I think that it was clear to all citizens and citizens - or the majority - what we are trying to say with this. But I've been talking to the mags before. He also explained that the public opinion survey carried out around the new year clearly showed that Slovenians and Slovenians are not familiar with extremely complicated referendum issues. This has also been demonstrated in the debates. After all, we did not invent this referendum and therefore we had to explain to people what it means or speak only about this other side, but do not talk about what our efforts have been written on the front page and which, of course, we are also standing for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić has the floor next.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A bad year ago, I asked a question, one of a series of questions concerning Subregion, the settlement between Cola and Kalcas, because there was infrastructure "zero" at least at the time. [[Well, now it's a little better.]] . I was wondering when the road would cover from Podkraje to Cola at a distance of 4,200 meters. The answer was that due to technical preparations, the plans and so on could not start before October. Indeed, the asphalting began in October, so that the Minister kept his word on the deadline itself. However, the work is only done within two thirds, says 2,800 meters, 1,400 meters left; I don't know if I'm going to ask again this year as if I'm just here to see when this piece of road is going to be asphalted, and I'm going to be dealing with it for four years. I wonder: ‘ Will this year really be over? I also want to know: Why didn't it happen last year? Or I asked a question, and I got the answer that it's going to be asphalted. Not to mention that last year it was envisaged that the road would continue to be restored; from Cola to Predmej, to Lokov and I do not know where to go. It was a lot of writing in the rapporteur, and of all things practically nothing, at least as far as this work is concerned, which is why I would really like to ask when this thing is going to be over. I said that this is one of a series of questions because I asked Mr. Gantar about frequencies, because there's nothing there except Val 202 and the first programme of Slovenia that I'm not talking about phones that don't even work in that part of the length of maybe five kilometers. [[I'm talking to you.]] . Perhaps Mr. Gantar would answer that question. Otherwise, I expect what he'll say. He will say that 80% of Slovenia is covered with all media and that it will be when it is. Now, if it's still like this, then I don't even have to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you, but according to the Rules of Procedure you have announced one question, you have not announced another, so we will give the floor only to Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. So, Mr Mamić, of course you know the state budget, both for 2002 and for 2003. And according to this budget, a construction contract was concluded in 2002 and these reconstruction works were also carried out along this road. So it's the Kalce-Col Road, R-3-621/1412, 2,950 meters long. These were the works that were done. The remainder is still open: for the first time, there were no resources in the budget, and for the second time, the municipality of Ajdovščina has some projects to be implemented first, and then overlaying will be possible. It goes, I mean - as far as I have data - for one approach to the primary school in Cole, it's about construction of sewerage and some other utilities. So this is about the works that the municipality has to do, and then the state will provide the budget with the funds, and then the works will be completed. So, about two thirds, as you said in the introduction - I would be delighted if all the needs in the country after reconstruction were met at two thirds, so that the situation in many areas is even worse. However, according to the budget, works have also been carried out. At the next section - once again - because of some of the works that the congregation must perform, it is not even possible to complete part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mamic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u108	I'd like to replicate that a little bit to Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u109	No, you can't replicate, you can ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u110	It's an explanation. As far as the part is concerned. At primary school, there's an approach under the road, it's already over, on those 10 or I don't know how many meters is macadam, or even less. That's the whole problem. It's over. That way, it can start today. I'm a builder myself, I know these things, and I'm interested. I've heard that before among the people who say that this would have been done if everything was ready. It's just a deception to the public, that's all. I don't know if it grew on your cabbage or somewhere else, that's how people talk. But I know what I'm going to say to them on Saturday when I meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u111	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u112	I don't know exactly what people are saying. I know that I have also personally looked at this section years ago when I know it was a problem, and I have seen a lot of sections in Slovenia and I am as clear to how things are. You just mentioned, maybe - I have this as official information from maintenance about this approach. But you didn't answer or explain to me what happened to the sewer. I have official information that the municipality is preparing the construction of a sewer network on the road route, which should then be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Two questions to the two ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. On 12.11.2002 a decision was issued by the market inspector of the Republic of Slovenia unit Ptuj to certain citizens who are prohibited from selling flower arrangements. They also received a conclusion that they were obliged to pay a fine of $100,000 within three days. The appeal shall not delay the enforcement of the decision. This was obtained despite receiving from the administrative authority - they all had issued permits to the Department for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the Administrative Unit to carry out the complementary activity on the farm Article 68 of the Agricultural Act. Later, the administrative authority raised a question to the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Interior - 18.11. To date, there has been no response, except from the Ministry of Agriculture. People have been punished despite all the documents they've had. There is now a question of confidence in the decisions of the state authorities, because one of them issues a decision, and the other is punishing you. Secondly: the credibility of ministries in interpreting legislation. And: Who will be the one who will not only return those 100,000 tolars of the fine paid, but will cause material harm? I'd like to ask the Ministry of the Interior for an answer. At the same time, I would ask the Ministry of the Interior to answer me: When will administrative units be able to act in accordance with the legislation? In fact, since 2001, municipalities have been required to rent water for information offices. If the municipality did not pay for this, the information office could not function. This is what we pay "black" from the municipal budgets and we are forced by the mayors to commit crimes because of the state. My second question concerns Minister Gantar regarding the outcome of the referendum. Mr Minister, we have warned you already - in the middle of 1997, but certainly all the time that you are a minister - that returning to the telecommunications network in a way that you then presented in your marriage is simply unacceptable. The referendum turned out to be plebiscite that we were right and you were wrong. Since you have previously taught Members somehow, if they know what this is legitimate and legal, I agree that it is legal for you to be a minister. It would, of course, be politically responsible or morally politically or in another language, that, because of, in this case, objective, not only subjective, but objective responsibilities, they would also resign. After all, the question is: Why could you use so much tax money through the press and, of course, via Kocjančič TV Slovenia? In the case of the use of taxpayers' money, it would be hoped that the opposite party would also have the opportunity to obtain these funds and the same opportunity to address citizens and citizens. Of course, the Ministry is expected to do so only by word, but not by printing these callers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u116	I thank you for your question. I don't think it's the first one to show up. If a referendum were to take place on some substantive or material issues that were crucial or very important for the development of telecommunications, or if such a referendum had significantly affected those - or such - telecommunication and information policies, which I think are true and could no longer be implemented, of course I would have given up immediately. This referendum doesn't mean that. It only means how it will come from the privatisation of Telekom when it actually distributes or distributes the purchase. In this respect, it does not jeopardise the fundamental foundations and the policy of telecommunications. I have already mentioned that the information and broadband project will be carried out. Although I must be honest with you that we would be sorry - that we will remember these, let's say, 14 billion, but we have not deviated from these objectives. So from this point of view, I don't think there's any reason why I should give up. At the same time, I also think that, in fact, as a politician or as a minister, I sometimes also advocate a position that is not a majority, which is minority, if I think it is right. In terms of legitimacy, I think it is more questionable if a minister who adapts to the general flow, which, as we would say in the prongs, would be "blubbering with wolves" if he were to remove himself from the general opinion. No! No! Such an opinion, when I think I am right, I do not withdraw and try to defend it; if I succeed, one thing is if I fail is another. So this is my firm political definition. Next thing. As far as television is concerned, we all had the same time. In my computer, I keep a message from one of the press houses, a media house that said that our materials, ours -- I don't know, even if you want to -- talk, information, notices, don't want to publish because we just have to pay for it. It is therefore clear that we had to turn from the post office directly to households and spend $8.8 million for this, which burdens the item on material costs. At the same time, I would also like to point out, on the basis of the available data, that the association of beneficiaries also informed the municipalities, as well as the local communities, and asked them to do so in a local and local way by means of public means, - running a reverse-direction campaign, as led by the Ministry. I think that this is legitimate and in this case it is also a matter of using public funds. In any case, I could say that we all had exactly the same time on television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u118	Of course, we talked about legitimacy and legality. It would be purely normal and morally political to say that, after such a majority decision as the people have voted, you are leaving this position; this would be morally responsible. Mr. Minister, I ask you: When will you begin the privatisation process for Telekom? And I ask you: Will you not, after one year, resubmit changes to the law in that part that has now been voted on in the referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u119	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u120	So our views on morality and legitimacy differed, they were probably different before, and they will continue, so I probably don't have anything else to add here. When are we gonna start privatizing Telekom? In some ways, the definition of privatisation and the basic guidelines were already given last September. I estimate that the privatisation itself, once launched, would take about a year, probably another month. The world's telecommunications markets are not in such a position to do so. I must say that every two months, together with experts, we check the situation on the market, we check the options, but also the players, if I may say so, which would be involved in privatisation; this is not so at the moment. All Telekoms, if they can, today, as you know, are selling off certain assets, not buying off - if you're monitoring it. However, it is estimated that 2004 and, above all, 2005 will be the year when this process can be completed or carried out. Before that, it would be difficult to understand anyone who at current prices would want or sell property for which it is not necessary to sell it immediately. And continue whether or not I intend to change this referendum decision after a year - by no means! The decision was, of course, I will not propose such a decision - changes - and I don't think the government will either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you. Mrs Maria Ana Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I have a question for Mr. Minister Kebra, Minister of Health. On 28 February 2001, we spoke in the National Assembly on a proposal for a law on genetic technology. At that time, at the initiative of the LDS Group, a chapter on human genetics was also excluded. Since there were objections, the government then or the ministry promised to try to put a proposal into the legislative procedure, a separate human genetic law, by the end of 2001. It is now over in 2002, we are in 2003, and we know that there are great research in this area, there is a lot of new knowledge, and there is a huge legal hole in our legislative area. I ask you: When will you have this law prepared so that we can talk about this law here and thus protect those who, through this law, may be harmed even if it is not enforced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u124	Madam Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Indeed, the law on genetic technology has released the so-called "human chapter" for the expected reasons that otherwise the State Assembly will not be able to adopt the rest of the law in due time, as necessary, in order to adapt to the European Union. At that time, of course, we did not lose out on the legal basis, which, in a sufficiently efficient period of time, resolves certain issues of ethical nature and raises a new question every day. Allow me to say, however, that due to the rapid changes and also to the internationally changing ethical answers to these questions, this time among experts in this area - not at the Ministry - especially in the ethics committee of the Ministry of Health, the opinion is that it would be "punishment" to postpone this law. There are two fundamental reasons for this. Since this time at European Union level is creating 2 protocols, namely the Protocol on Human Genetics and the Protocol on the Protection of the embryo, which will be completed in about a year and a half, which will in fact provide a basis for changes or for defining new legislation in the European Union and possibly wider. So this is why we might be able to apply this protocol if, of course, we decided to wait. Of course, the reverse view of both protocols is that we hurry with our law and we find these two protocols ready and try to influence them. Another substantive reason - according to experts in this area - is that Slovenia, unlike several countries, is already equipped to respond to these fundamental challenges that disturb the public. For example, we have ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights on Biomedicine - this is the so-called 'Oviedic' Convention - which, of course, also prohibits the cloning of human beings. Finally, we also have a law on fertilisation with biomedical assistance, which explicitly allows these techniques exclusively for the purpose of giving birth to children and prohibits all other procedures, including, for example, human cloning. In spite of all this, our ministry, on these concerns, is "for" and "against" how quickly to get to law - we have put the law into the Ministry's programme for this year, and we will set up a committee on ethical issues, and then this commission may also answer this fundamental question, which I am also asking myself, how quickly to get the law before you to the National Assembly. In any case, we also have a body that is very effective at monitoring all events in this area, a State Commission on Medical Ethics, which, even with its membership in international bodies and also through public advertising, is actually adequately monitoring developments in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone! I would like to ask the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra. The change process or appointment of the new director of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance has been well under way. Following the first failed attempt in the National Assembly to obtain an agreement for a new term of office to date, the Director-General, Mr Franz Koshir, has reopened the procedure for appointing a new director. On 6 November last year, the Management Board of the Slovenian Health Insurance Company decided to propose to the Assembly of the Institute that Borut Miklavčič, a pensioner and former director of Sava power plants be appointed as the Director General of the Institute for the next term of office. From the media it was possible to understand that Mr Miklavčič was expected to receive a salary that exceeded 90% of the minister's salary before retirement. It was also possible to find out that, when the employment relationship was terminated, it was expected to receive a substantial over-expenditure. In short, it seems that Mr Miklavčič has been very lucky so far and has received a lot of controversial ratings without consequences. The media also reported that an unelected candidate for Director-General Emil Židan filed an action for violation of the appointment procedure. It proposes a provisional order to decide on the validity of the decision appointing the new Director-General of Health Insurance for procedural errors. The Insurance Assembly also expressed the view that the work programme of the proposed candidate was poor or inadequate in relation to the financial relationship in the field of health insurance. If this is true, I wonder: How can the Ministry support a candidate who has benefited from the contested ratings and who has no experience in the management of health insurance and who has submitted a bad programme for rehabilitation? Does this mean that the activation of the pension means that the ruling coalition or LDS does not have the appropriate personnel to apply for such a responsible job? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u127	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Messengers and Members! I could - and rightly so - say that the Ministry of Health has no role in the process of appointing the Director of the Health Insurance Institute; and even so. The autonomy of the institution, which in fact has a focal point only with Parliament, is highlighted. Parliament shall confirm or give its consent to the Director. However, since it is known that the Ministry of Health has supported this candidate's programme, allow me to answer at least some questions in my personal name rather than the Ministry's position, which is not really responsible. First of all, the very issue of voting. It is clear that this is in the hands of the Management Board of the Health Insurance Office and then the Assembly which confirmed this candidate. Our legal service is only known from the media for the substance of the complaint made by an unelected candidate and in view of the media report, what is the point, we believe, on the basis of legal pay, that the procedure was legal and that it respected the rules of procedure of the Management Board, which says that voting for the Director of the Institute must be public. Indeed, the question should be why the vote was not secret. At the same time, as we know, the proceedings are pending before the administrative court, and we are confident and believe that the administrative court will make an appropriate decision in this case, of course, far more substantive than our service. The second question is whether it is a pension or a pension. It should be said, however, that the invitation to tender is open and that only two candidates have submitted themselves to the invitation to tender. And it's just these two candidates. Of course we'd like to, let me just say that there would be a larger number of candidates. We, too, would like to see another place where more candidates could be chosen. But we have two candidates ahead of us, and at this point, of course, I don't see the question of what the pensioner is doing. I think that every citizen in this country can run for every job. The question of the amount of wages and emoluments is an area regulated by the former employers as director. The interpretations and reports and his statements are that these procedures were legal and legitimate - not only in defence or at least in a neutral narrative of this, I say that the same severance payments have been paid to some other workers in the same field of work and that the candidate has stated that half of the severance will be paid back. So, the cancellation, which will then be in the final amount when it remains due, will remain with it before the tax administration's application for the bad 4 million dollars, and not so much more than 20 million gross, which is not at all true. It was about 14 million gross. In the end, it's going to be a bad 4 million net. In this regard, it must be said that they also have the right to retirement in other jobs, and this is a one-off relief, which cannot be repeated in any other way. It is clear, however, that I myself, as Minister of Health, am asking about all the various discharges that occur at different points in this system. But I don't think that's a question that can be resolved with just one person. As far as the programme is concerned, let me say that, contrary to some opinions - because if the opinion in the assembly of the institution was dominant, namely, that the programme is poor, then this candidate would not be confirmed. So, the prevailing opinion was clearly that the program was good. We're joining in on this. The candidate programme makes sense of what is also the policy of the Ministry of Health in this area, and I would add that the candidate is not without experience in the field of health. After all, there was one mandate in the previous country, what today would be called the Minister of Health or the Secretary of the Secretariat for Health and Social Welfare, and in those days information about his great success is known; finally, he left the health institutions without loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you. Can we move on? Yes, you can. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! I am addressing the Minister of Health. At the beginning of the mandate, exactly two years from now, I asked a question about the construction of an oncology institute. At that time, the Secretary of State, Mr. Vrhunec, answered and highlighted, among other things, [[Quote]] that "in Slovenia there is no money available to invest in the Slovenian health system in such a way that it is worth it". I believe there will be no such joy soon, but I would like at least to sow some ray in the Slovenian health system, especially with regard to the oncology institute. The improbable situation was further exposed by the December flood. It's a good thing the ceiling didn't go down on the patients, and I wonder what else should be coming down on them to make any difference in this direction. The public secret is that not moving into H building is not a result of a lack of money, but of mutual speculation and the indecisiveness of those responsible and paid for decision-making. The December accident has really accelerated the resolution of the open wound of Slovenian health care and the awareness that conditions for the treatment and care of cancer patients would only rise to a decent level of human dignity. Mr. Minister, in your performances recently, you said, "We'll find the money." However, I think you'll have to make another decision. After 40 years of promise - somewhere you wrote that as a high school boy you have already collected money for the oncology institute instead of flowers - as a minister do what the Slovenian public rightly expects you to do in this mandate. I therefore ask you publicly: Can you ensure that the oncological institute is finally among the first priority investments of the current team of the Ministry of Health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Madam Member, for this question. I do not want to take advantage of this opportunity in some way to find out, however, that there is no way to do everything in the field of investment in health care and that there are therefore priorities. I can confirm that all this time we have been saying that we have two priorities in the first place, and this is a pediatric clinic and an oncology institute. Allow me to say that the law adopted by this National Assembly, which was extended until 2008, speaks - at current prices last year - of 90 billion necessary funds. This means that we could say: in many areas of Slovenian public health institutions there are shortcomings and there are bad situations, some similar to those at the oncology institute, and the issue of priority is, of course, constantly being raised. I would like to say and take this opportunity to say: an oncological institute, of course all these years, all these 40 years, is not just a barracks building that is now in public talk, but that it has acquired many new areas at that time. To shorten it for a short time. With the new H building, which will be housed in April this year and where patients will move from another poor building of the Cancer Institute, this is Schleimer’s home or deafness, the oncology institute has been working for patients at least 75% of the new or adapted area. In front of us, if I say so plainly, there's only a barracks. It's a barracks that's 250 meters away. We have set ourselves a priority plan for this barracks according to current plans in 2006. The flood that has taken place and which can also happen in the new building has, of course, raised questions about the value of repairing this building and we have found that it is not worth repairing if we move it out. That is why the response of our services is on technical pay: this building can be completed by the end of 2004. Let me also tell the Members that this building is already standing. This building is already under construction until phase III. and is called Building G. To complete it, we would need 8 billion in four years and we have also provided it in the budget; of course, half of it by 2004, half of it is left to budgets for further years. Because of the accident that happened at the Oncology Institute, we started a study. We have set up a joint group, a working group, including through the Ministry of Finance, which is exploring the possibility that this building could be given for next year. A report on how or if this is even possible and how this is possible will be provided as soon as possible. I believe that in 14 days at the latest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd like to ask you another question. After the Ombudsman had looked at the situation in the oncology department and was also appalled at the situation, he said that this was due to imbalanced priorities in the country and in the health sector, so it would make sense to establish criteria for the allocation of funds and the implementation of programmes. Do you agree? And if so: Are you considering establishing such criteria, and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u135	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u136	Of course, the Ombudsman did not say anything new in this area, precisely because of the existence of these criteria, they are an oncological institute and a pediatric clinic in the first place. And because of these criteria, we have had to push off a number of investments in the coming years. So we will probably have to continue to dissuade them in the future, triggering a number of very sensitive political issues In order to also make existing programmes, because this was essentially between the lines to be understood in the Ombudsman's proposal that existing investments worth around 8 billion - two years in a row, this year and next year - should be redistributed, it would mean that some of them should simply be postponed, and they have often been delayed. Among these investments are, of course, the pediatric clinic, the psychiatry of Sevnisko Pohorje, the surgery department in New Town. I'm not going to go any further, it's about investments that we don't think can be delayed anymore. That's how we follow the priorities. Well, if I hadn't followed, the situation would have been even worse. Allow me to say that we started this mandate with investment funds of about 2.5 billion per year. Compared to the 90 billion needed by 2008, this imbalance is obvious. At that time, during this term, the government acknowledged the need for greater investment and this year, after the good two years of this government, we are now at 8 billion, which means that we have actually doubled and nominally almost tripled the funds. This means that we have substantially increased the funds. Of course, the needs are even greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! My question touches on the problems of inconsistencies and problems related to the transport of buildings in connection with the Institute of Protected Farms. It is true that, following the entry into force of the Act on the Succession of Agricultural Economies, which resulted in the fact that a certain farm was declared protected by the administrative authority, the local communities have adopted a series of spatial plans that declared parts of these protected farms as building plots or by which changes in the destination of agricultural land, including in parts of these protected farms, are being made. I have decided to ask you a question, Your Honor, because it is stuck in an attempt to change the ownership of the land book because it is linked to the prohibition resulting from this adopted act on the protection of farms. I ask you: How do you plan to solve this problem? The fact is that this problem is present, and this is increasingly so, in proportion to the multitude of accepted spatial plans of the municipalities. What changes or instructions do "your land books" have in traffic courts or in trade records in these properties within the Institute of Protected Farms? The fact is that this is a major problem in the implementation of spatial plans, which we are facing mainly in areas where there are several protected farms and where the realisation of spatial plans or certain investments is due to the changed destination of agricultural land - that it is virtually impossible to approach the implementation of such spatial plans. So please try to answer me: In what way - if you are already thinking about how to solve this problem with the transport of building land that are within protected farms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u140	Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen! The question raised is actually new at least for our ministry, perhaps because the issue you are referring to or the whole issue is related to a series of regulations. Only a small part of these belong to the responsibility of our ministry. It is also linked to the functioning of several state authorities with instructions issued mainly by certain other ministries. In order not to give only half-answers or answers that do not actually fully address this issue and not even provide a comprehensive solution, it is particularly important that I promise to study, in cooperation with other ministries concerned, in cooperation with the District Courts that carry out the procedures related to the Land Book and possibly also with certain departments of administrative units, where the problem is where the complications of possible non-compliance occur, either as regards the rules or as regards practice On this basis, I can first of all promise a comprehensive response and I am counting that this problem can be adequately addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Two questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u142	Thank you. First question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Marble. The Property Change Act, which was adopted last year, is awaiting a decision by the Constitutional Court concerning constitutional complaints. My question is: Is the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Minister, under your leadership, still representing the same positions regarding the implementation of the law on the realisation of insurance companies? According to some information, the Ministry of Finance is expected to amend the implementation strategy to lay down legislation and also to implement the requirements of the Insurance Supervisory Agency relating to the duties of Insurance Officer Triglav in relation to remedying the irregularities that have taken place there. Is it true that the Ministry is not in a hurry and is now more inclined to the views and appetites of the management structure regarding the share of the unspecified capital of the insurance undertaking? Is there a silent political consensus to buy time to regulate the situation in the Triglav Insurance Company, which objectively means damage to undeclared social capital in favour of equity? On the contrary, this is illustrated by the re-locating of Mrs Milojka Kolar from the Insurance Office of Triglav to the post of State Secretary, where she was Secretary of State for a long period of 2000 and she has much to do with the fact that the Insurance Law has not been passed for ten years that the Ministry of Finance was delayed at the time of the adoption of the law, which was implicitly confirmed by the current Prime Minister, Mr Rop. The symbolic message of such a human resources solution is unequivocal and also means the rehabilitation of the conduct of the former Director of Insurance Triglav, whose closest co-worker was Mrs Kolarjeva. Of course, this is about extraordinary financial interests, where billions of money will land: in government hands or in private, managers. It's about the financial moguls who are ordering the state. And a second question to the Minister for the Environment. I am asking the Minister of the Environment and Space about the transmission of transport routes for electricity exports by Eles 'under the table' without a call for tender. Covering such behaviour by the government demonstrates the great interests and involvement of high-level government officials, businesses and conduct, which objectively undermines the state budget in favour of certain individuals. That corruption is behind, the statement by Dr. Golob, former Secretary of State for Energy for Evening 24.1., which says that it is a billion dollars' worth, says a thousand million dollars! And it's going on. [[Quote]] "For a billion tolars, it's possible to buy a lot of people, and people are willing to do a lot of things for that kind of money." In order to conceal collective conduct and avoid legal provisions, the government has also done a number of things this time, apparently. It thus refers to experimental commercial capacities not known by energy legislation and also violates the rules of the European Union. In this way, the public broadcasting procedure shall be avoided. Because of clear indications of corruption, I ask the government: Did she request a criminal investigation? I also request a written answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Dear Member, they do not hold this information in any way. The Ministry of Finance has not changed the policy on the ownership of insurance companies and, in relation to the determination of undeclared capital in the Insurance Office of Triglav, in the law itself, the solution which I forwarded to the former Minister of Finance in my personal opinion when he applied for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek wishes to complete his reply to Minister Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u146	Mr Minister, look, Mr Rob, when he was a finance minister, he did not take back the former secretary of state, who was at the time at the Triglav Insurance Office. And, as I have already mentioned, it has in some ways confirmed that it has contributed greatly to the fact that there has been no law for ten years, that there has actually been a delay at the Ministry - and another state secretary - and now such a human resources solution. I don't know, just make it a little clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Milojka Kolar covers the tax area, while the insurance sector is covered by the secretary of mag. Silk. As I mentioned earlier, this law has this solution as I have suggested, and of course I stand for such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Before Mr Kopač's reply, only an explanation. Oral questions, oral answers; written questions, written answers. These are the rules of the game in this National Assembly and I ask you to understand. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Member of the Commission, I hope that I have fully understood the question which was not very precise, but you have asked more or stated individual arguments, what was it that Eles was violating in the division of transmission capacity, if I have understood correctly. Look! Well, newspaper articles are a thing with which, I don't think, there's any point in polarizing here in this room, because after all, Parliament is a more serious institution than someone who would have replicated on such plausible stories. But if I try to briefly explain the division of cross-border transmission capacity, let me first say that the physical flow from Slovenia to Italy has an average flow of over a thousand megawatts [[It's a physical flow.]] . We have long, Slovenia - before I was a minister myself - has long wanted to get the release from Italy of a greater amount of commercial capacity, i.e. only 380 megawatts. In practice, this means that the truth flows through thousands of megawatts and 380 megawatts are accounted for. And all this difference means the profit that the Swiss, the French - in short, everyone else, the Austrians not, but the other borders of the Republic of Italy. Well, that is why we are trying to increase the transmission capacity at this border, because, after all, the Italian market is very profitable and is very interesting for electricity exports. Well, Italy does not agree to this because it should reduce the amount of commercial cross-border capacity with Switzerland and France, and it does not want to do so. That's why we didn't make it through that request. The insistence of Slovenia and, finally, the electricity consumers themselves in Italy were, however, the Italian authorities, which allocate capacity, transmission capacity, and I think, on 14 December last year, they only approved an increase of 100 megawatts in these transmission capacities, but in a way that they distributed all 100 megawatts on their own. Of course, the reaction from our side was that if they divided themselves, but then we did not agree to it and these additional capacities would not, and then the meeting, which was held in Rome on 24 December, the representatives of Eles were there, negotiated, and the final withdrawal was that, on 30 December last year, the Italian authorities announced that they were agreeing to share their capacities in parity - that is 50% of Slovenia 50% of Italy; they approved these additional capacities and did not threaten or even threaten them, but it was only conceivable that if they did not respond by midnight 31.12., then of course with these additional cross-border capacities there would be nothing. These additional cross-border capacities, however, are the capacity to dig up security reserves. The security reserve available to Eles as a transmission network operator is such that it is truly too rich. It could be smaller, but of course the Italian authorities did not agree until, as I said, 14 December. Therefore, they would reduce that part of the security reserve that is needed, with permanent availability and allow to allocate to a certain extent a part of this space as an intermittent transmission capacity - one that can be interrupted every day. If we could make it through such an assignment [[End warning sign]] - if you allow, just a little bit more - if we succeed with this, it would be very good, because if this regime were to last for one year, then permanent transmission capacity could be increased and this would be of great benefit to Slovenian electricity producers. Well, just to conclude, Elles has every right to share what he knows and knows. He had time from 30 to 31 December, and he took advantage of that time with what he had at his disposal at that moment, the allocation of that capacity was, in any event, irrevocable. At the Ministry, we have asked them to complete the rules on the allocation of cross-border capacities, which do not regulate these issues at all - I can say that for the time being it is an unregulated area - and they will complement this regulation and are expected to complete it in early February and will then be specifically regulated. In any event, no harm has been done, on the contrary: great benefits have been made. For Eles with the transit of this electricity, because it is a transit, of course also strongly earned and it was done primarily in accordance with the rules of ETSO, which Eles is a member of, because if it did not comply with these rules, Eles would of course also receive an appropriate reminder or punishment in this international organisation. So it was all non-problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u151	Mr Jerovšek, complete your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u152	Mr. Minister, you said I was incomprehensible, but you made it difficult and did not respond clearly. But I agree with you that a great deal has been done, but for some individuals. Mr Golob is aware of the fact that he had previously marketed these things and cited a billion profits in such a business, and you did not turn it over to the course or at least publicly, because these services in Eles did not try to bring part of this money into the state treasury. That wasn't done, and that's why you needed such a long answer that you got people confused. It's perfectly clear because it didn't happen for the first time. Even before the appointment of the Bajuk government. By doing so, the Bajuk government cut off the business, and then you fixed the return of all those who serve as mediators in these matters. It is therefore impossible to avoid the answer and also public affairs. It works under the table, that's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u154	The problem is too complicated to explain in two minutes and I'm sorry, I just can't make it any shorter. However, the fact is that once this Regulation has been amended, which I myself have requested, an appropriate procedure will be published where all those who so wish can apply. However, I understand the statements made not only by the former Secretary of State, who is now an electrician, but also by some other traders, that they are dissatisfied because they did not themselves come to this business, although they all had the opportunity, but, I don't know why, they didn't apply. Everyone had the opportunity to play a role at exactly the same time as some, and then, of course, they also came to these capacities. The fact is that any such writing or such statements must be viewed through the optics of the private interest of the one who says so. The State and Eles, which is a public service, are here to protect the public's interests or public benefit, and I hope to continue to prove it with open accounts. However, those who make such statements and who are then an inspiration to you for parliamentary questions have a purely private interest and still need to be made aware.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Janez Cimperman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am addressing my question to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Mr Slavko Gabr. Last winter, a jumper crashed under Poncemi, and I think we called her Bloudk's giant, who was a kind of decade-old national pride, and in a moment, she became a national disgrace. As I am aware, recovery has not yet taken place, so I ask you, Mr Minister: Will the Ministry of Education and Sport participate in the rehabilitation of this national disgrace, and how?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ambassador! The shortest thing to say is that the Ministry will be involved in the rehabilitation or re-establishment of this Jumper, within the means we have at our disposal, arrangements are being made to use the municipality of Kranjska Gora this year for 20 million dollars directly for this Jumper and another 4 million for the upgrade or renovation of the Giant. However, let me say that we are waiting for the building permit and to regulate the ownership relations associated with this. It may not be too much to say and to point out that the municipality of Kranjska Gora, which was in accordance with the law on the ownership of sports facilities of the owner of this facility, handed over this facility in 2001 to the Sports Company Planica. The Planica Sports Company is currently obtaining a building permit. And you know we can't allocate funds for any investment without these building permits being obtained. In doing so, we will try to help them to the best of our ability, but at the same time we will try, in agreement with the municipality of Kranjska Gora, to enable Kranjska Gora as a municipality to book as a co-owner of this facility, because it seems to me that she has allowed the transfer of this important facility from her property to her own societies without having to. We will also try to achieve the incorporation of the existing deposit after the state ownership of the property into this facility of 60 million on behalf of the municipality of Kranjska Gora. We are doing all this in order to increase the management share of this municipality at this facility, in addition to in order to manage it in the national interest or, rather, in the public interest of this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Cimperman.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u160	Is it anticipated that recovery will be completed?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you. It's a difficult question for me to answer. The information we have on the site of the investor is that within a month they should have acquired a building permit. So, then, as far as we're concerned, the work is about to begin. Of course, we set two conditions: the acquisition of ownership shares by the municipality of Kranjska Gora on the property, because we ourselves will devote our resources to the municipality of Kranjska Gora, so that it will acquire a greater share and thus manage this property properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Last one, Mr. Bogomir Zampernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Thank you to my colleague from Scotland for his observation that they will be the last. I would like to ask Mr Gabra if he remains, because the question I have for Mr Kopač will be a short one and I would also like a brief answer to take advantage of Mr Gabra's presence on your part as well. Let me start at Mr. Gabr's. Some representatives of air carriers asked me to ask: What about the production of a professional standard for the pilot's profession? This is supposed to be for a long time to be grinding around state offices and asking you to answer; whatever response is good for them, just let it be. However, I am asking Mr Kopač a question regarding the removal of the consequences of the flood. In November 2000, it was the 10th anniversary of the catastrophic flood in 1990 in the Upper Savin Valley and in the entire Savinja basin. It was the only time that the floods in 2000 were also the result of unscanned wounds from 1990. I hope you don't need to flood again. The municipalities were trying as hard as they could - or we could, when I was still in the mayor's office - and with my own resources regulated the watercourses that we know are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space. A specific example of the municipality of Solčava, I think the estimated value of the damage was around 700 million tolars, while the municipality has an annual budget somewhere below 100 million tolars. Clearly, these rehabilitations will not be able to be carried by the congregation itself, so I ask the Minister for Environment and Space: When will the debts of these wounds be rectified? Because otherwise a disaster can happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u165	So, there's only one question that I've mentioned, but probably there's been some kind of disagreement, I don't know. Maybe we can start with Mr. Gabr if he can answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u166	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Member, if you'll excuse me, I would hold back the opportunity to give a written answer to this question. I have to admit, I can't answer just like that, but I'm going to provide you with an answer, and I hope it's good for those who ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. In November 2000, the floods mentioned by Mr Zamernik, and according to the Law on Public Finance, the then government on 9 November 2000 also distributed 200 million to municipalities, namely Solčava, Montenegro in Koroškem, Tržič, Bohinj, Jesenice, Duplek and Brda, to provide normal basic living conditions. Of course, this amount is certainly not sufficient to remedy everything that was damaged at the time of these floods, but the Public Finance Act does not allow for the sharing of any appropriations of the budget reserve, for example in 2001 or 2002 or 2003, for a fundamental accident that occurred, for example, in 2000. There is no such legal basis and therefore no allocation of funds from the reserve can be expected for these purposes. The fact is that part of these injuries, which are not remedied, will have to be remedied through regular maintenance work from regular budget resources, which is, after all, the programme of the so-called water fund. But surely with its time dynamics you will not be satisfied, I hope to say this in advance, because the volume of resources is quite limited, although the dynamics expected over the years are such that these funds are increasing significantly, but we have invested so little in Slovenian leadership in the ten years that the consequences of this will not be able to be eliminated for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Can we conclude with questions and answers? Please, Mr. Viceroy. Complements of the answer, therefore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u170	I thank the Minister despite the unsatisfactory response, so of course you correctly assume that such a response is difficult for a person to please. I hope that you, too, as Minister, are not satisfied with what you have said and that you will advocate that the funds to remedy this will increase in the budget. However, this is what you suggest or your ministry proposes the amount of these funds. Nevertheless, I would ask you to help the congregation out of trouble. Then, in 2000, she was hit by a bridge. For recovery, it needs to rebuild this bridge -- I don't know, I'll say, 100 million. The bridge that stood is the so-called Ponton Bridge. It was loaned to the Ministry of Defence by a loan agreement. This Treaty is now being terminated - it has been extended for the third time. The Ministry of Defence is demanding this bridge back in order, otherwise, to take it down, and this bridge is gone. The Ministry of the Environment and Space, or the Commission for the Recovery of the Flood, has calculations as to how much such a bridge would cost, but nothing more. How could the Ministry of the Environment and Space now help such a congregation out of mystery?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u172	I hope I've made myself quite clear before, although I say again, you probably won't be pleased with what I'm about to say again. If I am not mistaken, it is a bridge on a local road, i.e. a bridge under the jurisdiction of the municipality, not a state, a road department or a ministry of transport in general. So if we wanted to finance it from the means of remedying the consequences of a natural disaster, which I understood from the intensity of your question, then we would need a basis in some law. For the funds of the reserve shall be drawn up only in accordance with the law on public finances, in accordance with no other law. Even if the funds of the reserve exist and even if there was a great will to get these funds contaminated, we do not have such a legal basis. Even if the Minister of the Environment, Space and Energy wanted to do so, the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance should have refused to do so because there is no legal basis for this. So, through the use of the budget reserve funds, I think that, at least in the current financial year of the year in which we are now, such a solution cannot be sought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-27-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. With this, we've exhausted the list of everyone who wanted to ask the government anything. I thank the ministers for their presence. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
