ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jože Ašič, Anton Butolen, Andrej Fabjan, Roman Jakič, Janez Janša, Ivan Kebrič, Branko Kelemina, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec and Franz Pukšič. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON LEGISLATIVE RELATIONSHIP AND ASSOCIATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represented here by Alenka Kovšca, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, and Mrs Ljubica Šalinger, Counsellor. I very much welcome and also give the floor first to the representative of the government to further explain the bill. Please, Mrs. Kovšca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers, respectable! By amending and supplementing the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the proposer shall remove the non-compliance of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as established in the constitutional assessment procedure, when the Constitutional Court decided in April this year that the first paragraph of Article 105 and the first and second paragraphs of Article 114 are in violation of the Constitution and that the first paragraph of Article 106 and the fourth paragraphs of Article 114 are repealed. Within the time limit imposed by the court, the proposed amendments and additions were prepared by the law. With the amendment, the proposer shall also coordinate the law on marriage and family relations with the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child. At the same time, he incorporated in the proposal the requirements of the European Convention on Child Relations with Parents and Other Persons. So far, in cases where parents were unable to agree on the protection and upbringing of children, the court has ruled on this issue. The draft law also transposes the decision on contacts and survival from social work centres to the courts. What is more abundant in changing and supplementing the law is the fact that the child and its benefits are at the forefront. The benefit of the child was therefore a fundamental guide for both parents and public authorities and holders of public authority. The law also clearly defines or specifies the legal standard for the benefit of the child. In proceedings, the child shall also have the right to express his or her opinion, either by himself or by a person chosen and trusted by him or her, to a so-called confidential person, which is an additional procedural right under the European Convention on the Rights of the Child. The new amendments and the amendment of the law are also a possibility of joint education and child protection. In addition to the fact that trust in common education and protection is a new quality that makes it unnecessary for neither the child nor the parent to decide on whom to be entrusted, this change has been made mainly by the fact that it is in family relations, despite the fact that the marriage community is falling apart, in terms of children's rights and benefits, it is important that both parents are responsible for the child and that all essential issues concerning the child can be discussed and coordinated on a daily basis. The exercise of parental rights is also defined as the same responsibility of both parents, even if they do not live together. Disputes in the exercise of parental rights will be decided by the court in an unfair proceeding. When liaising between a child and a parent and others, it is essential that contact first be a child’s benefit. Parents are obliged to allow and do everything they can to avoid alienation. If contact is not for the benefit of the child, it is possible to limit it, to exercise it under control or even to prohibit it. It was because of the practice and attempts to manipulate children that the legislator was also building a re-examination option to whom the child should be entrusted with education and care, especially to a parent who is more cooperative if it is in the child's best interests. The special novelty of the law is also the right to have contact with other persons, if they are linked and related to them in the family. These persons are mainly old parents, foster parents, brothers, sisters, half brothers, half sisters. Of course, the child has this right in cases where it is in his or her best interests. Where, despite the family connection of children to these persons, the child’s benefit will be determined in the process and the child’s opinion will be obtained. It is important to mention in the area of amendments and additions to the law, which also governs the area of subsistence, in addition to the transfer of jurisdiction to the court of decision, that the law specifies more precisely what all maintenance involves. A clear sequence of maintenance beneficiaries is defined. Maintenance is also able to be concluded before notary. With the solutions offered by the proposal for amendments and additions, together with the proposal to amend the guarantee law and the maintenance fund, the government has addressed the most important issues in the area of subsistence, which will better protect the benefits of the beneficiaries. For the purposes of implementing the law, funds are provided for 12 new judges in the District Courts and for four in higher courts and also for the employment of the necessary judicial staff. The applicant assesses that the amendment and amendment of the law is prepared in such a way as to enable not only the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, but also the way in which new quality is involved in the decision-making and assessment of family matters in the area of communication and survival. In particular, we stress the fact that in all procedures it is ensured that the child’s benefit is assessed first, with a special position of opinion expressed by the child alone or by another person who trusts him. We propose that Members of Parliament should be supported by amending and supplementing the law as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy and disabled persons as the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, Members, representatives of the government, welcome you! At its 39th regular session 4.12., the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons addressed the draft law. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the legislative and legal service, representatives of the Community of Centres for Social Work and of the Slovenian Judicial Society participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Slovenian Judicial Society, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council for Social Activities, the company Ostrzek, Mr Dari Šilc and Mrs Darinka Pavlič. In its written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service recalls the application of the Constitutional Court’s decision under Article 44 of the Law. It points out from a legal point of view that the individual articles of the draft law are not in line with the existing legal order. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service made its comments to Articles 1, 7, 9, 11, 13, 16,18, 19, 27, 32, 33, 41, 42 and 44. The amendments were tabled by four parliamentary groups, together with the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, at 1, 3, 7, 9, 11, 14, 16, 18, 19, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 41, 42 and 44, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members at 26, 30, 32, 33, 38 and 44, the Member of France Cukati at 13, 19, 44 and fellow Member Drobnic at 18 and 19. The discussion on Article 3 and the amendments tabled to this Article laid down the view that a more detailed procedure should be laid down in the amended proposal for a court decision on the upbringing and protection of the child following the dissolution of the family. The members of the committee adopted an amendment which was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the judiciary and governed by the jurisdiction of the courts to decide in a fair case when the legal dispute was resolved. In the debate on Articles 13 and 14 of the bill, the members of the committee felt that it would be necessary to leave the word "indemnity" and "worst" in the dictates of the law itself, since any offence against the debtor of the child or the parent of the debtor should be sufficient to refuse the maintenance requirement. In the debate on Article 16 of the Law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the problem of the conclusion of a judicial settlement in the event that the parents agree on the protection and upbringing of children. In his view, a judicial settlement shall be concluded in accordance with the provisions of the Judicial Procedure Act in the course of the proceedings before a judicial court. The broad debate also took place at the time of Article 18 where it was suggested that personal contacts between children and parents should be defined. The broader debate also took place on the 31st and 32nd articles, where proposals for amendments to the Committee were tabled and which were not adopted by the Committee. In the debate on Article 30 and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted its amendment and the other amendments remained irrelevant. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to the four groups of Members to a whole series of articles, followed by amendments by the MEP. The summary of Article 19 and the Member of Dr. Tsukati to Articles 13 and 44. The amendment of the four coalition groups to Articles 18 and 30 and the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to Articles 32 and 38 has not been adopted. The amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 33 and 34 and of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group to Articles 33 and 34 have become irrelevant. The Committee also drafted its amendments to Articles 14, 17, 18, 19, 33. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles. I must remind you that there has been a minor error in the drafting of the report and the amended proposal. It was overlooked that one amendment had not been adopted and that correction was also submitted to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, New Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u6	Well-known, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government and others present! We proposed amendments to the Marriage and Family Relations Act in Nova Slovenije a year ago to correct those urgent things in the law that make it difficult to contact children and parents, divorced parents, regulate maintenance, regulate contacts and so on. The government has now drawn up on the basis, at least as provided, of the fact that a number of other things need to be regulated and that this law will regulate these changes more comprehensively. When we look at these changes, we see that there is not really anything new. Except in the area of the regulation of maintenance rights or maintenance obligations. So the key area of regulation of this law is contacts between divorced spouses and the regulation of parent-child contacts, the regulation of parental rights and the regulation of maintenance. There was still, in the marriage, an old expression, the one from the previous system, apparently there was no time to prepare and change it. We are pleased, however, that the government has found solutions that we have also proposed, namely the protection of the child's benefit, which is a priority, then the power to decide on the allocation of children from social work centres to the courts, i.e. that civil justice relations are decided in a fair trial and not in an unfair and administrative procedure. For this was a reason for many difficulties in assigning children and exercising parental rights, regulating contacts, regular contacts, and both parental rights and duties in the event of divorce. Thus, parental rights continue in divorce. The Ministry also introduced the term "trial possibility of a child's confidant" in the event that the child cannot fully express his or her will, his or her interest in the relationship between divorced spouses. While maintenance agreements may be a welcome process option, it is not appropriate to make these maintenance agreements a condition for the annulment of the marriage or for the divorce of the marriage. Arrangements for regular contact with brothers, sisters, half brothers, half sisters, and elderly parents. This is an important novelty, an important addition to the regulation of contacts, but we believe in Nova Slovenije that it is not appropriate for all these persons to be recognized as legitimate, active legitimacy for the exercise of rights. On the other hand, the right of the child to establish these contacts. Active legitimacy should only be provided for parents. And then in their contacts or in their family district, these parents also provide other contacts. This could also bring a lot of complications to the court. These amendments, which have been submitted, certainly do not constitute a suspension of the Centres for Social Work and other professional institutions in this area, but rather to place themselves in the right place to carry out professional, advisory and similar tasks, in order to preserve the marriage relationship, or to ensure that those who have come to the point of insufferability become durable and, above all, to ensure the benefit of children. On the other hand, this proposal by the Government [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] He didn't exactly settle what's wrong with arranging regular personal contacts. [[...]] We have proposed this in New Slovenia, this minimum when a child is unable to express his or her interest, wishes or opinions. Apparently, it is trying to bring a new philosophy of looking at and developing a child through the side door, that one parent is sufficient for its healthy development instead of both. And for some, the family is obviously an institution that survives.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič, Young People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We all agree with the saying that children are our greatest wealth. And like other people, they have their rights, only that we adults have to take care of their respect. Such rights are also described in the Convention, which has also been ratified by our country, and it is therefore right to do our utmost to ensure that these rights are also respected. This law also lays down legal frameworks for respect and compliance. Divorce and separation of parents are certainly one of the most traumatic events that can happen for a child. The right of children to both parents is therefore often violated in these cases. In case the parents didn't make contact with the baby. Therefore, the introduction of the possibility of joint protection and child rearing, in so far as parents agree, is an even more welcome novelty. It is also beneficial for the child to remain in contact with other persons with whom he is related to his family - his parents, brothers, sisters, and others. The competence to decide on the contact and survival of children is transferred by this law from the social work centres to the courts, which we consider to be positive. By establishing family courts that will be linked to all experts in this sensitive area, with social work centres and with all the disputes involved, we believe that the best possible solutions can be achieved for everyone and for the best benefit of the child. Most importantly, these courts will also take into account the views of children, who will be able to have their own trustees. In addition to all intangible goods, each child needs material goods for his or her smooth growth and development. The maintenance area in Slovenia is quite disorderly. Many disputes between parents have also been transferred from verbal struggles to non-payment of subsistence, which, of course, is the greatest harm to children, for one parent is certainly unable to offer such material comfort to a child as if both parents were to provide for it. That is why we particularly support these amendments to the law, which accurately determine the level of maintenance, permanent maintenance obligations and the coordination of those alone.We are aware that total material equality between children will never be achieved, but it seems unfair that some children, not by their own fault, are deprived. In this context, it is an amendment to the law by which parents are obliged to spend their child during schooling until the age of 16. Education is becoming more expensive year after year and children will certainly not be able to think of it without the help of their parents. We should not be blinded by this law to eliminate all the injustices of children who do not live in two - parent families, but we believe that this law will bring significant improvements in the protection of children’s rights and benefits. This is why we will support the proposal for a law in the Youth Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u10	Good morning, Your Honor. It must be hard for parents to divorce each time, but usually the child brings the shortest end. He also loves both his father and his mother after the divorce, and somehow he's thrown into some schizophrenicly fragmented situation. And this is usually a fact that parents and the environment do not respect, namely, the fact that the child still loves both. And that he needs both for his normal life, to prevent pessimism, to facilitate the future optimism he will need in his life. So for your own personal development. And it is certainly the state that must, in law, protect this child's right to maintain a relationship with both parents in order to preserve, in fact, the fruits of the one who was born at the time of connection to both parents. The law here in three things interferes with this area. First of all, it states that the majority of cases are slightly more involved in the court rather than in the social work centre. Of course, this court must always listen to the opinion of the Centre and also to the opinion of the child if it is already able to express its opinion. And here the law follows the request of the Constitutional Court. We welcome this approach, because in many cases it is only the Court that can objectively establish a relationship or some judicial practice and some system unification. However, we fear judicial backlogs, although it is said that the courts should deal with these cases as a matter of priority. The second issue he solves is subsistence. This is also a very painful question for many. This is about avoiding maintenance, and it is also about a vague amount of maintenance and also about a certain way of playing and a system of revenge for one spouse over another by rejecting the obligation to pay maintenance. It also seeks to regulate this law, but again in a way that is actually our own legislation, in a way where it is not definitively stated in full clarity, in concrete terms, very easily, what kind of maintenance, the starting level of maintenance, which is to be enforced, and by what procedure this is to be done. We are advocating a system of simple approaches, a system through which maintenance levels are already known. And maintenance is supposed to start automatically to be demanded and court proceedings are only to be resolved subsequently. It is a pity that maintenance is not defined in the amount of livestock that is now defined as an automatic sum. If we were to adopt such an approach, we could say that breeding is the original cost of maintenance, which is then covered by each individual parent. The most sensitive issue, however, is contact with single parents, relatives, brothers, and sisters. And that's what we've been trying to fix with the amendment, to complement this solution to the problem, and, of course, what we're going to say later on. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the handling of amendments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Silva Crnugelj, United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Secretary of State Alenka Kovšca, well-known colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on marriage and family relations, with amendments aimed at ensuring the protection of the child's benefits in accordance with international instruments relating to the protection, education, contacts and survival of children, as Slovenia has adopted a document at the UN General Assembly, the Council, to the extent that it represents a comprehensive but phased project. A document setting out the specific objectives of improving the situation of children in the coming decades. It is good to recall that in 1992 Slovenia, through a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia and a succession notification act, succeeded the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, an international instrument which recognises the situation of the child in the legal system, in society and in the country. Despite certain shortcomings in the exercise of children's rights in Slovenia, we have aligned the rights of children with the Convention since many legislative acts and measures have been adopted to improve the situation of children in Slovenian society. This area is extremely difficult and at the same time very difficult and risky. It is intended to provide every child with social security, access to social services, protection against exploitation, neglect and abuse, as well as direct inclusion in life. This also means the realization of their fundamental, civil, political, social rights and their inclusion in the social community. During the period 1990-2000 Slovenia was able to implement most of the measures taken at the World Summit, but we can also see that the situation of children has improved dramatically during this period, and we can also see that there are some weaknesses in this area. This shows the type of data, statistics and others, such as data on child mortality, as this is smaller. We have a very low rate of HIV infection, the number of abortions is decreasing, we have introduced uniform criteria for children's supplements, they receive more than 81% of children and, most importantly, the proportion of children with incomplete or incomplete education falls. The present law also eliminates the non-compliance of the law on marriage and family relations with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also been established by the Constitutional Court, since we are coordinating the law with the European Convention on the Rights of the Child and also the Convention on Relations, which limits the competence of decision-making from social work centres to certain courts in the field of social contacts. The law allows decisions on survival and contact to be made primarily for the benefit of the child. The law provides that the child’s benefits are a fundamental guide, since the law specifically identifies a child’s opinion as an important element in decision-making and determination. It is also important that the law introduces the institution of the child’s trustee or the right of the child to a confidant. Contact is certainly the most important area affecting the psychodynamics of mutual relations that have already weakened and affected communities. They are almost fully in line with the European Convention on contacts adopted last year and offered to the countries for signature. With the amendments to this law, it can be found that it is almost fully accepted or realized. The law introduces the institution of joint education and the protection of children whose parents do not live together. It foresees the possibility of joint protection and education not only in divorce or after the annulment of the marriage, but also in all cases where the parents of the child do not live together. It is important and necessary to arrange contacts between the child and his parents and contacts between the child and other persons to whom the child is related, whether family or personal. The law clearly defines the child as having the right of contact and the benefit of the child is the highest. And the decisive and only criterion for all decisions relating to the right of contact. This right may be restricted only in cases where it opposes the will and benefits of the child. It could be further defined and settled in the courts. The UK Group will support amendments to the law, with the exception of the amendment proposed by New Slovenia, to Article 18 on the frequency of contacts. She won't confirm it, given that it's very restrictive, but at the same time, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, again. From the purpose and purpose and the entire content of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, and of course also from the novels of this Law, the policy pursued by the State must be clear on the basis of Articles 53, 54, 55 and 56 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of family also in the light of the demographic picture and through this introduction of a positive climate for the development and welfare of the family, which gives the best possible way for the child to form himself into a healthy and virtuous person. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore accept the content of the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law as positive, as this eliminates weaknesses in the implementation of the law in practice, in particular in the work that defines or ensures the protection of the child's benefit to the greatest extent possible, in particular with regard to the protection, education, survival and contact of the child with the parents even when the parents no longer live together. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the proposal also limits the power to decide on children’s contacts with divorced parents from social work centres to the courts, which will certainly eliminate a series of unreasonable and inconsistent decisions made by the centres, which have repeatedly favoured the fact that the fathers, in particular, have only been tortured and have difficulty in establishing permanent and direct contact with the child. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support and defend the starting point that decisions on the rights and obligations of divorced parents to children in general come primarily and mainly with the benefits of istroko. However, we do not support the identification of the child in and for the sole benefit of the basic proposal of the proposer, for it is of great benefit to him if he sees and experiences in his parents a happy and satisfied man. That is said, decisions must be taken primarily for the benefit of the child, but also for the benefit and ability of the parent. Such an approach also preserves the family’s basic postulates after divorce, resulting from the fact that parents or spouses or extramarital partners are natural, a preliminary basis for the formation of a family. The proposal for a law places first or foremost an understanding agreement between divorced parents on the exercise of parental rights in accordance with the child’s benefit. The Court only acts when parents are unable to agree on key parental rights, and in an unfair proceeding it is decided or decided to do so. An important application for the determination of obligations and the scope of maintenance shall be taken by a court which, under the provisions of this proposal, establishes the protection of the weaker one, stressing that no survival agreement shall endanger the child's benefit, but that even the debtors shall not be placed in an excessive or inexorable situation. The Court will certainly judge and decide much more neutral and evidentiaryly than it has been in the decisions of the Centre for Social Work many times, and it has acted with the best of intentions. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will fully support the proposal. It will also support the amendments of the four groups of Members and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 18, which also establishes the minimum scope and manner of regular contact of parents with the child, which, on the basis of genuine experience on the basis of numerous cases of abuse of one of the parents, most often and almost always of the kind where the child resides, is pointed out by many parents who are addressing me in these days as chairman of the Committee and who are somehow honestly giving their own experience. I think it's worth listening to and giving them some minimum conditions that must be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in particular, a good way to keep the family safe. [[...]] The Court, however, has the power to take over the matter, to reduce or amend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The DeSUS position will be presented by no one at this time. [[...]] Mrs Stanislava Stopar will present the position of Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. That's a good-bye to all of you! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations submitted by the Government for consideration brings urgent changes. A comprehensive reform of family law, prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Policy, could not wait for a number of unresolved issues. Some also refer to the Constitutional Court's decision. The bill before us today brings about the following changes and additions. The legal definition of the benefit of the child, which shall be a fundamental principle to be respected by parents, other persons and public authorities in all activities and procedures relating to the child. The power to decide on children’s contacts with social work centres is conferred on the courts in all cases where parents do not live together and cannot agree on the child’s protection and upbringing. The right of the child to seek the assistance of an appropriate person of his or her choice who is capable of understanding the way in which a child is to experience and receive the world of a particular child and who is able to translate the language of an adult into the language of a child. Important changes and additions should also be considered to take due account of the child’s expressed opinion when it is considered that the child has a sufficient level of understanding. Also, the Institute for the Common Education and Protection of a Child whose parents do not live together. Equally, according to the new holder of the right of contact, he will be primarily children and that his specific benefit is the highest decisive criterion for all decisions on the right of contact. The bill also eliminates some of the shortcomings of the current legislation on survival. Before the second hearing on the working body of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have assessed that the entry into force of the amendments and the addition of the Act of 1 September 2004 is not in favour of children to be dealt with under this law. That is why, together with the coalition partners, we have proposed an amendment which provides for the entry into force of the Act on 1 May 2004, which is also in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. For the second hearing of the National Assembly, seven amendments were tabled with the coalition partners in relation to the decision-making process on parental contact with the child. We therefore consider that the proposal for a law is a good basis for the realization of the benefit of children in family law relations, so we will support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! According to our assessment, that is, according to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, we are speaking or today we are considering one of those laws that will have an unequivocally strong impact, in particular the consequences of development, such or otherwise, of a new generation, that is, touching all of us, citizens living today and those who will come after us. The content of the material should be considered from this title with a sense of, or even better, responsibility, which, according to my assessment, is also indicated by the number of amendments. With this, of course, the changes that point to different aspects of solving individual issues, the dilemmas that have been raised both in individual parliamentary groups and in different meetings, should be the parent of the working body or the parliamentary groups. We have tried to actively participate in the national party in all stages of the drafting of the law and now also in the adoption of the law. This has been the aim of many amendments, some among them adopted, supported by the Committee, and others we hope that they will be discussed today and found support. In the Slovenian National Party we estimate that, of course, the common denominator of the law is the benefit of the child, that is right and should be. All the basic solutions found in the law come from or are defined under the child’s tactics. However, we estimate that, of course, at this moment and within this law, fear, fear of this common denominator, which is not only positive, as has been said by the speakers before me or by the proposer. So, the fear of the child's benefit - this right, of course, also represents the responsibility of the child - and the possibility of accepting this responsibility, according to the national party, may also have negative consequences and, in particular, careful operators of this law should therefore be with the new institution of this right. We took a close look at the content of the law in the National Party. We estimate that the essential chapters proposed by the proposer, i.e. the benefit of the child in this area, the implementation of the child through a third party or through the first person, i.e. through the child itself or the alternative provided by the law, through a confidential person, are positive. Hereafter, the protection and education of children, where applicants follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Institute of Common Protection and Education, we also assess that it is a positive novelty or adaptation of the decision of the Constitutional Court. The third chapter, or the third set of main solutions, as we have received from the national party's parliamentary group, includes the exercise of parental rights in any way and the novelty of the agreement decision, insofar as parental rights are maintained. The last, fourth part of the proposed amendments, which deal with children's contacts, should be commended for the proposaler's dictatorship, which says that contacts with children are no longer and only the rights of parents, but are children's rights. However, as I said at the outset, of course we have different parliamentary groups participating in the debate and the amendments, different views. I must say that in the national party we have tried to correct certain views or negative content of this law with amendments. For the time being, we have managed to balance the content of adolescents through our parent’s working body regardless of their educational status. So, the Committee has supported this amendment, this is an amendment to Article 6, and for this, of course, on behalf of the Committee's Group of Members, I also thank the Committee, but the remaining additions proposed in the National Party go in this direction of equalisation of children regardless of their status, i.e. whether they are from foster families or families with one parent. The whole amendment, which we consider to be most important, we sincerely hope that it will find support both in words and in actions, i.e. in the absence of distinctions, in responsibility and in financing. We will support the bill in the national party, but I sincerely hope that the fear of child benefit will be taken into account and that the law will be so much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 16.12.2003. They're on the paper. We're going straight to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy and the Group of Members of the United Nations, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. This amendment seems reasonable and logical to me if we assume that when, in relation to the marriage community, the family and in relation to this relationship, a decision is taken, this is understood as a civil law relationship and then the judicial procedure is appropriate. Therefore, the administrative procedure referred to in the second paragraph of this Article is inappropriate and the amendment which brings this to an end is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 16. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Club of Parliament of Liberal Democracy and of the Group of Members of the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. The conclusion of such agreements as bonds is unnecessary in our view. In general, tying some prior agreements to a social work centre is the only institution we can trust in this country. If we understand the marriage community and family as a private matter and that these relations are governed by civil law, we should leave a free choice to individuals who can be trusted to conclude such an agreement. However, it should not be an agreement as a necessary procedural condition for any further proceedings. Otherwise, we strongly support communication between spouses, but we stress that they should decide for themselves. And if it's the social work center that trusts him, who has a good job, then they'll go there, either one or both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I support this amendment because, on the one hand, it makes sense. But it is only when the divorced parents who have entered into an agreement agree that this agreement will also be offered to the court for judgment, or when they call on the court to issue a decision. But it's only when you've made up your mind. Although, of course, it's reasonable somehow, quite illogical. The parents or divorced parents have agreed on how they will act, are sonic, certainly sonic, perhaps even for the benefit of the child, but then give their consent to the court, which can decide otherwise. Let it be inside, though human, meaningful, logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I would just like to explain so much that even now, parents can agree on something that is not for the benefit of children. This is particularly true in cases where family violence or abuse is present. Above all, the second partner, as a victim of the situation, can agree with the other partner on such a way of regulating future relations between them, which could not be for the benefit of children. If I tell you that a child is a victim of violence, neither the mother nor the children hope to decide that it is better for the child to stay with his mother or his father, not his father. Such types of agreements can already be concluded and not for the benefit of the child. Therefore, the legislator has put in place a guardian so that even if the parents agree and this agreement can be seemingly good, it may not be in the interests of the child, and the court will reconsider and obtain an opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u28	It just doesn't hold. This agreement has come into force now, the parents have agreed on how we will deal with children, we are cohesive and, even before this comes into force, we can decide to make this agreement an assessment by the court. That is why it is unnecessary, Madam Secretary of State, to involve any abuses. These abuses could not have occurred at all. Since we have now reached an agreement, and then because of just confirmation or good, it is in accordance with positive legislation that we agree to do so that we ask the court which issues the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u30	I am allergic to the fact that, on behalf of the proposer or the producer of this bill, there are too many potential abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u32	I'm not a fan and advocate of sticking a country too often, too deep into it. The state intervenes at that time, and the court when the children's rights are under threat. Or one of the parents who can't take care of himself. Only then. Otherwise, the desire and the suggestion is to do it yourself. And then this agreement, of course, the court finds out what it is. If it goes against the benefit of the child, cancel it. It is only for this reason that the question is why it is imperative to put an agreement as a procedural element for decision. I do not say as communication between people, although we know that where divorces are made in an easy way, then not even all these ceremonies are necessary, nor is the child. Where it's at the peak where they're fighting and they've brought 100 degrees to the hot spot, so there's no such deal. But, well, that's what we gave so formally this agreement, but it's a bad instrument. But let's leave now, we can move on. It won't hurt, but practice will show you exactly what we tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u33	Can we close the debate on this article? Thank you. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 18. Here I remind you that we have three amendments, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and then the two amendments of the LDS Club of Parliament and the Joint List of Members, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Cuckoo and then Mr. Petty Officer. Anyone else? Yes, Mr. Brenčich. Good. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. A great deal of calls and letters were addressed to members of the National Assembly during this time of adoption of this law and this issue. Yesterday another letter came to us, addressed to Minister Dimovski and for our information, and I will only read a few of this letter, where I will keep my information that could identify the writer. "I'm the father of three children, unfortunately my ex-wife and I couldn't live together anymore and we broke up. Unfortunately, the last year has prevented children from contacting me. Unfortunately, it is supported at the Centre for Social Work. In this matter, you have already approved extraordinary supervision, which the Ministry has approved, which is already under way, for which I thank you. I've sent several complaints to your ministry, but they've all been resolved for a very long time, about five to six months. Can you imagine my six-year-old girl who would want to be with me more than her decision, since she's been with me since before, imagine her anger and infirmity, when adults do her wrong, imagine what she means to her half a year's fault with me? "And so on. So it's a problem, it's not even so pronounced here, we know much more tragic problems where the child's contact with a separate spouse has been prevented for months, for several years, because these things have been happening so slowly. But we all know, and I would like to point out here that a period in which a child has no contact with a parent can be very fatal for a child. For example, two years old, up to two years old, if he's six months apart from his parents, he doesn't see him, he forgets him forever. For him, that parent is wiped out, wiped out of his life. Up to two years, six months. By one year, of course, this period is markedly short. A month or so. And there's a lot of injustice here, a lot of trouble with that. The law provides for the resolution of this case, but it is up to the court to decide on these contacts. However, the law states that, while a proposal for a decision on the scope and method of making contacts may be submitted by many persons, including a child, a spouse, a social work centre, but before deciding, it is necessary to prove to the competent social work centre that the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, i.e. parents and children, were trying to reach an agreement with it. So, first of all, the law requires that for a period of time the procedure at the social work centre should be maintained in order for contacts to take place. This experiment could take a few months, it could take a year. Try it. Because the social work center invites both parents. One's not coming. Brings a medical certificate that he's in the hospital. Then again, playing and rejecting this coordination can take a very long time. And then, of course, the court also requests the opinion of the Centre for Social Work, then the opinion of the child, if he is able to give it, or his guardian or someone else who would trust him, and so on. And then, of course, the trial before the court. I'm sure such a ceremony will last a year. One year. It will not be possible sooner, even though the court will consider this as a priority. But if it's not a priority, it's five years from now. And for that reason, it would be necessary to resolve what at that time, or at that time, say, the parent with whom the child remained can truly take such willful revenge on his divorced mate, through the back of the children. I think you should give the law a solution here. What about at the time? The law should say, but the minimum personal contact is such and such. Until the court decides otherwise. This is said to be a possibility for children to have minimal personal contacts in the meantime. So until the parents agree, until the court decides, until things are resolved, it is necessary to ensure that the minimum of personal contact is ensured. And of course we have therefore proposed this amendment to resolve this matter. He was not admitted to the committee. I invite you, gentlemen, to give this agony of these cases such an elegant way to resolve and support this amendment. Further, if our amendments were to be adopted or were to try and resolve this problem thoroughly, then sanctions would also be imposed if the parent violated this requirement of minimum personal contact. And of course, sanctions would be the only way to eliminate maintenance, for example, is to pay the fine, and for another, to give such a parent, who, through the child’s back, is to take a child away from a separate spouse, so that the child can be taken away from the child or presented to another parent. I think we should take this seriously here, because in the context of this problem, these are the most painful cases for a child, the most harmful and the most painful. And this is where the state should ensure it. The protection of children's rights, therefore, in the event that a court decision has not yet been reached. Even if there is a court decision, let's say, in one year, two years from now, the parents with the child, invent and begin to avenge and briefly stop and prevent further contacts, even in this case, will be running again some sort of lawsuit, some sort of lawsuit, just like now. Now it takes years and years. There are cases of a child growing up without having contact with another parent because they complained indefinitely. Therefore, even in these cases, a minimum of personal contacts must be ensured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The debaters are now Mr Drobnic, Mr Brenčič, Mr Zlobec Lukič and Mrs Črnugljeva. You can't have a replica, you know. You can have a debate. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u36	We reiterate that our starting point in solving these kinds of problems is the consideration and necessity of both parents because they are needed for the healthy development of children, for the creation of their role, their personality, and for the continuation of life. That is why in that text of the law that you rejected, we have arranged what minimum personal contacts are, as this amendment is. And we added two more things: that the complaint should not hold back the execution. This means that, after the court's decision to ensure this minimum contact, this minimum contact shall continue to be established even if this relationship has not yet been resolved - precisely because of the maintenance of this parental right and parental contact. And we added something else. Where this decision is a final decision of the court and then individual parents do not comply with these obligations, there may also be a re-election. Of course, the court must then also take into account the priority for the benefit of children. This is to avoid all the ceremony and calvary that many parents have when they do not see a child after a few years because they are suing, but the court must judge in this way. The only reason it is possible not to ensure these contacts is because it is a legal ban on an individual parent not to be allowed to contact a child because of - when the court has decided. Why didn't you put such provisions in? These are reasonable provisions that respect the civil legal relationship and priority for the benefit of the child. This was in the text, in the amendment to the draft law that we tabled. Of course, you will now say that this amendment is difficult because it introduces regular personal contacts. That's right! But we primarily talk about personal contacts; not that once a month children have the ability to communicate via their mobile phone with their parents to get together with them to meet. That's why I want this lecture. "Personal contacts" and "regular personal contacts" should be inside. I would suggest that if you can, because you are better legal experts, also harmonise at the end of the amendment's harmonisation text of this law. In short, this is the intention of this amendment. Now, if the court finds that the agreement is not in accordance with the interests of the children, the proposal rejects, these are the amendments, this amendment tabled by the coalition. Of course, this must be agreed because the child's benefits are of priority, so I do not oppose this amendment, although I often oppose you, but not you this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In the area or matter that we are dealing with today under point 1 there is so much of our life today, and regardless of what we have set ourselves differently, life turns in a different direction so that things do not try me in this, the substantive ones who propose them. Even if, with our Group of Members supporting this amendment, I risk having an obvious chance of sitting in two chairs, which is a common case, as far as the Slovenian People's Party is concerned - I am risking that. But I say one. The fundamental point must be that even after a divorce, regardless of why and where the causes of life have changed, it preserves some of the basic values of the family for the benefit of children. Therefore, it is very reasonable to introduce a minimum requirement, or minimum, in the law, whether the limit of these personal contacts and thus establish a somehow starting point or even assistance at, I would say, an agreement between two divorced parents, which is on this minimum basis as the starting point for contacts between one and the other with the child. This, for the first time, makes it impossible for one of the spouses to see the light of some kind of resentment and also in practice to "execute" one of the spouses, because the other spouse, somehow, tricked him and so on. And all this stuff can shine on a child - but it doesn't matter now who the child is assigned to: either the father or the mother. In practice, it is such that chicken is usually a chicken and it is also the natural part that most children are assigned to their mother, where they belong, but cannot be otherwise. But it also commits the father initially that he is not released for business, different reasons, but is linked to direct personal contact with the child at least that much, at least so. The second is if those who are otherwise in practice carried out as they would like for the good of the child. Then the court intervenes and the amendment leaves the court free to judge. And I mean, the proposer should be following this. I don't understand at all why he's not willing to give some minimum as a basis for an agreement for the benefit of the child. In practice, what is now called for for by a very small child is that the cell phone or this communication is based on a device that provides a range of possibilities for such and different ones. That even abuse, one of the parents who cultivates resentment, and then somehow establishes a way of communicating through the technology that technology allows us to achieve today. But it's not the same as that real living contact: facing from eye to eye, that you're both a father or a mother, like a child say in an hour, two things to say to each other. And that he may also spend a vacation with one of the parents, with both parents - or anything else: either to go to a sports event or to attend an event with him. And I don't know why I should defend myself. If this is so out of the context or the purpose of the law, then the third reading candidate may be able to serve with a different formulation, but I don't understand why they wouldn't give me this starting point. Two parents came to one of them: one mother and one father, so I wouldn't say that only the father's view is the one who's here - both. And they both said, for the sake of a good starting point, which can only be upgraded for agreement, put it in. Integrate. Thank you very much. And we will support this, and I will be happy to hear an explanation that contradicts it, for I practically see no basis. I don't know what we're afraid of having a child too much with one of our parents. Thank God there will be more than that minimum time, which we will give as a postulate for the formation of an agreement. Secondly, if this time is turned back for the child’s benefit as we wanted - both of the divorced parents. That's when the court will decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil Lukich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I will by no means support the amendment to Article 18, because there is a deep hypocrisy here, both with my colleague Brenčič and with my colleague Drobnic. In fact, contacts are regular personal contacts, up to a minimum of four hours a week or at least three days a month, unless the court decides otherwise with regard to the benefits of the child. I know very well that both colleague Brenčič and colleague Drobčnik know well what calvary a woman who is beaten, raped, good-for-nothing children, divorced, destroyed the mother's upbringing, etc., and when it comes to a court banning and preventing contact with one partner or one parent, it is, believe me, a morale that passes a lot of water and this woman, that children have had a lot of severe experience. In short, this amendment is pure hypocrisy itself. But I have to say that I agree with my colleague Brenčič about one other thing. In view of the need to automatically allocate maintenance, regardless of the slow judicial mileage. In short, the legal mills should be running slowly, but in these matters, automaticity should absolutely apply. When you were talking, you were always talking about how the kids were downtown. It is true that the children are here in the center, but where the children are, if the partner or the husband, whatever we call it, beats, insults and humiliates the partner, the wife. No one will convince me that someone is a good father if he is a bad husband and if he beats up his wife or a woman or whatever we say. As an example, for example, domestic violence cannot be treated in isolation as just that it is only a child who deserves attention and protection - no, also a woman deserves attention and protection. But we can still talk about children, because it's something, at least the word 'untouchable' while the others are obviously in the shadows. Only as an example, at the Centre for Social Work Ljubljana - Šiška, 44 families were dealt with in 2002, the victim of violence was more, since in most cases it was violence against several family members - children. We have found that violence has in most cases been reported by the victims themselves, and schools are increasingly paying attention to the problem of violence. Most victims of violence are women. Data for male victims of violence are only one case for an adult male, and the rest are children and adolescents. Family members, men, partners, fathers, mothers are mostly perpetrators of violence. In only three cases, the perpetrator of the violence was someone who was not related to the victim of the violence. It was confirmed that the majority of perpetrators of violence are members of a family, of a narrower kinship and, in only one case, the contractor is a completely foreign unknown person. We are increasingly detecting sexual violence, even in these cases the perpetrators of violence are family members. The symposium entitled "Violence in the family - the way to salvation" was held in the National Assembly on 19.11.2003, and I must say that the Members were in no way hardened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. I believe that contact is certainly very important and that it is essential for parents to have a healthy relationship with the islands. And these contacts are more common, they are more intense, of course, much more affected by the psychodynamics of relationships between children and parents. Of course, this psychodynamics is distorted, is sick, and is not expected to work in one way or another, as in cases, for example, normal relationships between parents and children. Of course, I have doubts as to why and how to limit or set a minimum or maximum limit on these contacts. The amendment accurately states that it is at least four hours a week or at least four days a month. I wonder why at least four hours a week is that optimal or a minimum limit for one normal communication between parents and children, I think. In view of the fact that colleagues and colleagues have been very intense - talking about that through, say, the child's back comes a variety of forms of revenge between two parents and that there is also a lot of will and revenge - I know a lot of cases when legislation is in place, how and how parents were able to take revenge on each other; and this is very bad. If we adopt one such standard and precisely determine that at least four hours a week, we will in fact only encourage those conflicts that are already in such a relaxed relationship, that they will have the opportunity, in cases where parents cannot, say, realize four hours, at least four hours a week, either complain or sue and continue a much more conflicting relationship. I mean, these cases are pretty much something. I know a lot of them personally from practice. I am not talking about the fact that this may also be the reason, for example, that parents are absent because of studying abroad or because of operating in another part of Slovenia, because of business retention, etc. So that life brings so many circumstances, and this provision can only hinder the implementation of the law, so I think that some softer definition of the quantity of contacts and one so universally, is much more welcome than if we define: at least four hours. Because if I were a parent, I'd say at least 10 hours is the minimum, because I don't see why four hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Before we go to the second round of debates and debates, here I have Mr Drobnič, Brenčič, Germić, Partljič and Tsukjati's applications, if she wants a word now. I can do it in the end. Good. Then Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u44	At first glance, we can say why, and why we wrote such an amendment: four hours a week or four days a month. This is a guiding information provision that will have an impact on the decision-making of judges and on parents who divorce in order to facilitate agreement. Since it is a matter of mutual justice, one or the other may consume it, but it may not, but it is given to it as a dispositive one. So if a parent, an individual -- it won't be in his will to have so many contacts, I don't know, because he's too busy, but he'll do it to the extent that he can. For even if a child should ask for four hours, but he is not ready, he will not be able to fulfill it, because this right is mutual. But it allows him to have as many contacts as the court determines. He can give up without being punished. But we will solve a lot of problems if this provision - even before they go to court - those partners who feel hurt, neglected, can expect at least this minimum contact. And if there were even the clause we had in the previous text that the complaint would not hold up enforcement, it would mean that such a parent who is not granted protection by a child would have the right to such contacts immediately following an unlawful divorce decision. And that would continue contact, unless he had a court decision to have his personal contacts banned. So, this is a guidance provision for parents and for the court, some standard. However, the Court will decide, from the standpoint of the child’s character, whether this is possible otherwise. After all, others will have to agree in some way if they may impose a greater scope of contact on them. Therefore, the interpretation, as I said earlier, is a mutual right and will decide whether or not to consume it; the law allows it, and so does the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I risk being marked not only by the hypocrite but also by hyena after my performance. But everything's fine and well. What you have said, Mr. Zlłbec, is completely destructive - to build the whole context and purpose of this law and the state that the legislator wants to save for the good of the children after the divorce, it is to paint in the image that it simply arises because men beat women - or sooner or later! I don't know how this works in your marriage, it's your business, but my approach to this is completely different. I know a whole range of friends who are divorced, but the family is somehow going to the best of the child, just as we want to accompany her with this amendment or who wants to propose it. But don't sell me that corruption! Total depravity! Now I am a hypocrite because I have defined myself in a direction that is so right that it is right to put into law some minimum starting point which, if nothing else, at least obliged both divorced parents to take in behalf of the child. And we don't, please, sell that I'm a hypocrite. It is the Court's priority that it resolves, at the request of any of the environments that we are saving today, for the benefit of the child. And we don't sell now that I'm a hypocrite if I've been defending some fundamental starting point that's got to put the law in place. But because of me, you can have your relationship and assessment of the situation in our society, but it is not like you're painting it as any divorced couple or divorced parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I certainly agree that, in considering today's law, we want to follow in particular what is the basis of the law itself, and this is that all the decisions we make here - and, colleague Brenčič, I agree that this time it does not matter whether the amendment is written on one side or the other, but that we are trying to argue why we should make one or the other content. Of course, the basis of this law is certainly that contact should be primarily for the benefit of the child and that it is the child’s right to cultivate contact with both parents. Of course, it is an ideal situation for parents to agree after a divorce in what way and to what extent these contacts will also be cultivated in advance, of course to the universal benefit of the family. The problem arises where it is not possible to achieve this between marriage partners. At that time, we say that the child’s benefit may be at risk, and someone else must decide on this benefit. Here I would point out that there has been a lot of talk on the committee itself about what this benefit should be. And together we decided that it was primarily for the benefit of the child, not only for the benefit of the child, but mainly for the benefit of the child. And it was also then voted an amendment of the coalition, which entered the text only for a simple reason, because it seems very important to us that everyone involved in the contact decision-making process and then have the opportunity to give their opinions, opinions and suggestions to the parents and then take into account the opinion of the child, which will then, on the basis of all these opinions, be assessed on a case-by-case basis. This is where an agreement between parents cannot be reached. We therefore believe that it is better to maintain a general clause in the law that will talk about contacts, so that we can enable all those involved in the decision-making process to adapt to specific situations. Here, too, I would like to make it clear that there has been quite a bit of talk about a space that allows for a dead run. It should be pointed out here that the provisional court orders are those levers which, in this free course, can decide on the actions brought by the court and arrange for temporary contacts. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Given that my time is running out, I would just like to stress the inconsistentness of the text of the amendment itself, which I would say may also be unprofessionally prepared. For if we only read the text, we speak on one side of personal contact four hours a week or at least four days a month. And if we count the hours, the discrepanian is between sixteen hours, let's say, on one side and four times twenty-four on the other, which is a significant difference. I know that there could also be room for a substantive debate until the third reading, but I am only talking about a proposaler who, with such a wide range in this amendment, regulates these contacts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I must now point out that ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy no longer have time to discuss. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Well, I'd say a comparison here, so no case is absolutely in place, take it with a backup. The younger he is, the more he is completely dependent on his parents, his surroundings, and everything. All in all, including breakfast, lunch, dress, mental relationship, emotional environment, and so on - completely. He's kind of a prisoner that the neighborhood works with just like he does, and he can't help himself. Imagine that in prison the prison chief would take away a prisoner's food and say, "Prisoner you have a chance, complain to the court" and he will complain and then the court will take it into consideration and in a few minutes it will be consulted: the opinion of the prison kitchen will be taken and so on. And before the trial actually runs, the prisoner will die. Something's gonna die with the baby if he doesn't have minimal contact. Therefore, the prisoner should be told, "All right, if the prison administration were to cut off his food, but at least what it is, he should be given bread and water." This is every day: bread and water. Look, it's this minimum to ensure the basic child's right, nothing else, until the court decides. The court may then decide otherwise that the prisoner may be told: a sandwich and water. But until then, some minimum needs to be offered to the child, that's all we're talking about. As far as the violence mentioned here is concerned, I'll say so, gentlemen. I've been a family doctor for a long time. Through my office, there were some 100 divorces and also personal confessions and all the stress and nervous breakdowns, including suicides. I'll tell you, as far as violence is concerned, that the violence that is in the word of seceration, which, as it were, eats the nerves, is much worse than slapping. Don't tell me only men commit violence! Don't talk to me! I know tragic cases of different violence, but there's no talking about that violence. I also say that violence is rarely the cause of divorce. In rare cases! In most cases it is unfaithfulness, it is such a different matter — but many are more likely to take on marriage and so on. In most cases, there are other reasons. Not the problem of violence in such an easy way to get involved in deciding on children's rights. And I think that here, if the amendment is adopted, it can also be done - because they were obvious that they were not fully professionally prepared - to complement, to harmonise in the third reading and so on. But if you reject it, you will show -- sorry, that's what I think -- a very bad feeling for children's rights, a bad feeling. A poor sense of how to solve a problem that is essentially the biggest problem for a child in divorce and for which we obviously do not have enough attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kovsca, please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. However, I would say the starting point is that we must be aware that most - and this is the strict majority - of the people, of the divorcees, of the matters of agreements and of the conduct of relations and of their parental role forward. We are not talking about that percentage, perhaps two to five percent, that cannot be agreed on. And if we think that the contacts that will be resolved and the minimum extent of contacts will solve the reasons for not understanding each other - and Mr Drobnič, you know, you were at the meetings of the petition commission when the expert, psychiatrist, mediator said that there was no reason for these conflicts to regulate contacts or not, there were grounds for unresolved issues between adults, and the minimum extent of contacts would certainly not resolve these issues. When we have looked at comparisons in other European countries, nowhere has they been applied, nowhere is the mechanism established by laws high enough to solve what is the cause of the conflict, and in other countries there are about two per cent of adults who cannot agree on it, despite any legal solutions. Just because a conflict field is passed on to a child, it's actually caused elsewhere. And, of course, for my assessment, it is also a bit naive to think that these issues will solve. I would also stress that neither the Convention on the Rights of the Child nor the Convention on European Contacts adopted last year do they mention the minimum scope of contacts. I think for a reason, and also for a legitimate, professional reason, and I hope that this will also lead to the decision of each of you when you decide whether to make a minimum of contacts or not. I think it is not so much a dilemma, whether to set a minimum or not, but, above all, a conflict between this amendment and the basic basis in the law - it is the benefit of the child. And if today it is aprioristic that the child is in favour of four hours a week, I still do not know why not six or two - I think there is no professional justification for this, not even four days a month, because I do not know why not anymore or less - completely destroys this fundamental principle, that contact first to the child in favour and individualisation of what is then in favour of the child. You yourself have repeatedly pleaded: parents have the right, parents have the right. First of all, if we are going to implement the principle - and I hope that we will - in all cases of a professional approach to regulating contacts and relations between parents and children, thereby denying the starting point for us to come from a child if we determine what this minimum threshold is. In addition, I must say that parents who, due to objective circumstances, cannot make such contacts happen - or only temporarily or in any way. What will we do if our children accuse their parents of not making minimal contact or even working for the benefit of their children? This will give them such an addition to Article 106, which is legally possible. And last but not least, I think that in determining the minimum amount of contacts we would not reduce the number of conflicts, but our opinion is that we would even increase them, because today we come from one starting point: the benefit of the child and we define - there are contacts that are on the clock, there are contacts that exist that are just, I have to say even that, you know, if you're telling stories, I will say that the child himself decides to go on contact, because he says there will be peace in the house, and so on: he sacrifices for it because he is in these relations to an adult person - because it doesn't matter which one, or mother or father - I would single it out in truth because we're talking about two parents, women and men, in any case they can be found on one side or the other. [[...]] And I think we simply come out of the fact that we come from a particular child every time. By setting minimum contacts, we will, of course, give a field of opportunity to judges, experts and various experts who will have to give professional reasons - imagine - why it is not one hour or four hours for the benefit of the child, and how this difference will also be professionally justified - if we leave the child's point of view. If judged solely from the base and is the basis of the child, then of course they will decide how much what is in the child’s favor. However, if we set a minimum volume, we would each launch new procedures and complaints and prove why this minimum volume cannot be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u54	I don't know if you want to or don't want to understand. We need to take into account the child's benefit priorities. But you cannot provide contact if you do not respect both rights or both benefits. The child will not have contact if there is no other parent on the other side. In this provision, it is not only the benefit of the child, it is also a right, it is also a parental right. This needs to be arranged because it is impossible to contact a child with a parent if that parent does not want him. However, where he is in a dispute where he cannot, he refers to an information provision to be provided to that extent. That's the advantage. See, the provisions in the law can be written in such a way as to increase or reduce disputes. This will be a minimum contact standard, but we want maximum or optimal rights of the child. Therefore, these standards are likely to be higher. But when a parent makes a mockery of a couple of years, and does not make a decision, however, it is also important on behalf of a child who cannot express how much his optimal benefit is. Or can a two - year - old tell himself what the most interesting contact with another parent is for him, for he will not. Or experts - on the other hand, they will also have to ask their parents. You know, parents are also those who have different ways of working. Why did we give four days a month? Because some parents are, unfortunately, on the ground or anywhere after 14 days, three weeks and they would say, "But it's more convenient for me to have three days or twice a day, two weekends of children." This is some sort of guidance decision. It's not one to cut. The Court will, however, be defined in one way or another and will, on the basis of the primacy of the child, on the other hand, the needs of the parent or the ability of the parent to establish these contacts. Well, where a parent finds out he can't provide these contacts, they won't. In this case, however, we view the rights of parents. I mean, he's not gonna consume it, even though it would be useful for a child, but you can't force another parent how many contacts there will be, whether it'll be three hours or three hours and a half. Well, unfortunately, you can't do that. But if it's his interest and will, let's give him that minimum. A guiding, informative provision is this. In those disputed provisions, in disputed cases, those parents who feel left out in contact that another partner would like to raise may at least count on a minimum. We may be such a mature society that such provisions will not be necessary, but at the moment, given what is happening in Slovenia, this makes sense. From the rest of the text, however, there is no such diction in other text - regular personal contacts. And that's a flaw in the law, because we haven't defined what contacts are, regular contacts. Either it's a regular phone call, or it's an e-mail, or it's through some other machine, or it's a personal, human contact.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. So far, no one who opposes this amendment has convinced me that this amendment would not be necessary, and I am most surprised how the Ministry's representative could argue against this amendment in this way. In fact, he says, "What if parents can't do it?" I think an apology like that could put all our legislation on the table. Yeah, well, if he can't, he can't. If a separate spouse travels to America, Australia, he cannot do so and the children cannot exercise that right. That's why no one will be punished if they can't. Then I am surprised by the argument that in no convention and that no convention speaks of minimal contacts. Listen. We are not talking about minimum contacts, as we are talking about minimum ones, as for our own purpose. It is the inalienable right of the child to communicate with both parents, and that is all that matters, and this is what all conventions put first. I ask you how you will guarantee this inalienable right if one of the partners prevents it, the court will not resolve it for two years - how will you guarantee this inalienable child's right in these two years? How - you will not, unless this amendment is adopted. This is the point of the amendment where you determine bread and water, at least bread and water. Well, if you're saying it's too little - bread and water - you might say: water and a sandwich. Good. But that's not the problem, the problem is that a minimum should also be ensured when someone plans to prevent it. It not only prevents from taking revenge, you know, it's mostly, but often prevents at the beginning where it forces a divisional balance sheet where it forces, say, a process on property matters, on the sharing of property, etc. This is actually the most common thing where he says, say, the one who has a child assigned to him: I will not sign or you will not have a child until we sign this balance sheet as I want and so on. Thousands of things are like that, a thousand. And I see no other approach to ensuring in this interim period until the court decides how to ensure this inalienable right to the child. The Centre for Social Work is unable to do so because it has not done so far. And most of the cases were that it wasn't the center of it -- I'm not saying I could, but I didn't want to, but it didn't do much. As a result, the whole problem is based on the Constitutional Court, the transfer of these powers to the Court and so on. Gentlemen, it is only a question, therefore, whether we are prepared to guarantee this inalienable right of the child even in this interim period.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u58	If this amendment is adopted, we will make a further amendment, a correction that the complaint does not delay enforcement. So if the court decides, even if there is a complaint, because that is the only point of this amendment. To the point of completeness are those contacts that the court puts in place with a decision that is not legally strong and definitive but that is how these contacts are executed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Tiny. The amendment's amendment by the motioners is in line with - did you think in the third reading? Then it's okay. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you very much. More was said about those cases where divorces were present. Thus, the marriage community was concluded. We also have cases where they live in the family community. Another fact needs to be taken into account. Last but not least, in such cases, we come across very young people who live together. And in the event that such problems occur, there is a lot of anger, I would say, unexpected, severe and so on, which eventually may also be settled again and a family community will live nicely. And in such cases, I mean, you have to raise everything for the child. Now I'm going to ask you, does this child, who is not four months old, have the right to keep in touch with them? And if some of these guidance provisions - and I understand it as well - we will not accept it, then things are also happening here that are not acceptable. And it must also be given - it is also good, for the benefit of the child and is one of the fundamental rights. In fact, this amendment seeks to ensure certain minimum conditions for all these matters to be settled. I don't understand the position of the bill-maker myself, I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Since no one wants another word, I can conclude the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the two amendments of the four coalition groups. Anybody want a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u62	Article 19 speaks of the right of contact with other persons. However, amendments are aimed at giving priority to the benefit of the child in this case. This provision establishes active legitimacy for contacts in a broader way, i.e. in the entire family, brothers, sisters, half-brothers, half-sisters, foster parents, even an extramarital partner, or one or the other of his parents, in short, a wide circle. In order to ensure child health development, these contacts are certainly important, and we have also agreed with this amendment. However, I would like to ask the applicant whether we are establishing this active legitimacy, which will be enforced in this case. There may be a problem of rejecting all finality procedures, where even those foster parents, and I don't know who else, who would like to have contacts and want to have them with a court decision. Or it would not be enough to establish a toactive legitimacy solely for the spouse, but for the others through them, but the provision would not be binding. That's what I'm asking. I don't know if that's gonna have any serious consequences. You can comment in conjunction with Article 30, where this obligation of maintenance partner in the extramarital community is transferred, an extramarital partner who is not the parent of this child. If he has not made up his mind, he is not the father or the mother of this child, he has not decided on parental rights and we impose on him a right of maintenance by law. Why, for what? Somehow I understand that these active legitimacys would not be available to the rest because they would indirectly execute them. And also the 30th decision - I am not in favour of transferring the obligation of maintenance to an extramarital partner. I would like to explain this, at least a third of reading, although we can't do the 30th front, the President will be able to warn me, but they're connected -- he warned me that I'm going across.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? Can I help you? Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Because I also implemented directly, of course I would like to explain. The initiatives, which were expressed, also in the light of the practice of managing contacts, have several times shown that conflict between two adults has also limited the possibility of contact with older parents, foster parents and other persons to whom the child was linked. And it is the European Convention in its contacts that brings this novelty and initiative that these are also actively legitimate, but it is still the basis of children, its benefits and whether it has really been linked or really beneficial for them. Thus, I see no particular obstacle here that the court could not, even if all those who are listed are actively legitimate, decide not to do so, if this is contrary to the benefit of the child. Because active legitimacy itself still does not mean that the direct benefit of the child and the commitment of the child to that person and to his or her emotional development would not be determined in the future. I don't see it that way. But if we were to go through our parents, we're in our original state - we could go through our parents right now. And those who can agree on it are not embarrassed. Regrets arise where they are not and because they are basically family conflicts, they are also passed on to people like their parents, but they are the only ones who have been able to raise children and have a relationship with them all these years. And by doing so, it will be found for the child’s benefit. So I think that here the law not in this direction, in any way to give priority to others interested, but vice versa, because it is a matter of the child's benefit, of course, it also provides an opportunity for the initiative of these to determine whether it is in the interest of the child. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 33 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the United Nations, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS Group. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party, we regret that the amendment committee, which we have tabled to Article 33 and which is also directly linked to Article 32, would not be adopted. Why am I saying this? To see the connection and the meaning. In fact, in our proposed amendment, which unfortunately would not have been adopted, in Article 32, we wanted to set a minimum level of maintenance that would, of course, be comparable to the means they receive in foster care. In Article 33, only the sentence would be added to the first paragraph: "You must take into account the minimum fixed amount of maintenance." If, of course, these two were adopted, we estimate that the amendment proposed by the Club of Members and the other groups of Members to Article 33 would not be necessary at all. This is the assessment of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anyone else on Article 33? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 7.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We'll resume at 12:10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u68	We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION AND INJURY LAW - THE SHORTER PROCEDURE OF THE PROPOSAL WAS SUBMITTED TO THE CONGREGATION BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. Here is Mrs Nataša Belopavlovič, State Secretary, and I also welcome her and give her my word for the introduction or explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members. The reasons why the government has prepared and proposed amendments and additions to the law on pension and disability insurance can be summarized into three sets. We are coordinating the first law with legislative changes in other areas and can include the extension of the circle of compulsory insured persons. First, she introduced a new law on parental protection and family benefits. The family assistant introduces the amendment to the Social Protection Act, and voluntary recruits were included in the area of compulsory insured persons by law amending and supplementing the law on military duty. The new round of insurers also needs to be properly laid down, as well as the bases and the taxpayers for the payment of contributions. Under this law, amendments and additions relating to the duties and procedures of employers relating to the provision of the rights of working persons with disabilities can also be included. In this part, the law is aligned with the Labour Relations Act and the solutions proposed by the new Employment Rehabilitation Act are also taken into account. The requirement that the employer's obligations be better foreseen and determined in all cases of disability came from both employers and trade unions. At the second point of the amendment, I would like to stress explicitly the possibility presented by the novel, namely that this option relates to the arrival from one pension plan of collective insurance in another plan in the event that the worker changes the employer. Such a transition will be possible immediately, and under the current legislation it was possible only after three years or as the real law of 36 months. In the third part, it is a matter of extending certain deadlines, i.e. a transitional period for the introduction of a differentiated rate of contribution is extended by 2 years, i.e. until 1 January 2006. This is a change in the Disability Insurance Financing System, under which separate premium rates for insurance will be established, for injuries at work and for occupational diseases. These will be more related to the risk of activity and to the level of health at work of the individual employer. As this will change the situation of some industries, with such a system putting an additional burden on employers in particular of the labour-intensive sectors, the Government, after its consideration in the Economic and Social Council, has adopted a position to demonstrate, in view of the current economic potential of these sectors, by introducing different levels of contribution, still to wait a little longer. It is also important that provisions, provisions extending the time limit for the application of Article 102 to Article 105 of the Law, are used to apply certain provisions relating to the termination of the working relationship to a disabled person. The application of these provisions should be linked to the implementation of new employment legislation for persons with disabilities and since the proposal for the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities has not yet been adopted, we propose that the application of certain provisions of the law on pension and disability insurance be extended by one year. The exceptional forgiveness of working persons with disabilities must be linked to the possibility of their continuing employment, which, to a greater extent, enabled by the law. So much for this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the President, Mr Brenčič, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to the proponents, representatives of the government! The Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the proposal at its 39th regular meeting on 4.12.2003. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and made comments on Articles 18 and 21 from a legislative and technical point of view, or on the chapter "transitional and final provisions". The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities, which supports the proposal for a law. In addition, the Committee received comments from the Slovenian Insurance Association. Parliamentary amendments to Article 16 of the Law were tabled, Ambassador Janez Drobnič to Articles 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16 and Member States of DeSUS to Article 14. On the basis of the debate and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee also drafted its amendments to Articles 7, 18 and 21. The members of the Committee focused mainly on Articles 14 and 16 of the draft law in their deliberations. The Committee adopted the amendments of Mr Drobnič to Article 14, and the amendment of Mr Merl and Mr Drobnič to Article 16, but did not adopt the amendments of Mr Drobnič to Articles 11, 12 and 13 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 14. As I said, the Committee has also drafted its amendments to Articles 7, 18 and 21. The Committee has adopted all the draft articles and its work is reflected in the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. He's got the word "magic" first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u73	I welcome the representatives of the government and, of course, also the fellow Members and Members. Pensioners are always concerned when a change is being prepared by the government. And so much so that I remind you a little bit, every year before Christmas, we are surprised by a proposal for changes that promise nothing good. This time, too, these suggestions did not contain good. Well, something has happened that the ruling coalition has taken at least a little account of the opposition's proposals, i.e. the amendments tabled by Nova Slovenija. What are these key things? Insurance of family helpers for whom financial burdens are placed on municipal or local communities, which is not correct. See, if, at the same time, it is not appropriate to provide adequate funding for municipalities, it does not make sense to postpone and not do so, it is not appropriate. This, of course, narrows the budget at the state level, keeps the deficit still moderate, but creates financial gaps, financial gaps in public institutions, public economic sectors and local communities. There's no escape. We do not agree in any way that the real estate fund of the invalidity pension insurance would be transferred to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank God this amendment wasn't adopted. This could actually nationalize the huge assets acquired by pensioners by giving up about 10 years of 4% of the mass of pensions paid. You should be aware that this fund, in the context of these changes, included, at least as regards the property of 2868 apartments, which is a very good asset which can represent an appropriate balance sheet sum and also capital when solving financial problems, but not by selling it away for something else, but for what is his mission. As soon as he gets into the state budget, we know what he's like. The country has a need, a sale, and the matter goes cheerfully into other pockets. The obligation to cover insurance for damages also, because we Members somehow understood that if we accepted this amendment, we would eventually go beyond the cost of funding to citizens. It makes sense for the insurance company to cover the damage when it is done out of great negligence, not in other cases. So that's what's left. The government is recasting the implementation of disability legislation for one year. One year ago, we said one year ago, now back to the year ahead, 2005. Now would be the time to adopt that disability law on the employment of persons with disabilities; on employment rehabilitation and employment, as it is now called a little awkward. Employment rehabilitation is the whole concept of employment. So you'll probably have to change the address. But now it's this marriage and it's delayed for one year. With this, we have encountered difficulties in public procurement, which our fellow Member, Mr Bayuk, has pointed out. The amendment we have proposed would, of course, make sense if, in this law on employment of disabled persons, disabled companies were divided into profitable and non-profit enterprises. This would make the problems of public procurement easier and easier elsewhere. But with this transposition of the law and the validity of the provisions in pension law and the non-admission of that legislation, the disabled, in particular the workers, will continue to be deprived of the right employment and professional rehabilitation. Workers with disabilities accumulate enormously in lists, hidden employment lists and do not have access to active employment policies in order to secure employment on the labour market. If, of course, we did not adopt this provision, it could happen that disabled workers stay on the road one night, those who are still employed. Thus, with a provision of emergency assistance, the government postpones everything for one year so that it can enter the new year with care, but that is not the way it is done.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr Štemberger will present the position of the youth party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Insurance companies have known differentiated insurance premiums for several years according to the level of risk for individual types of insurance and these tendencies have also been transferred to pension and disability insurance. It is certain that workers in some activities are more at risk of occupational illness or work accidents and will be forced to pay higher rates of contribution to disability and pension insurance in the new way. These sectors include textile, footwear, mining, steel, wood. Most of the companies in these activities have been in great difficulty for several years and are fighting on the brink of survival. Almost a month goes by when we read in newspapers that this or that company is failing to close down establishments and move production, that workers have been unpaid for months and that social security contributions have not been settled. Although the trend towards higher premiums in cases of higher risks is fully understandable, we agree with the proposal to suspend the payment of these premiums for a period of two years. Many of these companies receive state aid to transform and increase competitiveness and it would be irrational to have this aid paid for additional insurance premiums. We also support the solution to the regulation of the real estate fund status. The annual warnings of the Court of Auditors following the rules of ownership are certainly a sufficient reason for these corrections to be introduced into the law. This will make it clear that the founder and only associate is a pension and disability insurance institution and is now responsible for handling almost 3,000 dwellings of this real estate fund. Today's session will also address the Social Protection Act, which introduces a new status as a family assistant, which is indirectly linked to this law. Of course, we support this because we believe that it will make life easier for the disabled and their family members and finally regulate the status and all benefits of the person who would like to devote his or her work to helping the disabled. At the same time, we warn that more and more obligations are being placed on the shoulders of the congregations. We expect that the number of family helpers will still not be enough to drive a congregation to the brink of collapse. But these trends after the financial burdens on the shoulders of the congregations will soon prove to be in bad light as devastating. Many smaller municipalities have already been so difficult to transfer financially all statutoryly binding payments of credits. We believe that the government cannot simply propose laws and place their financial consequences on the congregations without any explanation. There's only so much to think about. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The fact is that we are also adopting amendments to the existing law on pension and disability insurance at this December's meeting. However, the implementation of pension and disability insurance is in fact such a broad area that it can be understood that, in the practice of implementing the law on pension and disability insurance, the need for minor changes is reflected in the practice of implementing the law on pension and disability insurance, and this is also due to agreements in the Economic and Social Council, which are permanent in accordance with the principles of partnership, which we also welcome. In addition, individual amendments to pension and disability insurance also require provisions introduced by amended or adopted laws from other areas, in the first place the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits and the Law on Social Protection in this case. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the draft law in its entirety, except for the provision of Article 14 of the basic proposal. Here we support the solution whereby the sole founder and associate of the real estate fund of the pension and disability insurance institution, whose component is this fund, or then the real estate and housing fund, would be before the adoption of the new law on pension and disability insurance, and not the Republic of Slovenia, as proposed by the proposer. This could mean some kind of nationalisation of the property of the housing fund. It is therefore more reasonable for us to increase the capital adequacy of the institution for pension and disability insurance by means of a housing fund. And thus also preserves its purpose, the purpose of the fund, of course, here in the first place we think of the programme of construction of protected dwellings for the elderly and disabled, which has been very well received in practice and is almost indispensable. We also did not support Article 16 of the basic proposal of the law, because in this case the situation is very different from that of the health insurance institution in connection with the compensation owed to the transport compulsory insurance provider for the injury of its insured persons, in which case the health insurance institution would be the beneficiary of the pension and disability insurance institution. And this article does not contain a complementary proposal for a law anymore. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports amendments or laws as contained in the amended draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u78	Mr. Mario Gasparini, Liberal Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Well, today we have before us a government proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance, which we are considering following a reduced procedure. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has not made any substantive comments to the draft law, and we also consider that the LDS Group is prepared for amendments and additions due to new laws adopted in the near past, proposals still in the legislative process and decisions of the Constitutional Court. The bill primarily extends the circle of insured persons to family assistants and recruiters on voluntary service of military service. The 2001 Act did not regulate the transitions between the pension schemes of collective insurance that are necessary when the insured person changes his employment or employer. The current regulation of the law in practice is causing problems, particularly in view of the increasing movement of workers in the labour market. The proposed amendment is now allowing the insured person to include in the case of employment with the new employer the pension plan of the collective insurance established with the new employer and also to bring into this pension plan the funds from the pension plan drawn up by the former employer. The amendments and additions related to the employer’s characteristics and procedures regarding the provision of the rights of a disabled worker and the termination of employment contracts due to a disability identified or for a business reason without the offer of a new employment contract are also welcome. From this point of view, the draft law for the Group of Members is acceptable and we will therefore support it. I also have to say that the biggest discussion around the aforementioned Articles 14 and 18 and as the opposition, as well as the position, has changed Article 14, I think that is good for the reasons already mentioned today. Article 18 has been deleted; in the future, we will have to think about it a little bit more as we are in health insurance. But it's probably time to define ourselves. So, as the LDS Group has said, it will support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Ms Sonja Areh Lavrič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear government representatives, dear colleague, colleagues. We have before us a new law on pension and disability insurance, which, according to the proposaler's assurance, is an upgrade to the law, which was passed in 1999. However, it entered into force on 1 January 2000. With individual subsequent amendments, the Government subsequently corrected the texts, due to early retirement for insured persons who obtained a pension under more favourable conditions under the law governing the prohibition of the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an uninhabited manner. The following changes related to the coordination of pensions. However, a more extensive novelty was adopted for the year before, and then in 2002 there were even smaller changes in the coordination of pensions. The government has not yet been able to prepare a new law in such a form as to enable it to live smoothly in practice in all these amendments and additions. Thus, today’s novel is extending the circle of insurance to family helpers, volunteers for military service, and others. All of these cases are in line with the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Military Duty. In accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, 2004, prisoners shall be removed from the circle of insured persons. The second set of the novel includes a measure of certain rights such as: temporary compensation accepted by the beneficiary from the end of professional rehabilitation to the beginning of work at a new job, partial disability pension in the case of working time shorter than full time but longer than half full time, reduction of the proportional part of the compensation for the time when the user is employed less than full time The reason for the novelty is also the final regulation of the legal status of the real estate fund of pension and disability insurance, whose founder and sole associate is the institution. The novelty allows the insured person to include in the new employer's pension plan a collective insurance scheme designed by the new employer and also to transfer the pension plan from the pension plan drawn up by the former employer. It also points out in particular the changes and additions related to the employer's duty and procedures regarding the provision of the rights of a disabled worker and the termination of the employment contract for the purpose of identifying disability, second and third categories or for business reasons without the offer of a new employment contract. The provisions of the bill extending the time limits for the introduction of a differentiated rate of contribution are also important. Finally, it points out that the proposed amendment aligns the law with the Constitutional Court's decision, although the government proposal is late again. The proposal for a law on disability and pension insurance does not change the basic principles of pension and disability insurance with its objectives. The number of changes and the slowness of the Slovenian government in such important content as the said matter is what we are in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. While we are not opposed to the novels, it is necessary to say that the national assembly, or the working body of the government, has been regarded as satisfactory. However, the proposal also proved fundamentally flawed and inaccurate and needed certain corrections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor, a united list. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u83	President, State Secretary with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! In the last three years, after we started implementing a comprehensive pension reform in 2000, we have met for the third time with amendments to this important law. In fact, this merely shows how important and challenging the law on pension insurance is and how many of the problems we face in its implementation are in practice in regulating the rights of virtually every one of us. In the UK Group, we also understand the proposed changes aimed at improving the conditions for the implementation of the law in practice and therefore support the proposed arrangements in it. Especially since the proposed amendments have also been harmonised in the Economic and Social Council, which is at least an important information for our Group of Members. The initial purpose of the law following a reduced procedure was to extend the deadline for the introduction of differentiated contribution rates intended to cover accidents at work and occupational diseases, which we support in the parliamentary group, as differentiated rates, despite good intentions, could threaten a large number of jobs in sectors where they face the greatest problems. The law also seems to us to be important for other proposed solutions, which represent most of them in line with the amendments to other laws. This is how we support the extension of the circle of insured persons to the groups introduced by the amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, by amending the Law on Social Protection and by amending the Law on Military Duty. We find it very important that the articles clarify the situation and regulation of the rights of persons with disabilities in the second and third categories, which are aligned with the amended labour legislation and the expected amendments to the Employment Rehabilitation Act. As we know, this is a high level of consensus between the social partners. Although we know that the issue of the deadline for the exceptional forgiveness of persons with disabilities is still not resolved among the social partners, to which we will have to be particularly careful when adopting this law, as a large number of people with disabilities can really be concerned. Due to the agreement of the social partners, we also support the deletion of Article 16, which referred to the pension and disability insurance institution as an injured person in compulsory transport insurance, which is also supported by the parent committee. And we will also support the solution to become a pension and disability insurance institution the sole founder and associate of the real estate fund. This seems to us to be the best solution, since the housing fund, with which almost 3,000 dwellings are managed, has also been built, and especially with the contributions of active insurers who are now pensioners. If I conclude, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law with solutions that have been coordinated on the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much. we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate. And thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote at 7.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government. We'll proceed at 12.55.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u85	Hello! We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH INSPECTION LAW I salute the Minister with my coworkers. If that's what he wants, I'll give him my word for an explanation. Please have five minutes, Mr. Minister, to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u86	Dear Mr. President! Ladies Members and Members of Parliament. In front of you is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Inspection Act, which is proposed by a reduced procedure. This proposal for a law directly refers to changes defined by other new regulations, such as the State Administration Act, inspection, offences, the Law on the regulation of premises, construction of buildings, public servants and so on. This law is not directly related to European law and, in particular, to the practice of its supervisory authorities. The proposal for a law governs the following two groups of problems, or content. One is the definition of the tasks of health inspection as activities and the other sets out the tasks of the body carrying out the inspection as an activity and inspectors as direct operators. It deals with the issue of the issue of consent, conditions, guidelines, opinions on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, questions about institutions providing professional support, as well as ways to ensure the legality, quality and effectiveness of the functioning of the authorities, or of the work of inspectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was examined by the Committee, and I give the floor to my chairman, my colleague Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the minister with the team. At its 39th regular meeting, on the first day, 3.12., the Committee considered the proposal for this law. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and commented on Articles 2, 10, 13, 19, 20, 21, 23 and 24. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Committee of the State Council on Social Activities, which supported the proposal for a law and also took note of the comments of the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia, a more specific association for trade, and, of course, considered these comments at the time of its consideration of Article 2. Amendments to Articles 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 21 and 24 and amendments to Articles 12 and 19 of the Parliamentary Common New Slovenia were submitted to the draft law. After a brief discussion, the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy, People with Disabilities did not formulate its amendments. The Committee has adopted amendments from the coalition groups to all the articles that the amendments submitted have opened. The Committee did not adopt the amendments by articles 12 and 19 of its fellow Members of the Magi. Oh, you little thing. In accordance with Article 128, the Committee also voted on all the articles submitted, which, as such, contain an amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u89	We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, the first will be the colleague of mags. A trifle, followed by a fellow Levich, etc. Kolega Drobnič will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your word. The well-welcome representatives of the government as well as others present, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for amendments to the Health Inspection Act. The government claims that it is also necessary to harmonise it with the European Union, but there are also some other things that we need to change because of our own practice and our own arrangements. In Novi Slovenija, we agree with some of the changes, but some of us do not give adequate support because we have reason to be inappropriate, so we have tabled amendments. We have put the amendments primarily into carrying out the expert test, for how long the inspector should carry out it and not the frequency of the inspection procedures. Following the current proposal for regulation, the supervisor should prescribe for himself how long the supervision will take, for in his risk plan he will foresee when supervision is needed. This does not seem to make sense and appropriate in terms of the neutrality and independence of the inspection. However, there was no proper obedience to such a solution. Then it's a matter of sampling. It is in the former or existing law that this is taken free of charge, so that it does not burden the one being controlled or checked. Now this provision is not so regulated. The question is, of course, also through the granting of concessions. Due to the small space which, and due to the small number of inspection laboratories, may occur, there may be the same laboratory at the first stage and at the appeal stage or at the audit, which will assess either the samples or the one that is to be assessed. In terms of neutrality, this may appear to be a problem. Otherwise, concessions as such would not be opposed but, given what we have in Slovenia, there is no possibility of the right choice. It also disturbs us that fines for certain infringements are equal for legal and natural persons. Our proposal was that this would differ in the same way as in other laws. Those provisions, or amendments, which are in terms of alignment with the European Union, we support them and, of course, not the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. My friend Levich is not here. Then he'll be a buddy of Cuckoo. He will then present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u92	Your Honor! Perhaps the average Slovenian citizen is not aware of the importance of health inspection. If we look only at the content of Article 1, which is now somewhat specific, it is a matter of several very important areas of the health inspection work. In this presentation of the opinion of our Slovenian Democrats Group, I would mention only two. The area of health adequacy or safety of food and food, drinking water and so on. This is certainly a very important area. In particular, from this point of view that food is becoming more and more common, there are fewer and fewer people who are producing it at their kindergartens, more and more food purchased, which, of course, the buyer cannot determine what quality it is and therefore the country has to make sure that it is appropriate. Here's the question of accredited laboratories. So far, medical inspection has given questionable or suspicious products to a laboratory. From now on, it is intended to give them only to accredited ones, i.e. those who are allowed in advance to grant them a concession, to conclude an agreement with them, to set prices and so on. Since Slovenia is very small, there are very few laboratories available for health inspection. And we will soon have an example, as mentioned earlier, that, for example, in analysing the sample before it goes on sale, so before it gets a permit, a laboratory group or some specific laboratory will analyze it. Then, because these laboratories are few, the Minister of Power or Accreditation of the same laboratory, which will later carry out a monitoring study, will of course not be able to disqualify this same laboratory from its previous findings. And it's possible to experiment and influence the results. You know that these results can be adjusted in some way, even in part, both by taking the sample and by simply investigating. Let us state that it would be reasonable to realize this long-known tendency in this area so that the health inspectorate would have its own laboratory for all Slovenia, which would carry out this function independently. This would probably not mean significantly greater resources, since the investigation should also be paid to accredited laboratories. The second question, of course, which is also related to the proposed amendment, is the question that health inspectorates carry out their work also in the field of minimum health and health conditions in public health institutions, baths, children's care, education, education, hospitality, tourism, hygiene care, social care and so on. So it's about places that have to be suitable for processing, processing food as well as swimming pools and other public services. And this is controlled by medical inspection, or consent to build or require renewal, modernisation, such as sanitation and the like. Here are the complications that we are reminded of, namely, that there is no such opinion and that the result of the health inspection is timely and so on and so on. They would therefore suggest that, in some way, a sanitary inspection be undertaken here in order to do so within a certain period of time, or otherwise it is considered that a sanitary inspection for construction or such a construction project has consented if it fails to deliver an opinion within a certain period of time. Of course, this is an amendment, so I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. However, we believe that such an amendment would be acceptable and only useful for text only.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. A colleague of Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. After her, my friend Brenčič. Colleague of Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Well-known representatives of the Ministry of Health, Minister of Health Dusan Keber! Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health Inspection Act following a reduced procedure. It represents one of those laws that we are amending in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union, as well as for other reasons. It also details the organisation of the inspectorate, the powers and the actions of the inspectorate and the criminal decision, since, due to some of the newly adopted laws, such as the law on the regulation of premises, the law on the construction of buildings and the issue of the award of consent to the spatial implementing acts and the decisions on construction, it defines otherwise than in previous regulations and, therefore, the other chapters of the law concerning the giving of consent and the authorisation of the inspectorate do not comply with the new definition in those two laws. The Space Regulation Act does not provide for agreement on the drafting of spatial implementing acts, but merely guidelines for planning and opinions on the complementary proposal for a spatial act. It is good to know that the health inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is carrying out inspections for the purpose of protecting public health of the implementation of the law and other regulations governing areas which are certainly very important and because they are so important I will also list them: infectious diseases, health or food and food safety, health adequacy of drinking water - we know how much controversy there has been about what kind of water we drink - public water supply facilities and public water supply facilities, health conditions in public health establishments for legal and physical persons who are in contact with animals, cosmetic products, toys, tobacco, tobacco products, restrictions on the consumption of alcohol, hygiene of bathing waters, sanitary health conditions in public health establishments in legal and physical institutions other than health professionals carrying out health activities in bathing, in activities in the field of child protection, education, catering, catering, catering, tourism, health care facilities, health care facilities, health care supplies, health care services, health care services, health care, medical care and health care services, medical care services, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care and medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care, medical care for children, health care for children, education, education, education, education, education, education, health care, health care and health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health, health, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health, health, health, health, health care, health, health, health care, health, health, health, health, health care, health, health, health care, health, health, health care, health, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health care, health, health, health care, health, health, health, health, health, health care, health, health, health care, health care, health, health, health care The frequency of the exercise of this control depends, of course, not only on how and how the control is defined in the law itself, but also on the material means available to carry out all this surveillance. For Members of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we find this very important area and the important tasks performed by the health inspectorates, and they represent an extremely important contribution to the protection of public health. However, we must be aware that this is not the only contribution to the protection of public health. In this context, there are a number of tasks that are defined either in the National Health Programme until 2004 or in a series of other strategies and national resolutions. Of course, documents, legislation, resolutions represent only one aspect of protection, and in particular public health protection. In fact, how this protection, how we are capable of all these laws, will lay down the rules for all of us, the State and the wider social community to actually act, and it is also up to us, Members of Parliament, every individual who lives every day and every day actively participates in public life. We will support the present law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the basic Health Inspection Act, our understanding of change is that it enters into change more on the basis of a technical nature than the substantive and conceptual causes. As in several of the legislative proposals that we are considering at this meeting of the National Assembly in the field of work of the Committee of the National Health Council, work, family, social policy, disabled persons, in this case also propose amendments to the basic law as a result of the provisions adopted in the laws in other areas, which, directly or directly, require harmonisation in the Health Inspection Act. However, this is also the first draft of a law that has somehow collided with the provisions of the new Law on State Administration and that is why I would like to thank both the Chief Health Inspector, Dr Severjev and the Counsellor of the Government, Mr Perčič for a constructive approach in the drafting of the replacement text of the bill that we are considering today. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law, but we are of the opinion, irrespective of whether it is directly from these points of view, as I have just said before, to replace the text of the bill in order to adopt a new law on State administration by adopting an approach as it is established by a new law on State administration, when the transitional provisions of one law directly interfere with the validity or substantive provisions of another law, establish a significant lack of transparency or create ignorance for a number of users of a particular law that a particular provision is repealed by a completely different law. In our view, this requires the legislator to adopt as many purified texts as possible if we do not want such an approach to have a number of negative consequences. I just want to say two more words about the second article. According to the proposal of this law, of course, health inspection is also a co-operator in projects of such or different nature. And in practice, it is already very difficult to follow the 30-day deadline for an investor’s response or consent, as is the command in the new building law. However, from a fairly solid point of view, it is necessary to seek to eliminate certain administrative barriers to investment in any way necessary to follow this deadline as closely as possible. How the health inspectorate of the interior, or whatever else, will physically reorganise to follow this, is the matter of the Inspectorate of the Ministry itself and of course. However, I think it would be very good if we were able to follow the provisions that come out and essentially require him to respond somehow in 30 days or to give his consent. On the other hand, it is understood that the seeker of consent received the role solved. It would be good to just avoid it and save things in 30 days. So that I see nothing wrong if we might adopt the proposed amendment to Article 2 but this provision will be written twice. First, when the building law in this case imposes upon the inspectorate, and secondly also now, I know that the scope of work and the physical capacity of the inspectorate are quite limited here. We'll support the marriage. And we will also support the amendment unless the drafter otherwise substantiates the immateriality of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you, Comrade Brenčič. My colleague, Alexander Merlo, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the Government's proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Health Inspection Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, because the proposal means harmonisation with certain newly adopted laws or their amendments, in particular the law on the regulation of the premises and the law on the construction of buildings, which define the issues of consent to space-based acts and construction decisions differently than in previous regulations. Amendments and additions are also necessary because inspection tasks in certain areas have been transferred to other bodies within the Ministry. More specifically, it was necessary to identify institutions that provide professional support to the inspectorate in carrying out the inspection and to allow individual actions to be carried out in the inspection of persons who do not otherwise have the status of health inspector. For a second hearing at the meeting of the home labour body, the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, with coalition partners, drafted amendments in accordance with the opinion of the legislative and legal service which improved the text of the law. In our view, the bill is acceptable and will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u99	The last position on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Medical Inspection will be presented by colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed novelty ahead of us follows the following objectives: to harmonise the area of control in relation to the transfer of specific areas of control to other inspection bodies within the Ministry; to harmonise the issue of the issue of consent, conditions, guidelines and opinions with the newly adopted legislation on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings; to define more specifically the institutions that provide professional support to health inspection in the conduct of inspections; to allow individual activities in the inspection of persons who do not otherwise have the status of health inspector. The proposed amendments and amendments to the law are without prejudice to the basic principles of the law. Amendments constitute the legal basis for the definition and establishment in the European Union of already established and established bases for determining the frequency of the inspection and the manner in which the quality and effectiveness of the inspection are ensured. However, we find interesting in the Group of Members that it is not possible to compare the existing and amended health surveillance system with the countries of the European Union, since this area in Slovenia should be regulated differently. We still miss certain comparisons with other countries. That is why we expect certain facts from the government. I should also mention the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which refers to Articles 23 and 24, which directly interfere with the text of other laws, noting that, in terms of legal certainty, such an intervention is extremely non-systematic, since it does not guarantee the transparency of the legal system. At the same time, it strongly violates the principle of legal certainty as one of the basic principles of the rule of law. Both provisions remain in the proposal. Despite certain criticisms in the Group, we are assessing that a particular area needs to be regulated, so we will not oppose the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments, which is not a long one, has a single proposal, namely the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. This is an amendment to Article 2. I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss it. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I would like to point out only one thing about this amendment. The construction law is such a diction that if the authority does not agree that this consent is deemed to be given. But there, if I'm not mistaken, it's written that the authority that runs the administrative procedure can then decide. Therefore, this word can, of course, be used in practice and implemented in such a way that, in so far as the administrative authority which does not obtain consent decides, it does not in fact apply this option in the building law. He simply wants to protect himself in this way, which is understandable. That is why I think it might be good to support this amendment from this point of view and in this Health Inspection Act to legalize it, says this 30-day deadline, because I myself have worked in the inspection and I know that 30 days is long enough to agree either to reject it or to reject it. And the organization itself cannot be a medical inspectorate, some excuse to oppose such an amendment. I suggest we support this amendment. It will certainly help to lead procedures more up to date, for sometimes it is true that because the co-rapporteur does not give consent within a certain period of time, and we know that due to the entry into the European Union, we must speed up these procedures and actually make it easier for those investors who want to invest in an activity to obtain an appropriate permit as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u103	Anyone else? Minister maybe what? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u104	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, especially those who have commented and proposed changes to the law. First of all, allow me to thank Mr Drobnic, who has rightly mentioned the problem of this first law which has been struck by the State Administration Act, but let me also return this compliment by thanking Parliament's legislative service, which has played an important role in preparing this law accordingly. Allow me to comment on some comments, or proposals, in particular those relating to the amendment to Article 2. This amendment has already been extensively commented on at the committee's own meeting, so I will be very brief. There are two laws governing the silence of the body, namely the system law on general administrative procedure in Article 209 and two sectoral laws on the regulation of premises and on the construction of buildings. They are even stricter than in the proposed amendment. It shall be deemed to be the silence of the Authority when it does not give the relevant consent within 15 days. But let me say something very substantive. It is not so much about how we may sometimes impose the law on understaffed services, how to carry out their duties, but how can we also take other measures to ensure that they carry out their tasks within the time limit they have, and I can only say that we have reduced the amount of consensus required in this law. It is true that the consensus has been given new content, that in some elements it is becoming more difficult, that it is also new laboratories and new services that will be needed in the future, but the number of consents that have literally been needed so far for almost every dog’s influence, if I may express myself, is now decreasing quantitatively for a good half. This is also a guarantee, and that's what the health inspectors call it, so that these consents can be issued within 14 days. Another point, namely what types of laboratories we need in this sensitive area, their quality and neutrality, their non-substitution and so many other things could be mentioned in this account, is that a small country such as Slovenia cannot develop its own state laboratories for so many of the quality areas that are supervised. In a lot of cases, and in the future there will be more, we'll even have to go to labs abroad, and we're already doing that. Therefore, we think that it gives a system of accreditation, of choosing a laboratory, and of course also of replacing a laboratory, if it turns out on a case-by-case basis that it does not fulfil its task, a better guarantee than to create its own state institutions, which, of course, we know in other words, on other occasions, and even rightly, even ever to criticise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u105	Anyone else? Nobody. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's all I'm saying is that Mr. Minister mentioned Mr. Drobnič, but earlier it was Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u107	Good. We'll take that as an explanation. Anyone else who has the right to be in this debate? Then we will conclude this agenda item and continue with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmacy at 2 p.m. However, the amendment will be decided today in the context of the 19th and 30th minutes vote, in accordance with the timetable for the proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Medical Inspection Act. By 2 p.m., when we begin our consideration of the 12th item of the agenda, I am taking a break from the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the pharmacy law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u108	I apologize for the delay of two minutes, which goes beyond the practice so far in this mandate. We're not usually a minute late, but okay, I'm sorry. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Medical Activity. This law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. We are also accompanied by Dr. Keber, Minister of Health, who probably wants to further explain this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activities touch on a very small number of articles and are necessary to comply with the Law on Professional and Scientific Titles and to comply with the European acquis which allows for the equalisation of diplomas, the recognition of diplomas and the free movement of persons between European Union countries. In the field of pharmaceuticals, this means that in this law we give the university graduates a unique title of Master of Pharmacy and we leave the former title of Master of Pharmacy. On the substantive side, however, we extend the pharmacology studies from four and a half years to five years, with the training that has been abandoned in the form of a semi-annual practice being transferred to the study itself, so that we also meet the requirement of the directive, not only on the duration of the study, but also on the relationship between the theoretical and practical work of the study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u110	I ask the Chairman of the Committee on the Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons to submit a report. Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, this bill was also discussed by the Committee at its 39th regular meeting on 3.12.2003. In addition to the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, it formulated specific comments to the draft law on Articles 1 and 3 of the law. There was no debate on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pharmacy activity. In addition, the members of the Committee went on to vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments which were tabled by the four members of the coalition until the expiry of the deadline in accordance with Rules 1, 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure. The members of the Committee supported the amendments tabled. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also voted on all the articles and, in this regard, a supplementary proposal for a law is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic will communicate the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with escort! This amendment to the Act on Pharmacy, which we are adopting after a reduced procedure, is also a matter of alignment, as we have already heard, with the European acquis. It regulates the area of professional qualifications, professional titles and conditions to be met by an individual if he or she wishes to carry out a medical activity on his or her own. The Faculty of Pharmacy provides for a new study programme for the academic year 2004/2005, which will include theoretical and practical education, which will include at least five months of pharmacy practice or at a hospital under the supervision of its pharmaceutical department. Therefore, the graduates of this study programme will be excluded from the traineeship, which will be suspended only in 2001 and 31.12. It also introduces a new professional title, "Master of Pharmacy", instead of the former "graduate pharmaceutical engineer". The New Slovenia Group agrees with the short-term adoption of this law and will not oppose its proposal because it is included in the EU programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck. Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party parliamentary group. Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, we have before us a law that was passed first in 1992. And we haven't touched him in ten years. It's a quality marriage, a good marriage, a short marriage, a clear marriage. And why did he last so long? Because it was mainly prepared by those concerned, that is, pharmacists, a pharmacy. Because the law was then prepared in agreement with the chamber. Last year we changed the law for the first time and, in fact, at the request of some harmonisations with the European Union. Last year, so exactly one year ago, we adopted a change in this law regarding the professional examination and the Slovenian language for foreign citizens, or for those who might come from the European Union, into this field of work and law. Well, today we are changing the law again, once again at the request of the European Union. I hope that next year we will not change again at the request of the European Union. I think that these requirements do not change from day to day, and it would probably be a burden to relieve this national council in order to adopt this package, all changes in quality law. Well, in our case, this change is about changing the title, to harmonise again the "magister of pharmaceuticals". That's kind of, I'd say an old aristocratic title from before the first world war, which then the revolution banned and we all became health workers, and, of course, formation engineers, and so on. However, this must somehow be aligned with Europe, which is still so reactive, aristocratic, I would say, which does not understand the current of the revolution. We just have to adapt, and clearly it's just some correction, and we don't object, we're going to support the law, but it would be good if, in the event of this law, especially with regard to its validity and integrity, we tried to learn something about how the laws are written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Colleague Silva Črnugelj will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats delegation, followed by counterpart Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known members of the Ministry of Health, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmacy, following a reduced procedure, because this law represents one of the technical laws provided to us by the Government or the Ministry of Health in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union. Amendments to the law harmonise the use of the professional title of the Master of Pharmacy and harmonise the provisions of the Master of Pharmacy traineeships, which will be enrolled in university studies in 2004, 2005 or later. Of course, the law also means aligning with the legal order of the European Union in the field of the regulation of professional qualifications and the conditions to be met by an individual in order to be able to carry out the activity on his own. In its Article 1, the law introduces or replaces the text of the "graduated pharmaceutical engineer" with the word "master of pharmaceuticals", which lays down the condition for regulating health activities or self-employed work after the completion of the study in the pharmacy and the conduct of the professional examination. Set the duration of the traineeship period of 9 months for the pharmaceutical engineer and 6 months for pharmaceutical techniques. The draft law will be fully supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you very much. This bill is not something to add, it is practically a proposal of this law simply to harmonise, we say, with other laws, but let us hope in the parliamentary group that this is a final or final harmonisation with the directives of the European Union, because also on this basis, or what we are changing in this law, we have already changed in other laws in order to harmonise legislation. So we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Comrade Gasparini, LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you very much, President. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Pharmaceutical Activities, submitted by the Government following a reduced procedure, constitutes only compliance with the law on professional and scientific addresses and a decision on the harmonisation of the professional and health addresses obtained. In these two regulations, the professional addresses of a graduate pharmacist and a graduate pharmaceutical engineer are equivalent to that of a mag. It's a pharmaceutical. The proposed amendments and additions to the law therefore coordinate the use of the professional title mags. pharmaceuticals and provisions in the traineeship for mag. pharmacies to be enrolled in university studies in the academic year 2004/2005 or later. For a second hearing on the Health Committee in the LDS Group, together with the coalition partners, we have prepared amendments in line with the opinions of the legislative and legal services that have all been adopted. Since the bill brings only less difficult changes and additions, and is in line with the opinion of the legal service of the National Assembly, we will support it in the Group of Members. Let me be allowed my opinion, because Dr. Tsukati said something about how well this law was well prepared, and now that we have not changed, I must remind him that not only did the pharmacy chamber participate in the creation of this law, but it is also the office for medicines, the Ministry of Health and some of the Members who were sitting here, and we also sat in the medicine office, and we came to this law together with strength. I don't think we just have to compliment the chamber and so on. That there's a revolution going on here, we know what revolutions I don't think make any sense. Taking advantage of every opportunity to set something up here, I don't think that's part of the pharmacy business.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u122	Please, if there is any law we can expect not to talk about it, it seems to me that we can assume that we will not discuss it. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u123	All parliamentary groups expressed the same position, in short, to support the law. We mean it in the national party, too. A hand-to-heart is essentially a follow-up to the European Union directive, which means that the study will subsequently be extended for four and a half years to five years and that the structure of the study will be slightly complemented. However, according to our assessment, it is reasonable, more than the substance of the law itself, which is not, in fact, because we are talking only about two articles and a change of title, to consider such tasks, so this part of the legislative procedure, when it comes to such changes, could be left to the government, of course, if we were to have a different system of writing and the adoption of laws. However, from this city, because we are not going to advertise any more about this law, I would like to express only criticism of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, now I do not know whether you have prepared the law seriously, or whether you are so incapable of making mistakes in two articles. From this place, please, if you take this as a criticism, and for the second time give to the National Assembly a proposal for a law to which, of course, if a law with two articles such as this, there will be no professional service of the National Assembly of Comment, and there will be no need to amend it on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u124	Is there anything else the government would like to add to this discussion? If not, I will conclude this debate, with this second reading of the bill. The amendments have not been tabled, so it is not possible to discuss them either. This will break this agenda item and will be completed today as part of the vote at 7.30 p.m. The next item will start at 2.35 p.m. this will be the 13th item of the agenda, addressing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. By then, I will have adjourned the debate or the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u125	Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the Ministry. Good-bye, everyone. We're moving on to 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Health Action Act, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Health Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act is prepared, due to the need to adapt to the acquis of the European Union, in most of its articles. While defining in the terms of working time for healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals the exceptions required in relation to the Labour Relations Act adopted two years ago. Individual solutions in this, or areas governed by law, are the occasional provision of health services to citizens in other Member States in the Republic of Slovenia, this is a matter of short-term health services and where it is necessary to inform the Ministry or the competent chamber. With regard to the regulation of working time for healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals, the law follows the solutions previously introduced by amendments to the Medical Service Act, with regard to the beginning of work, the limitation of overtime to eight hours per week, which must be ensured in at least four months. Then a daily and weekly rest, so it is also possible to work continuously for up to 32 hours and an on-call service where there is a separation of effective and ineffective hours regarding payment. In this regard, let me mention that we have had extensive discussions on this subject also in the previously cited Law on Medical Services, and let me point out that perhaps these debates await us in the near future, as there are also large-scale debates at European Union level, particularly in the field of health care, or whether there will be no need to amend the Directives in this area. The third set of amendments is similar to what I mentioned in the previous law in relation to the pharmaceutical study, i.e. the traineeship for graduate nurses, a graduate midwife, and the study programme is being adequately expanded to provide appropriate practical training and thus the need for additional traineeships is being abandoned. At the same time, studies become appropriate and the relationship between theoretical and practical study is also appropriate. Next, the following set out the basis for the receipt of a list of evidence of qualifications for graduate nurses, graduates of midwives, masters of pharmacies who acquire their qualifications in the Member State of the European Union and in addition to those countries in Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland. These are lists on which persons with these professions will be recognised as qualified for their profession in our country. The maintenance of a register for graduated nurses, graduated midwives and mags shall also be determined. the pharmaceuticals that will be managed by the Ministry before the Constitutional Court until the legal issue is resolved and, in the further phase, these registers will be maintained by the relevant chambers or associations. And in the end, recognition of qualifications to senior nurses and mags. pharmaceuticals which do not meet the requirement to carry out their profession in accordance with the requirements of the acquis of the European Union. This is a transitional period, or for those who have obtained qualifications under the current rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u128	The Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons also considered this proposal at its 39th regular session on 3.12. Representatives of the proposers with the State Secretary in the Ministry of Health, Mag. Simon Vrhunce, representatives of the State Council, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Medical Chamber, Fides, the Association of Doctors and Dentists of Slovenia, the Chamber of Health Care of Slovenia and the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia, and the Union of Nurses and Medical Technicians of Slovenia. On the proposal for a law, the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspects, and has commented on Articles 1, 8 and 14. The broad debate took place on the Committee at Article 4 and the amendment tabled and on the proposals for amendments to the Committee setting out a time period in which the time limit for full-time work is taken into account as an average work obligation. The members of the Committee supported the proposal that this period should not be longer than 4 months. They also adopted a proposal for an amendment to the Committee to make it clear by consensus the weekly number of hours that workers still agree on in health activities and the consensus must be written. In the context of the debate on Article 5 of the draft law and the proposed amendments, the view was expressed that the division of duty into effective and ineffective hours does not have a basis in labour law and that all hours of duty are included in working hours or working hours. In the context of the longer debate on Article 8 and the proposal for amendments to the Committee, there remained open questions regarding the granting of public authority to maintain a register of health workers and the power to grant individual work permits to nurses and midwives in the Health Care Chamber. In fact, the School of Health keeps a register for 98% of all staff in health care and for 10 years, and it has a code of ethics for nurses and health technicians of Slovenia, as the European Union knows. The members of the Committee agreed that further consideration should be given to this issue and appropriate amendments should be made, pending consideration of the draft law at the plenary session. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party has proposed to the Committee proposals for amendments to Articles 6, 7, 8 and 14, but the Committee has not taken them. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all the amendments tabled. The amendment was drafted and adopted by the amendment to Article 11 of the amendment. After the discussion, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons also drafted its amendments, namely the seven amendments to Article 4, the amendment to Article 5, the amendment to Articles 9 and 11.The Committee also adopted or approved all the articles of the bill, all of which the Committee adopted was an integral part of the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We will hear below the position of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will present to us the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you very much for saying so, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and his assistants, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This novel also brings alignment with the legal order of the European Communities. It regulates the occasional exercise of the healthcare profession of citizens from other EU Member States. It provides them with the same position as our citizens, both in rights and in duties, responsibilities and respect for professional behaviour. It also regulates the mutual recognition of qualifications between other Member States or the country with which the EU has concluded an agreement on mutual recognition of qualifications. The novelty also regulates the labour relations of health workers. Following the entry into force of the Labour Relations Act, which does not contain specific provisions for workers in health care, this content should be regulated in a specific law. The novel defines the following: on-call, constant preparedness and way to ensure continued provision of medical care for healthcare professionals and co-workers, as already regulated for doctors and dentists in the Medical Service Act. The Novela also brings changes for the 2004/2005 study year in the study programmes for graduate nurses, graduate midwives and Masters of Pharmacy. In particular in the area of the relationship between the theoretical and practical work of the programmes. Therefore, they also abolish their traineeships at the end of 2010. In order to comply with the European acquis, the qualification of the Master of Pharmacy is introduced in place of a graduate farm engineer. It's a professional name. All these corrections are necessary because of our close EU membership. Therefore, we will not oppose these changes and additions in the New Slovenia Group. However, we must say that we do not agree with the work of the Ministry of Health. Corrections to laws are made to the National Assembly at the last minute. Many times they are poorly prepared, and this certainly does not give the Ministry a good assessment. In addition, we know that the Health Act requires in-depth substantive reconstruction, particularly in the area of health care and where it could be found. However, the Ministry of Health does not seem to be able to find enough time for the writing of this law to go to all areas. In the National Assembly, we are often faced with the patching of laws, so I wonder how long this ministry will continue to serve such practices, since we know that the old clothed dress cannot serve as well as the new one. In the parliamentary group of laws, which comes to the National Assembly after a reduced procedure and because it conforms to European standards, we will not object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented to us by Mr Marko Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, your honors are here! We are glad to finally have a law before us, which also regulates working hours for nurses, medical technicians, midwives, and all other health personnel. A fair trade union of health workers can be angry with the government. While we adopted changes to the law on medical care to pressure doctors quickly, we adapted the working hours of doctors to new working laws, taking into account the wishes of doctors. Sadly, though, it has once again proved to be who has power and who does not. It took months to get on the table also this bill regulating working time and the rights of healthcare professionals resulting from it. But we believe that this is mainly the responsibility of adapting to European directives, as is the government's excessive concern for these workers. The health care sector is one of the specific areas in terms of working categories. Health care should be provided 24 hours a day. However, those employed in this activity are concerned with man’s greatest good, health, and people expect superhuman efforts to be always understanding, compassionate, kind, willing to help and be particularly sensitive to their conduct and conduct. The worker can only meet these qualities if he has enough time to rest and family in addition to working hours. However, both the work of doctors and other health workers is important for the smooth work of healthcare in the country. The effective work of doctors without the help of nurses, medical technicians and other staff cannot be imagined. Therefore, the government’s behavior was even more unusual when it proposed a change to the law on medical care and thus changed the working time for doctors and the rest of the staff remained the same. We believe that this law will make appropriate adjustments to the working hours of doctors without violating the worker's rights. In the course of the debate so far, it has been shown that a number of other issues that need to be finalised in health legislation have been the collection of various health professions, the supervision of the exercise of an activity, the protection of the self-employed professions and the like. We hope that the government will take these pressing issues seriously and thus end the long-standing failure of individuals and associations to regulate these areas. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the proposed law because we believe it will finally regulate and harmonise working conditions for other medical professions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, we've got a change of the Health Act ahead of us. Part of these changes are based on an attempt to comply with European legislation or with the requirements of the Accession Treaty, and part of the amendments is based on a vision of the Minister as to how these matters should be regulated. Not those things that Europe requires, but our Slovenian situation. And in this part, things are kind of strangely set. I'd like to give you two examples. A new Article 52a is to be written. And in this article, among other things, I quote: "When the work of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals is closely linked to the work of a doctor, the beginning of their working hours is adjusted to the working time of a doctor." And here I'm wondering, what about the lab? Perhaps the minister should also write that the laboratory should adjust to the working hours of the infirmary. Patients from the infirmary want to go directly to the lab. Still, probably cleaners, because the cleaners, while the infirmary is open, can't work. And it should be noted that the working time of the cleaners should also be adjusted to the working time of the physician. What about the doorman and the phone guy? Yeah, let's move on. Next, the law states: "In outside the hospital activities intended for services to users, this is in an outpatient activity, at least one fifth of the working hours must take place after the sixteenth hour. What hours? Doctor, nurses, cleaners, telephone operator Why the working time of all doctors, each doctor especially after 16 hours. [[...]] Why don't the director sort his own people out? Next. In the following paragraph, the Article states that workers may be deployed in alterations due to the greatest possible exploitation of premises and equipment. Yes, dear God! Does this law have to provide that they can be arranged in alterations? And even more so that in special cases he can start work before eight o'clock. Yeah, and a lot of work has to start at 7:00, and the doorman has to be there two hours early. These are things that don't belong to marriage. They don't belong in law, it's one of the basic mistakes of the minister's vision of regulating healthcare. I mean, why did I mention in the pharmacy law that it's very good. The pharmacies also have on-calls, and the pharmacies have all these things, and there's nothing in there, nothing in there, nothing in there to do, nothing. How to be an employee cleaner, a coworker, a health worker, and the like. I think the law might be able to determine the opening time of the infirmary. This may be, like the opening hours of the store. But what's going to happen inside, but let's leave it to the director and this famous management. Certainly, there is a big slip and we will write in more detail, in a few years or so next year it will have to be completed or deleted, because if we strictly stick to these provisions, things cannot work. The next issue, which is also somewhat questionable in some way, is Article 7, which deals with professions. Article 7 speaks of our professions and Article 8 speaks of the European Union. And here among our professions for Slovenia from Slovenians for Slovenia are listed only a graduate nurse, a graduate midwife and a Master of Pharmacy. What about physiotherapists, working therapists, laboratory medicine engineers, clinical psychologists, or will this no longer be a solo profession? This will have terrible consequences in the personnel policy of Slovenian health. Is that what the Minister is talking about? There is no explanation for these consequences. I'm sorry. I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u136	Madam President, nicely hailed representatives of the Ministry of Health, warmly welcomed colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, which the Government has put into action following a reduced procedure. The amendments were proposed because the law has so far not clearly and accurately defined on-call services and permanent readiness, allowing for different possible interpretations of working time and in particular abuses. Such a vague definition has also caused a number of disputes, conflicts in the calculation and calculation of hourly rates for payment of salaries, as well as in certain situations the illegal operation of certain departments in individual hospitals. In particular, the designated on-call service causes a number of disputes between employers and employees. With the proposed amendment of the law, a much more detailed and more detailed on-call service shall be determined by dividing the duration of duty into a time when a healthcare professional or a healthcare professional is doing a very effective job and at a time when a healthcare professional or a healthcare professional is ineligible for work during working hours. In particular, the proposed amendment to the law also regulates full-time workloads, which should not exceed an average of eight hours per week in accordance with the European Union Directive. This restriction may be exceeded only by the consent of the worker or healthcare professional. In view of the fact that the law we are considering today has already undergone two important changes that have addressed a similar issue in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the current changes in view of the enormous consensus reached between the social partners, however, this path will be adopted and brought to life in practice. The amended proposal also defines the Institute for the Temporary Provision of Health Services when a healthcare professional, a citizen, a member, a citizen of an EU Member State carrying out a health activity in the territory of another EU Member State and wishing to provide temporary health services in the Republic of Slovenia provides that he must report this to the Ministry of Health or the competent chamber, if he and of course has the public authority to maintain the register. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that such harmonisation of legislation is very important because it equates the possibilities of members and citizens of the European Union to provide health services with the same rights and obligations as other countries of the Republic of Slovenia. It is very important for us that healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals work in a public health service network which is regularly monitored and planned to ensure that the working time they perform is evenly or unevenly allocated during working hours according to the needs arising from space. The working time is adjusted to the working time of all employees, as well as to the working time of the doctor. The law also provides that services for users must be provided for at least one fifth of the working time in non-hospital activities and must be carried out after 16 hours. The law also sets out in more detail the qualifications of other health workers, such as nurses, a graduate midwife, a Master of Pharmacy, and identifies which data must be provided in the register and the storage method and data, and how it possesses them to all those it needs for official purposes either in the country or abroad. Given that this bill has received a lot of feedback, as well as positive reflections, we have decided in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats to support the present amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President, once again. With the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law that we are currently considering, the last alignment with the legal order of the European Union is being carried out in certain health activities, at least as regards the provision of traineeships and the pre-accession treaty to the European Union, on the free movement of services. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we understand, as we can almost say, the fundamental objectives and purpose of the bill, in particular the regulation and determination of the working time of healthcare workers and workers, in order to ensure an uninterrupted level of healthcare, which also coincides with the adopted Directives of the European Union. However, the solutions proposed are completely inconsistent with the basic provisions of the Labour Relations Act, in particular in the Service Regulations. And thus, in defining the time of duty for an effective and ineffective period, which causes many objections by employees. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we regret that the proposal for amendments in all the content of the amendments, if nothing else has been done, because of the fundamental two principles that form an integral part of life in the European Union, as seen through the regulation of the common conditions, namely partnership and subsidiarity, has not served and has not established a genuine and necessary dialogue with the individual institutions established in the health system, and has left at least a part of what governs the internal self-organisation of the individual institution. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for an amended law, which has changed its character through a number of arguments both on the side of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and on the part of many and in the discussion of the existing institutions in the field of health care. However, again, we expect the Ministry of Health to prepare more thorough amendments to the Health Act, and to give details on the chapter on the organisation of a specific health field. We will also support the amendments of the four groups of Members, due only to the additional information provided or submitted to us on the necessary additional volume of financial obligations by the State budget, provided that some amendments are adopted by the Committee in the text of the law. However, in this case, we also expect a different regulation, which is certainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and, after some assurance of the approach to solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Mario Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, secretary, secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act, which was tabled by the Government following a reduced procedure in the parliamentary procedure, complements the law in force with regard to the working time of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals, which has not yet been established by the law in force. It also aligns itself with the European acquis. The new Labour Relations Act allows working relationships to be regulated, especially in health care, even in a specific law. Accordingly, we have arranged working hours for doctors and dentists in the medical service law, which we adopted last summer at the beginning of this year. The reasons for amending and supplementing the current Health Act are seen by the proposer in the fact that the law does not accurately define the on-call service and the permanent readiness, allowing different interpretations of working time, the rights arising in particular, the withdrawal and payments for such works. We agree with this in the LDS Group because the Health Action Act needs to be aligned with the Medical Service Act. The aim of the applicants, regulating the working time of healthcare professionals and healthcare professionals, is therefore to adapt the working time of doctors in order to provide continuous healthcare and to regulate working hours as laid down in the Directive of the European Union. The proposed amendment of the law therefore provides for a more detailed on-call service. In accordance with the European legal order, on-call time is fully included in the working hours and on-call payments depend on the extent to which a healthcare worker or healthcare professional is employed. Preparedness when the worker is not in the workplace means that a healthcare professional or healthcare professional must be constantly available for the assistance of the doctor and the medical team or for advice. The amendment of the law also specifically regulates full-time labour burdens, which should not exceed an average of eight hours per week in accordance with the Directive. This restriction may be exceeded only by the consent of a healthcare professional or a healthcare professional. Amendments to the law are also necessary because the current study programmes for graduate nurses, graduated midwives and Masters of Pharmacy do not comply with the Directives laying down minimum conditions for education to obtain professional qualifications and will therefore be amended in the 2004/05 academic year. Therefore, the proposed amendment abolishes the traineeship for graduate nurses, graduates of midwives and masters of pharmacies who will be enrolled in higher education in the academic year 2004/2005 or later, while at the same time the study programmes are changing. Since the Act on Health Activities with the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union will also apply to other citizens of the Member States of the European Union, a new chapter on health workers who have acquired a qualification in the European Union with the title of Master of Pharmacy, a graduate nurse and a graduate midwife has been introduced. After a number of consultations in the LDS Group, we considered the draft law as a necessity to comply with the Medical Service Act in order to avoid different interpretations. In addition, as of 1 May 2004, the Republic of Slovenia will be a full member of the EU and it is so important that the provisions of both laws, namely the Medical Service Act and the Health Act, are in line with the European legal order. We will support the bill in the LDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague, colleague! It is true that this law is about harmonisation with the European Union. However, the harmonisation offered by this law is not perfect. Now I'm going to prove very briefly and argumentatively why not. The Directives of the European Union provide for five regulated professions in health care. It's a doctor, a dentist, a pharmacist, a graduate nurse, and a graduate midwife. According to our data of these five, only the status of a graduate nurse and a graduate grandmother is not regulated and the rest are supposed to be. The Ministry states that the Health Care Chamber will be arranged with the Chambers of Other Health Professionals, which, of course, are not among regulated professions and we cannot objectively compare them. Such a fact, according to some, proves the underestimation of the healthcare profession, and merely the search for excuses for professions in Slovenia not to be valid, such as the profession in the European Union. However, the consequences of this situation are that there is no professional supervision of healthcare providers and therefore the safety of patients is reduced. There is also no register covering data on the performance of individuals in accordance with professional ethics. There is no formal expert interlocutor of the Chamber, which assesses, namely that it is probably already; this is their assessment of the Ministry, but it does not want to. In the White Paper, the Ministry of Health states that Slovenia is on the European average with regard to the number of nurses, meaning that we are on this average that we have, I think, 700 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants according to this data. According to some, data are also used in the healthcare sector, namely the number of all healthcare workers, and not only those who can carry out this profession independently, as regulated by the European Union. If I had taken into account the fact that I mentioned it, taking into account the correct data, we would have found that the figure is real, that we have 200 nurses per 100,000 inhabitants in Slovenia under European Union regulation, which means that it is almost three times lower than in the European Union. According to many nurses who are also involved in the life of people's health in Slovenia, they lack and estimate that, like doctors, they should also agree on employment with them. However, another issue raised by all involved is the issue of the health register. The register, as proposed by the Ministry, is technically weak and incomplete, according to the assessment of those with whom we have also discussed this law. Nor would the Ministry have an answer to the question of how it intends to collect the data already available to it, for example. In short, these figures point to some simple facts that the Ministry of Health does not accept health care as an equivalent profession in the health sector, as it does not fall within the regulated professions of the European Union, according to proposals after application, as stated by the interlocutors who estimate that it is also under-appreciating. The fact that this is the case is that certain sections of legislation have not been informed nor have they been invited to cooperate. While we are aware in the Slovenian National Party that when Slovenia enters the European Union, the rule applies, if you want to join the club, then you must respect their rule. This means that directives require regulation of this area [[End warning sign]] - I conclude - that is why we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. We stress, however, that, with the proposed amendments and additions that we have tabled, we want to contribute and help the spouses to be as complete and ready as possible to enter. Thank you so much for listening to me and for the stolen seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will now move to a debate and a decision on the articles and the amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.12.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the four coalition groups. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment to this Article of the same motions. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. With the amendment, it is proposed that on-calling as a special form of work be defined as consisting of hours of presence at the workplace - these are supposed to be ineffective hours - and hours of service, which should be effective hours. I ask the amendments to what is the difference between the presence at the workplace and the provision of services? Because I can't imagine providing services outside the workplace. Of course, a job, say, an ER, what do I know, on the road, an accident, is also a job. I do not see the difference between presence at the workplace and the provision of services, as services are provided at the workplace. And it is quite clear that the presence in the workplace, the working time in which the worker is available to the employer. If he gives him a job, it's a job, it's an effective job, he does work, if he doesn't get to work, it's a job for the employer and his bad organization. That's why I'm talking about it. This thinking, which we see here, of course, sums up the well-known thinking of our Minister. In fact, these things, I reiterate, do not belong to marriage. It is only about offering the key to financing the on-call service. Surely the duty station is burdened differently, or those carrying it out are burdened differently. For example, traumatology is probably years and working and standing all night, another, perhaps in dermatology, is less burdensome. However, it is not a matter of labour law, it is not a matter of this law, it is a matter of collective agreement, a method of payment and so on. This, of course, is not a harmonisation with the European Union, which is part of that set of amendments to the law, which has grown from some ideas on how the Slovenian health service should be regulated. In Europe or in the countries of the European Union, there has already been a number of case law on this subject, and this case law has been established, namely, where full-time recognition is required, regardless of whether a worker or an on-call worker is on duty or is looking at air, and the payment must not depend on these different current burdens in order to share on-calls with an effective and ineffective nature. Courts, European courts have, in some cases, clearly ruled for the benefit of the worker and, of course, workers have been reimbursed all back with late interest. Gentlemen, this law is the seventh novel, the seventh "g", the law on health care, the seventh novel. And I'm sure it'll be "e novel" next year. As soon as we are in the European Union, we will have to change that too. Because the system law will probably not last long, even though the minister promised last spring that we would have a systemic health law by the end of the year, health, I don't know what to call it. He said this, he promised last year when you rejected our proposal for a system law, it was promised that by the end of last year or early this year. This spring was said by the end of this year. It will probably be said by the end of next year. We certainly expect an "e" variant, which is probably after joining the European Union. Of course, we do not support such an approach, so we will not support this amendment, because we do not want them to smile again in some way and things that do not belong in the law, but in the collective agreement, in the payment of the on-call service and so on. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So we can't take these things into our marriage. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. Then Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u146	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to add an explanation. Although we had the same opportunity to explain with the same arguments in the Medical Service Act. First of all, it is clear and in accordance with European legislation that on-call work is counted during working hours or during working hours. However, this means that, on the basis of this, the rights to rest are also justified, but not that this would also determine the amount of the remuneration for such work. Since the Labour Relations Act has not been introduced, it has not introduced a specification of different forms of work over working time, without a specific definition of duty being divided into periods of time when the worker is prepared but not working and at a time when he is working, of course, could mean an interpretation that such work is equivalent to other parts when the work is carried out, and when such work is also possible to be defined, measured and also rewarded equally or better than in regular working hours. That is why we do not only think that this is necessary, nor do we introduce a new terminology. This terminology has already been present in collective agreements, and in this way, perhaps not entirely with the same dictatorship, it has been established only in some European countries, because it is also used in particular for different awards. So the content and the amount of rewards are also left to the collective agreement in our law. This does not seem right to us, but we think that without the introduction of a nomenclature at the level of law there could, of course, be a simplified explanation in this room, only often, perhaps even today to understand that we hear that if you are at work, you are already working by definition. No, because on-call work isn't described in this way that you have to work. Work on duty is also described by being prepared. Anyone who works in health care knows that there is a need for close proximity to a healthcare professional in certain workplaces. And that's why he can't come from home, but he needs to be present at a health facility to shorten the time when he can get to the patient and intervene. It is understandable, though, that while he waits, he may also be able to carry out other duties and so forth. That's why we think it makes a lot of sense for this divorce to remain. The financial burden, which would have been carried out in a different way, let's say that all the on-call work would have been equal to the overtime, the Member is known to mean a large sum of money, because, of course, it would not have been just this law and it would not have been just nurses and health workers and co-workers, but it would have been directly passed on to everyone else, of course, I mean doctors here in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, as the Minister has already said, it is a special condition of duty, which is paid differently. It can't be paid as regular hours, and it can't be paid as a surrogate, but it has to be, as with doctors, paid differently, overtime and regular hours - so to speak. That's the way it's supposed to be with the nurses. If we leave it the way it is, eventually we get that it's overtime over those regular hours. Well, I don't think there's a lot more doctors. What's this job? Is it a hospital or is it an operating room, like, for instruments? So, as a job, I consider it to be coming to the hospital, and that he's in the hospital, that he's there, that he's on two meters, or that he's on fifteen. But if we take the instrumentary, when she's on duty, she's in her room, and she can rest there without saying she's asleep. He also has an operating room where he goes to work when he has to. So, the watch of the instrumentation I take as an example is partly in the rest room, I'll say, and it's partly used when there's an intervention to be done. It's an on-call, but it can't be paid as a turd all because you're in the hospital. It can't be done, it can't be done. We have agreed long ago that we have paid a variety of regular hours and overtime and that we also have a different payment between doctors themselves. This is also true for a nurse, because it is different to be on duty in the O.R., so to speak, instruments. Otherwise it is to be on duty for the entire hospital as it happens in our peripheral hospitals that you have a senior nurse on duty for all departments. I mean, there's got to be a difference. It's a payday. How do you get to the watch? It comes from practice. I mean, there's a job in surgery that carries, I don't know, five hours of effective work, it's called, you're in surgery rooms, and the rest of the hours you don't work. There's probably less effective hours on the occult, so you're doing some kind of intervention. Maybe even less in dermatology - let me be forgiven by all those who work there - or by the boarding school if you want. It's different, but it's all running. Actually, we don't have anything here. It's all running. It wasn't just in the marriage. Dr. Tuckati, I agree with you that a collective agreement could do this. I mean, those things, those on-call hours. But sometimes it's good that it's also legally restricted or one or the other. And in the end, I agree with you. I hope we don't get a version of this law in about a month, which is possible. But I hope it is, if not the other four mandates, that this is the last option. That's right. But as far as being on duty is concerned, I disagree with you. And me and I will support the amendment's new proposal, because it actually cripples the one that's running now. Now. It's in the labs, too. And there's one more thing I'd like to tell you. You know, sometimes this happens in labs, as well as in senior nurses. But in labs, you have an engineer, a lab technique, I don't know what it's called, an on-call, and a regular lab guy, but they have the same number of recognized duty hours and the same pay. So, there's no difference in qualifications. If someone's an engineer to get because they have a higher salary, I mean a higher watch, but the same as the one with a lower education, the same. I think it's also a fair watch. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ordered by a doctor. [[...]] Why the doctor? Because he's still a health care provider, and he's got to be around him. Not to brag here, I don't know what, but it has to.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We are, of course, establishing a starting point for this amendment, as proposed under the basic proposal of Article 5. In view of the fact that Article 5 is thus laid down, the first paragraph of Article 53, as supplemented by the proposal of the law, entails a large financial liability. That is why we, as I have already said in the presentation of the Group of Members, will support this amendment. I'm sorry. However, I firmly believe that this area also needs to be regulated differently. Don't let the Minister understand the mistakes. But this is a thing we can't put in one basket. We cannot combine all professions, all circumstances in health activities with a single provision of a single law. We can't. This should simply be left to the subsidiarity dialogue at the level of the employer and the employees who are organised. For the first time, they are organized into a professional association, such as chambers. Others are organised as trade unions as a genuine approach to the organisation of trade union sense. I am sure that this approach will have to change, change, redefine sooner or later, if we say so, not to poor health care or to worse for the state budget. But to let go of this genuine self-organization in some institution. That's the way everything is. It can't be any different. I can't write it all down. On the contrary, as colleague Mario, I am confident that in the year ahead of us, in this mandate, and I also expect to receive at least one more amendment to the Health Action Act, with which we will go a little bit further into the chapter of the Parliamentary Organisation in the system of a particular professional field, if I say so and leave some more dialogue within the individual institution. If we can call it that. Partnership, as in Europe, is established in terms of the economic social world. It's a little different here. It's also a different substitute if I call it that, but without it, there's not gonna be a sound. So I'll support the amendment. But I think it's also the area that's going to have to be settled in the law. Now, shall we succeed in this mandate? But I do know that the sooner the sooner the approach here will have to change its course a little bit. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much! I can close the debate. So I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 7.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and inform you that at 4:10 p.m. we will move on to the 14th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the medical service law. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u152	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr Minister, representative and representative of the government, a nice greeting! Let's get back to work. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Dusan Keber, Minister of Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u153	Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act regulates certain provisions and definitions that are also necessary to comply with the European Union acquis. In this case, in particular, it is the area of the professional names of dentists, and we must admit that, unlike doctors, we have been rubbing a number of nuts with our representatives of this profession over the past two years. In doing so, it turns out that because of the already-consumed term Doctor of Dentistry, this term can no longer exist with us as a diplomat in this university. Before that, the title of Doctor of Dental Science was introduced in the law on professional titles. In the field of professional titles, which are governed by the relevant directive or accession contract only for dentists and not for doctors, negotiations have taken place literally. First within our country and then between us and the European Union, what should be the real title. You could be, if I said today, the real name is also a dentist. As well as the doctor's real name for the job in this job. However, there was no alignment with our dentists, who at the time explained that this word was bad for their profession and insisted that the professional name was also called the professional name, that is, the doctor of dental medicine. For comfort and comfort, let me just say that we are not the only country that has actually made a complication in this area. I am confident that the term dentist for the profession will be preserved in the human language. We have, for example, as a fine example Belgium, which has also chosen a complicated title for a profession, not for a professional title. It's a license in dental science. We could list a few more countries. Of course, I can also mention Germany, which in this area has "Zahnartz", which was, as I said, rejected by the profession. It is precisely because of these long-standing negotiations that I could say that this law seems so small to have reached the very end of the list of harmonisation laws in the area covered by the Ministry of Health. This law then appropriately applies this nomenclature, doctor of dental medicine in some other articles. I think it's consistent through the entire text. Otherwise, other branches of the law still regulate, define definition, qualifications, that is, education and qualifications. Article 5 shall specify the conditions or who performs a medical or dental service by giving a professional and professional address. Article 12 also discusses certificates relating to qualifications acquired and issued by the Ministry of Health to doctors and dentists who will leave or wish to go abroad and will be able to demonstrate their professional competence there, taking into account the requirements of the Directives of the European Union. The same is true for doctors and doctors of dental medicine who will come from other countries to Slovenia. Then it is only to improve the text, to temporarily withdraw the language licence, because we had to, as a result of the previous amendments to the law, not only the Slovenian language, but in the area of minority regions also for other languages. Therefore, we have also amended the provision concerning the temporary withdrawal of the licence to a doctor who does not fulfil this condition.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much! The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. The Committee's report will be presented to us by the committee president, Mr Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The last draft law in the package of laws dealt with by the parent body at its 39th regular meeting on 3 and 4.12. Representatives of the proposers and the State Secretary, Mr Mag, took part in the meeting of the Committee. Simon Vrhunce, head of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, representatives of the Medical Chamber and representatives of FIDES, the Medical and Dental Union of Slovenia. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. This proposal for a law has been examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and has made comments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 and 8. In particular, on the basis of comments from the legislative and legal services, the four coalition groups tabled amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7. However, it must be said that the proposal for the text of the proposed law has been coordinated practically until the Committee's hearing begins and the Committee has therefore adopted a number of amendments. Several amendments made previously applied applicants irrelevant. In the debate on Article 1 and the amendment tabled, it was particularly stressed that titles by law should be used in this law and professional titles should be used in places where it is substantively appropriate. With regard to the purpose of the legal service, which considered that it was not justified in this article to state both dentists and dental doctors at the same time, because of the use of terminology from two different systems, the Committee has drafted its amendment. The drafter of the law agreed with the amendment, since it is the only one that takes over the pre-accession treaty to the European Union. In the debate on Article 4, it was proposed that certificates of qualifications obtained by the competent Ministry should be issued except for those certificates issued by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia on the basis of the exercise of public powers. The proposal by the representatives of the Medical Chamber, which participated fully in the proposal for a law, was not adopted. However, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out that such adoption or adoption could be contrary to the legal system. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee received the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 7 and drafted them. The other amendments, as I said earlier, have become irrelevant because the Committee has drafted its amendments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5 and 8 by working with the applicant. The Committee has also voted on all the articles submitted and everything it has voted is an integral part of the amended bill. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will present to us the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Here you go. Mr. Dorian Marshich, you can turn off the microphone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. This legal novel additionally lays down the conditions for obtaining qualifications for the independent work of doctors and dental doctors. However, the procedure for issuing certificates of qualifications obtained shall be laid down by the Minister of Health. It is also complemented by the provision on when a doctor’s or doctor’s dental medicine licence is temporarily withdrawn. In the European Union, the professional and professional title is strictly separated. Such a concept requires the rule of law of the European community also from us. Since it was agreed in the pre-accession contract that a professional and professional address as a doctor of dental medicine would be used as a dentist, this is coordinated in this novel. Dentistry is one of the types of specialties in the EU, so our dental study programme must also be renamed a dental medicine study programme. With these alignments, we will meet the EU's demands, from which we have been particularly reminded recently that we still do not have this area regulated. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act, and will also support the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us a law that the DZ has already dealt with this year for the third time. The law was adopted in 1999. The first novel was adopted in July 2002 and then recast again in February this year. We adopted an official consolidated text this April. Now we accept the reform of this law again. Everything shows that it is not possible to get ahead of things in this mandate by means of an official purified text. First of all, I would like to point out a very simple matter, with this law missing the word "dental" and we get only Dr. dental medicine. The dentist was thought to be, according to the local word, a useful title, a technical title. However, the doctor of dental medicine was a professional term, or earlier Dr. Dentistry. The doctor remains as a technical name for the doctor and the professional name for the doctor. Here comes some senseless dilemma and dissipation of these terms. The Minister justifies deleting the technical name for dentists by opposing dentists. I don't know which one of the dentists is definitely the dentists who are united in the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, and they didn't ask for it. I don't even know who in the pre-accession contract mentioned or somehow committed himself to being a doctor of dental medicine. But even if it is, and if we have to respect it, it is still not necessary to remove the technical name dentist from our useful language. That won't be necessary. It would also be appropriate here to harmonise fully so that the doctor remains a doctor, the dentist remains a dentist. This as a useful title, the technical title for both shall then be used as a professional title as otherwise proposed. We believe that it is possible that this is not contrary to the Directives, to both directives of the European Union and that nothing prevents us from maintaining a dentist in the working language in a useful way. I must say that the Medical Chamber received a draft law on 22 July of this year, where the Ministry asked for an opinion and the Chamber replied 28.7. This is said five days after she received the material, on July 28th, but as the Medical Chamber says, a completely third text came into the National Assembly. As a result, this was an awkward misunderstanding on the committee where a representative of the Chamber wanted to amend or supplement the text with some amendments. I think that, however, in terms of titles that have no budgetary implications and no, I don't know what they are, they would not interfere with health policy, in any matter, but it would be wise to take this initiative as defined in the amendment and to maintain such a healthy relationship. Let it remain in the useful language for our domestic legislation, because this law does not speak only of the EU, but also of our internal affairs. Keep the doctor and dentist as a useful technical name, professional title, as proposed, namely doctor of medicine or doctor of dental medicine. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Coherence would certainly be more lifelike and even more useful. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A well-known minister and co-worker, dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services, which was transmitted by the Ministry of Health to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The present law is also one of those laws that we are amending in order to comply with other laws and the legal order of the European Union. The law represents less difficult alignment with the acquis of the European Union. It refers to the conditions for doctors or dentists and dentists when they are allowed to carry out their profession on their own, when they have the appropriate education and qualifications listed in the register. In this way a licence was also issued by the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. With the proposed amendments and additions, the title of the study programme and the professional title for the profession of dentist is deleted in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Professional and Scientific Addresses. The name of the dental study programme will be renamed dental medicine, and after completion of the study, the graduate will obtain the professional title "Doctor of dental medicine" and after the final training and professional examination he will perform a profession called "Doctor of dental medicine", which does not mean that the term "dental medicine" will disappear from life. It's likely that people will still use it. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union should provide for the provision of an automatic recognition, education and training for the profession of 'doctor dentist', which is obtained or recognised in the Member States of the European Union by means of the proposed law, laying down the legal basis for a sub-legislative act taking over the content of the European Directive. This act will definitively define the type of education and competence to indicate the competent authority issuing the diploma or other appropriate evidence and the specification and use of the professional title. Among other things, the duration of the study in the Medical Faculty will be determined in accordance with the Higher Education Act and other important matters relevant to the regulation of this area. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support the present law, as it represents only one additional step before the entry into the European Union and, last but not least, the regulation of the area in a more clear and transparent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented to us by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the proposal for a law, since the proposal for this law will practically align itself with the law on professional scientific titles as regards the title of the study programme and through this professional title or the title for the profession of dentist as it is also aligned with the content of the pre-accession treaty to the EU. However, in the parliamentary group, despite numerous tests on how to improve the text of Article 1, the proposed solutions to Article 1 are not best covered or used strictly by the definition of professional and scientific titles under the law on professional and scientific titles, but are once used as a technical term and secondly as a doctor of dental medicine, which is in line with the definition in the pre-accession treaty to the EU. This law essentially lays down the legal basis for this, perhaps the last sub-legislative provision of this area, which will regulate or adopt the content of the law in accordance with the 78th and 92nd EU Directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Mario Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, co-workers, colleagues and dear colleagues. So, from the package of health laws submitted by the Government for this session of the National Assembly for consideration, we now have before us a law on changes and additions to the Law on Medical Services. The draft law aligns the current law on medical services with the law on professional and scientific addresses and EU directives by removing the name of the study programme and the professional title for the dentist profession. The name of the dental study programme will thus be renamed dental medicine. After the completion of the study, the graduate will obtain the professional title of a doctor of dental medicine and will perform the profession of dental medicine after the completion of his apprenticeship and examination. As the Republic of Slovenia enters the European Union, automatic recognition of education and training for the profession of a doctor and dentist acquired or recognised in the Member States of the European Union should also be regulated. The bill will determine the duration of the study in the medical school, so that university studies in public higher education institutions take between four and six years to obtain university education. Some disagreements are in harmony with the law itself and with other laws. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Furthermore, the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you, Madam President. Say hello to the guests again! Colleagues and colleagues have already stated all the objectives, principles and main solutions to the bill, so I do not want them and will not repeat them. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the substance of this proposal is the law on amendments and additions to the law that, if it is already the decision to join the European Union, the entry of an automatic recognition of education and training, which is a major problem for many people today. In addition, a major change is also expressed by harmonising the duration of a study at the Medical Faculty, which our proposal for a law or a competent ministry has summarized under the European Directive and has been defined by six years or 5,500 hours. It is true, however, that the legislative and legal service had a number of important comments, which were also summarised by the mother's working body. Following this summary, we have assessed in the Slovenian National Party that it is appropriate to support the law. However, there is one question, namely the degree of coordination that is determined whether it is harmonised or partly harmonised or not, by some law in a Member State of the European Union. However, it is still partially harmonised, which tells us that this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law, which is probably not the only one and will be repeated. Regarding the change, he's called a doctor of dental medicine. Whether it is right to call it that or not on the basis of the European directives, the Slovenian National Party considers it irrelevant. But we are confident that for many years we will all talk about going to the dentist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We will now turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments, of 16.12.2003, which we have tabled to three articles. The amendment is proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, noting that the amendment has been tabled under Article 1, which has a substantive link with the amendments under two and four. So first, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u169	You just said, Madam President, that this is a related amendment. In fact, it is only one question whether or not to maintain a useful technical term for dentist in the internal legal order. We think we can keep it. The maintenance of this title is in no way contrary to the directives governing the regulated profession of dentists. In fact, we also read many times in the accession treaty, or the accession treaty uses the word dentist in several places. Regarding the title of formal dental education itself, as the text of the accession contract states, I quote: "The professional title of a doctor of dental medicine is used for a diploma." This is said to be the only thing required by the accession contract and does not require the deletion of the use name dentist. We believe that this should be taken into account. As with doctors we have maintained in addition to the professional title Doctor of Medicine, including the use name Doctor, it would be good to maintain this as well. We believe that this would not make the marriage any worse, or that the whole issue would also be solved. All other problems are adequately solved. If the amendments are accepted, we will support the law. However, I call or invite other Members that we do not, in fact, delete this title and burden our health care system needlessly with regard to the loss of a title, which is, in fact, very domestic to all, both operators and users.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u171	Allow me to comment on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I think in my introduction I have said that I agree with the content or sound reasoning of this proposal. However, it must be said that in a process that is not this year's, but is now years ago, we have written in the pre-accession contract the title, the professional name Doctor of Dental Medicine. Now that we have also come before you as a proposaler with both the names dentist and doctor of dental medicine, we have been warned for legal reasons, both by the legislature of the National Assembly and by the European Union, that it is impossible to do so at this time without changing what would be a bizarre pre-accession treaty of Slovenia, which would be a precedent, even because it has already been ratified in several countries. So it is simply necessary to have a patient at this time. I know the Belgians aren't happy with their solution either. But I'm sure this law doesn't speak or eliminate the technical term dentist. Nobody does, but only in this law that they can understand right now in the European Union. It's like we're bringing a name back through the side door that will once again constitute a barrier to the transfer of personnel. This time we have to keep this, I'll say, a uniform dictatorship. Although I agree with her myself that she's awkward. The future will certainly show that it will change on the first occasion at this point, and it will be preserved in our everyday language anyway. By allowing me to say, I believe that the possible adoption of any of these three amendments for the European Union would constitute a lack of alignment of this law with the pre-accession treaty and would cause us considerable problems. This is how we were informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So the original sin was committed at the time of the negotiations. But, as you said before, Mr. Secretary, you only did it on the basis of the profession of brushing the dentist, the dentist. There's some excuse for that. Otherwise, our Group of Members, myself personally, will not support this. That's because then we'd have a very big problem with that contract. So we should change this contract. But I think this name will certainly be preserved by the dentist. We'll probably get to him again, but I'm interested in how the profession could have declared it. Well, I don't want to be a dentist anymore, but I want to be a doctor of medicine, either because of the profession itself, I mean as a title, and it's also in practice. Well, I don't know, I almost don't believe it, I'd say. But I think we are now ahead of the fact and that we would probably support this amendment if we didn't have this in front of us, that we have to ratify this treaty and sort these things out. So for now, we will oppose the first amendment, or all others, that are related to the first one.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u175	Well, once again, I would say that the signed accession contract also uses the name dentist, at least the Slovenian translation uses. All the countries just named their professions. However, it should be borne in mind that the relationship with Europe is very clear, including on our proposal that dentists should be allowed to carry out dental services and so on if they have obtained a doctor's degree in dental medicine and are also doctors of dental medicine. In communication with Europe, they are doctors of dental medicine. For this reason, however, it is not necessary in this law, which is intended for us, including the Slovenes, to say, to our legal order, to delete the Slovenian words, because in fact from our amendment it would result in the translation of the term doctor of dental medicine into Slovenian, into a useful language, into a dentist. Nothing else. Dentistry is a Slovenian word. However, we can say how a matter is practically translated. So I think, I still believe that this would not be contrary to the signed contract and would not be contrary to the requirements. All things are arranged. This professional title is also a condition for working in Europe. This condition must also be fulfilled by a stranger when he comes to us. And it's all coordinated. But as I said, the amendment is here, the vote will be what it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u177	I do not have the entire English and Slovenian text. However, I would point out that in the English text they speak in the general chapter about "ental practicer", a dental practice such as a maximum general title. Then it is listed how individual countries use their professional names. At this point where it says, say, for Germany, as we said, "zahnarzt", writes for Slovenia a doctor of dental medicine. So we have studied very carefully, Dr. Tsukati, all the possibilities that even with a special visit to Brussels we would have every opportunity to solve this complication. However, we have found that it is best to maintain this, as we propose now in the latest version.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment. I am opening the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the same motions. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want a word? [[Not at all.]] I therefore conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 7.30 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government for their cooperation. At 5.30 p.m., we will continue to examine item 15 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u179	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're moving on to 15. It's on the third defensive proposal for a law on the protection of underground pits. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. In our midst, I welcome Mr Mag, Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Janez Kopač, who I give him my word for further explanation of the bill. You have five minutes, Mr. Minister, and a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Members and Members of Parliament. I'm sorry for your breath. I explained in more detail the proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves at the previous meeting of the National Assembly when you adopted the law at second reading. It was a long time ago. I must say that coherence is with all stakeholders, namely the Jamar Association, the Crassus Research Institute and other NGOs that have been interested in this. At the second reading, as you recall, there was a lot of noise around the amendment to Article 15, which summarized the word we proposed in the initial draft law for second reading. On the infrastructure committee, however, it was then changed and we again held a discussion with the Jamarska Association of Slovenia as well as with other interested parties. Therefore, we propose an amendment to article 15, which now provides that the Jamaica Association of Slovenia will perform the examinations for the lobsters and has, by law, this monopoly, according to the letter of the law. While the discussion, which was held in second reading, spoke of the fact that the Jamaican connection to Slovenia was taking away the possibility of education and that it would be passed on to someone else. Ambassador Jelinčič had a whole range of fears about who all of this would have passed on. I must say that we keep in the form of the fuck proposed in the second reading. Since we have subsequently identified the Jamaican Union of Slovenia, it could show you a letter, declares that it has never, and never in history, carried out an education for lobsters. This was never her activity. Not right now. We have therefore foreseen that this education activity is carried out by those who meet the relevant conditions. This can sometimes be the Jamaica Union of Slovenia in the future. While the exams will be conducted exclusively in the Jamaican connection of Slovenia. This is the content of this amendment to Article 15 which, in fact, in my opinion, in a very beautiful way, we are solving in all agreed ways the problem that has arisen in the second reading of Article 15. Then we are adapting the amendment to Article 69, which is almost editorial. If these two are to be adopted, two more editorial harmonisation amendments are needed. I therefore hope that this story or this law, which has now been under consideration for four years in Parliament, will also be concluded. I suggest you support the government's amendment and there's no other way to deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the draft law. First of all, I give my word to my colleague, Aloyz Sok, for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u182	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary! After more than three years, the underground cave protection law receives its final epilogue. The caves are defined under this law as natural public good and the natural values of national importance. So it's owned by the state. The country also owns all cave infrastructure and everything that is in our Slovenian caves. This gives the conditions for the specific use of caves according to their intended purpose. In accordance with this Act, the following activities or conditions for carrying out the following activities will be defined: cave tourism, certain cultural activities in underground caves, scientific research, educational and health activities and drinking water supply activities, etc. In the second reading, we were able to hear that the government has formed this law in agreement with all those who represent anything in this area. With this amendment, which the government has now tabled under Article 15, we also believe in New Slovenia that this will be the case. As this amendment also brings back the basic activity of the Jamarski link Slovenia, which was taken away in the second reading with the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. I would like to say that Slovenian underground caves have another special feature. Perhaps it was because of this specialty that this law was formed for so long, namely, caves are also defined as war graves. Two amendments of New Slovenia were tabled for this law. Both on this subject, connected to the caves as cemeteries. One of these amendments was adopted by the Infrastructure Committee in this direction, so that a religious ceremony can also be carried out in the cave. One amendment, however, was accepted by the National Assembly. However, the government did not oppose this amendment. But she didn't support him either. But it's also possible to exhume bodies in the cave. This seems very important to us. On this occasion, if I succeed, I think I have enough time to read the conclusion and also explain why we think these two amendments are extremely important. I will read the conclusion as the final act of the book's contents entitled "No Mercy", which reads in this Decision: "From the data of the cadastral cave, references in literature and other testimonies it is possible to determine that the occurrence of the use of caves for mass graves during the period 1941-1945 was very widespread. According to the cadastral cave of Slovenia, human remains were found in 86 caves. The number of victims in the caves is undetectable. According to the cadastral data, 15 caves indicate that many people were dumped. Memoar literature estimates that more than 10,000 victims are found in caves. It will not be possible to determine the exact number, as other nations and countries from the Balkan peninsula, such as Serbs, Croats, Albanians and Italians, are also members of the caves. Despite the spread of caves across Slovenian Krass, it is possible to identify some common features of this phenomenon. Based on the number of victims, especially after other procedures and traces, we can separate the caves of the cemetery into several types by way of burial. The remains of the bones of only a few people who were thrown into the pit were usually dressed as tombs likely during guerrilla warfare and revolution or postwar personal reckonings. In these caves no one later covered the tracks, so we find bones on the surface or are covered by natural processes. These caves are usually less known and lie in remote forest areas. Another type of cave is the caves of mass killings. They usually contain the remains of a larger number of people. The killings were organised and lasted for a long time, so it was not possible to keep them secret. It was followed by covering tracks, blasting entrances, or pouring, for decades after the war. Some caves, known as mass graves, have recently become points visited by relatives in the wartime of missing people." So, I read this as the final conclusion from this book to also determine why in New Slovenia it seems extremely important that our amendment was adopted. In this place, I thank all those who have supported these amendments. For this reason, the new Slovenia will also support the law for the protection of underground caves. We will also, as I have already said in the introduction, support the Government's amendment to Article 15, because this amendment restores the competence of the Jamarski Association of Slovenia, in carrying out the examinations for competence in relation to the lobster activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party. Member Group's position, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All the others have a nice greeting! In the parliamentary group, we assess that this law governing the protection of the underworld is appropriate. We will, together with the amendments tabled, support him. We are aware that we must also take a step forward in the area of the protection of our natural heritage. Although Slovenia has a small country, there are many diverse underground caves, where there is an extraordinary wealth, not only of chapels, but also of very rare fauna and flora. Many plant and animal species are located only in us. This only increases the attractiveness and interest of every kind of public for caves, ranging from serious scholars and cave world acquaintances to purely ordinary robbers and destroyers, who, by carrying out the chapels and other specialities, destroy this Slovenian characteristic. We can only regret that in the past, except for a few attractive exceptions, we have not known and have been able to protect and protect effectively enough. Not only have some caves been plundered by unconscious collectors of natural treasures, but many of us have simply used them to put off every kind of cover and acquire the modern world. There are many things in them, from old cars, construction and municipal waste to dead animals, dangerous and special waste. These pose a particular threat and threat mainly to deep water resources, as they can pollute large-scale areas. The recovery of such consequences is also long-lasting. It would also make sense to take a systematic approach to removing these old burdens. We cannot go beyond the fact that, due to the famous events of the past, there will remain a large number of caves unexplored in the southern part of Slovenia. It is also likely that there are large and connected caves with interesting seagulls and cave life. But for the time being, this will remain hidden from our eyes, and that cave world will remain a hidden treasure. I must say, however, that we are somewhat surprised by the position of the Jamarian Union, that China would be a umbrella organization of the Jamarian societies and would not want to gain a more active role, not for itself or for its society. This would belong to both the organization and the society, as they have demonstrated by their active and quality work in the protection, management and supervision of the Jamming Council that we can trust them. We will therefore support the amendment of the law proposed by the Government. As we say, we will uphold the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Ivan Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Too bad it's not Mr. Minister - ah, it is! Mr. Minister has just given me his back, but - good evening to him and to all of us who are sitting in this hall today talking about the underground cave protection law! Twice on the committee and the last time in the hall I spoke about it and said that we can actually be Slovenians proud of our cave world, our underground world. Slovenian names are also used internationally. Crassus is a concept of caveatry, for monstrosity, for karst phenomena in the world. So it's not just our name. The parliamentary group will support the law, and in particular will be pleased to see both amendments drafted by the government. How else should we view chivalry? We can look at the lobster with pride because it was done in our Crassus, in our world, mainly locals, Slovenians, cavemen volunteers, enthusiasts who have walked into caves in all the last few more than a hundred years. They didn't write it down before, but they walked around and just told me where the caves were. In Tolminsk, during the wars, we had a secret company called Krpelj, which had explored many caves that had only just now been described and published by Jamaican societies after World War II. So let's also look at the cavern with national pride and not just some underground space that many of us don't know. A lot of you didn't look, but you got everybody, I think, a book called Our Cave, 44th number, Ljubljana, in 2002. And on page 194, let's just look at a little bit of data. List of all caves in Slovenia, which are more than 300 meters deep - 37. There are 5 of them, which are more than 1,000 meters deep. Whenever you go to Bovec in the valley of Soča, remember that the rhombone has gone inward to the Bovec. The depth of the cave of the Czech Republic is 1,533 metres on the rombon path. The list of all caves in Slovenia, which are more than one km long and these caves are 62 and 5 are more than 10 km long! Really, it's a big underground world that few people know. The Fntusians who went to the caves deserve attention, and that attention was shown to them today when we received from the government a confirmation that there will be a Jamaican alliance in Article 15 that will allow someone to engage in a hole activity. They'll give him a certificate, that's confirmation and recognition, the only recognition the lobsters get in their lives. I would like to stress the following in particular. Three years ago, in an accident in Logo under Mangrt, a stream came from Mangrt Mountain and carried some houses and five people. The first to arrive there were cavemen, trained cave rescuers, who explored these premises and also received five of the four unfortunate ones who lost their lives there. It is nice, Mr. Secretary, that you have written this amendment and we will gladly confirm it, as well as the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thanks, buddy Christmas. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a full debate on the draft law by Members and Members. Comrade Aloys Sok, would you like a word? No, no, no. Janko Weber?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, if we're already in writing. I want to say that I also support this law, because it really solves some problems that could otherwise become unresolved and make the lobsters too exposed. The education and training of lobsters is thus certainly one of the important issues that brings in particular security and, finally, their activities can contribute greatly to the state of the environment, as caves sometimes also reflect what is happening in the environment in which they are located. Also because an agreement has been reached with the Jamar Association of Slovenia to manage certain activities that we have heard are not in the past. I will also support this amendment of the law, because it is obvious that it is a matter of willingness to try to keep the guarantees as organised as possible, and I think that this has also achieved the importance of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you. My friend Davorin Targeton.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I am pleased that I have heard such a high level of consensus by all the parliamentary groups, both on the proposed amendment to Article 15 by the Government and on the law as a whole. We in liberal democracy have already announced at the second reading of the law that for the third reading we will come alone with an amendment that will reintroduce the Jamaican union into the law. Well, then it was coordinated with the government to do it on its own. I must say, it was right that we accepted an amendment as we did in the second reading, which at first sight ruled out the lobster link. Now we have this amendment on the table, and the adoption of this amendment will allow us to keep the Jamaican alliance inside as well as anyone who is the holder of public authority in the management and management of the caves, so that it meets certain conditions. I think that this amendment now embraces all of these criteria and conditions and that the Jamaican alliance remains in place and that a fairly high level of consensus has been reached, so that both the amendment and the law can be fully adopted. We in liberal democracy will certainly confirm both the amendment and the law. I am confident that the adoption of this law will allow for better functioning, detection, demonstration and treatment with caves in the future in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you. I conclude the full debate on the bill. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We will guide it on the basis of a review of the amendments of 16.12.2003. You have two amendments to Article 15 of the Government's amendment and to Article 69 of the Government's amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u192	Unlike my colleague Terchón, I am not so sure that this solution was in the second reading I do not know how carefully thought out. It seems to me that it would be more appropriate to simplify this matter because of the dangers of the activities of the lobsters, of course, so that the Yamara Association will also actually be given the powers to train for the autonomous operation of the lobster. So that would be in one place. I hope that the government, which also gives the public authority to the organisation that will carry out this training for the autonomous operation of the hole, will have this amendment before its eyes, that if there are too many operators of this independent Jamar training, then, of course, there is a great chance that this training will be bad. This will result in even more frequent accidents than we have seen in this Slovenian Jamaica activity so far. However, we are pleased in our party and I see that this was mainly about the efforts of the fellow Member, Mr Bozič, and unfortunately not the Jamarska Association of Slovenia. They are on the Infrastructural Committee, to what extent their representative represented on the Committee of the Jamar Association of Slovenia - stated that the law is harmonised and that what is enshrined in the law is good and that they agree that the Jamar Association of Slovenia, as one who determines the competence of this law, is excluded. My colleague Bozič has always said that this is not the case, and I hope that the government is now, with this amendment, that the Jamaican Union of Slovenia must give this competence to learn and that the ability to learn takes away any other organisations with public authority. They will continue to have the opportunity to provide only training for independent fishing activities. We will support this amendment. And if there's another amendment that's more or less editorial in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u194	Just for an explanation. The President of the Jamari Association, Mr Buskin, represented the Yamara Association and was coordinated with it in the second reading as proposed and coordinated in the third reading. Let me stress once again that this is an activity that has not been carried out by the Jamaican Union at all. However, the Jamaican companies expressed an interest in uniting certificates, if I can simplify it this way. That is why we wrote this down on a single sheet with the Jamaican connection to Slovenia. Training will, of course, be possible in the Jamaican relationship with Slovenia, perhaps in individual societies or perhaps even somewhere at some third end, although there are many possibilities for any additional actors here. So I have to point out that we've been working with our hand in the hand with the lobster bond all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I can conclude the debate on Article 15 and the Government's amendment to this Article. We are moving on to Article 69 and the Government's amendment to this article. Anybody want a word? The amendment is more editorial in nature. [[Nobody.]] I also conclude the debate on Article 69 and the debate on Articles and Amendments in full. The vote on the amendments and the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote at 7.30 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. At 6.20 p.m., we will continue to work, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Social Protection Act. Until then, I welcome you. Thank you, Minister, for your cooperation. I'll see you at 6:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u196	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Third Commentary Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Security Act. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I welcome the representatives of the government, the Secretary of State, Mrs Lidija Apohal Vukovic and the co-worker of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Policy, Mrs Ursula Jerša Jan, State Undersecretary of State. I give the floor to the Secretary of State to further explain the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u197	Dear Members and Members! For the third reading, the Government prepared material for amendments to the Social Protection Act in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly. It also took into account all the amendments adopted at second reading, while proposing two more amendments, which slightly improve the text of the two articles, the two amendments adopted at second reading, the content of which can be further explained later in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you. I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the draft law. Mag. Janez Drobnič will be the first to present the position of Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, government representatives! With amendments to the Social Protection Act, Slovenia is expected to make some improvements, particularly with regard to a family assistant who somehow fell out of the family protection law. In addition, certain other rights or provisions that constitute the management of institutions and the like should be regulated. So the new law introduces the possibility of the right of a family assistant. We have repeatedly stressed that such a solution is not in fact the right of a disabled person to an assistant, but rather the choice and ability of a family assistant to decide on such a role and at the same time to help a disabled person, but only in his or her relation, if it is related relations. In the future, this issue will have to be resolved on a level and with the concept of an assistant. This provision aims to compensate for weaknesses in the resolution of the Parental Protection Act, on active employment policy and for mothers with children. It introduces at least partial subsidisation of employment for family members, which would mean that some who are in social distress have no job opportunities, a good solution. The good side is that it allows the most difficult disabled to receive additional help. This past year, we have had considerable difficulties in co-financing such an assistant. It is a weakness, however, that it speaks only of persons with severe mental impairment and severely disturbed persons. The seriously affected categories such as blind, deaf, mentally ill, who also need assistance, have been abandoned. Perhaps by another definition they could better capture these people, but since it is also related to other legislation, they say in the government that such a definition should remain. Of course, we do not agree with this in the New Slovenia Group. It is problematic to define this right that services be paid from the budget of the municipality, which will not be able to bear this financial burden. Furthermore, the issue with residential communities remains as these services are cheaper, more accessible and provide a greater possibility of social contacts from the independent life of adults. In fact, a family assistant can only be one choice. The weakness is that social integration does not guarantee the dimensions that many people probably want. People who decide to do this kind of work are actually entering a risky business. In fact, it is not a real work relationship, so other problems will arise. If they get sick or get older, they are unable to work, they do not have enough years to retire, taking into account the small possibilities for another job. So, this is not about personal assistance, which is supposed to be regulated by the basic law on the rights of persons with disabilities, this is the right of a family member. The conditions for managing, managing establishments are exaggerated. Article 15 contains an amendment from the government, but it does not matter because Article 16 has not been touched, so that we can no longer correct it. However, the condition remains 20 years of working time. The operating conditions scale, the management of the institution, has not been taken into account, as we suggested, which would make sense and logical. If someone runs a large institution, different skills are required, different education, not entirely different, but also different requirements regarding work practices or education. So this is just supposed to depend on the size of the facility. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been taken into account. We've actually cemented too much, cemented the conditions. Even if we set lower conditions for education and work experience, we could still employ people with higher education. But the choice would still increase. So much for the New Slovenia delegation to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Peter Levič will present the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u201	The bill brings some useful innovations that have been needed for a long time. This law lays down the legal basis for the status of a family assistant under the Parental Protection Act and the family benefits of a disabled child. The right to a family assistant who will be entitled to compensation for the loss of income and insurance will now be granted under this law to persons over 18 years of age. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support the provision on the possibility of a third party as a personal assistant. We are aware that parents and relatives are primarily those who care for the disabled, but there are many disabled people who do not have relatives to care for them. The right to personal assistance is the right of a disabled person and as such should be enshrined in a special law. Unfortunately, the Government of the Equalization Act has been preparing disabled people for years and is likely to take some time to adopt them. Thus, if we are to enable persons with disabilities to exercise their rights, we must correct in a number of laws the individual articles that will need to be rectified by the adoption of the umbrella law. Thus, this law also allows third parties who are not related to a disabled person to become a personal helper. This provision should only apply until the adoption of a law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities. This work is not serious and is not proud of the rule of law, but we believe that the needs of persons with disabilities are so important that this bill needs to be supported. We also support a number of other developments brought by the law. In particular, subsidies for an undertaking in the event of employment of a severely employed person. These subsidies have already proved to be a good motivation for businesses in employment in the past. In Slovenia, the employment situation is such that already a fully healthy person with a high education and all the necessary qualifications is difficult to employ, let alone someone who does not have those qualifications. Therefore, the State's incentives through subsidies are often welcome and constitute a new opportunity for these people. More than necessary and necessary, it was necessary to regulate the provisions on concessions by law, since these have so far been awarded under the regulation, which is certainly not the appropriate legal basis for such an important activity. It is also important to introduce the possibility of inspection. A number of recent events have shown the need for inspection and the need for rapid intervention. This is particularly necessary because the award of concessions under this law mainly concerns the most socially vulnerable categories of the population, the disabled, the population of the disabled. As I have already mentioned, the Members of the Youth Party will support the marriage. Although we believe that certain decisions are not part of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you. France Tsukati, the Slovenian Democratic Party, will give a position on the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have a law that, above all, gives rise to the hope of solving some of the problems they experience. I'm sure that's a step forward. Rather, a family helper is also provided to a full - time person at a time when he really needs it. However, the shortcomings of this approach need to be highlighted here. In fact, this aid is offered to disabled persons. What disabled people? To adults, to adults, to those who are full of age, to do so is the law, which was provided by one of the parents before the exercise of the right to choose a family helper. So it's about some continuation of this protection, the protection of a teenager who's become old age and it's going on. Further, it is a matter of care and assistance to those persons, as stated in the law, who have severe mental impairment or difficulty in movement. Of course, from this we see that the intention and commitment of this proposal to those persons with disabilities who have actually been disabled since birth have been affected by development since birth. It somehow ignores those who are only gradually becoming needy. The very concept of a hard-to-moving person is unclear Does this also include the blind, deaf, especially the blind? I don't think so. This definition is very narrow. In some ways, however, elderly people who are not patients are excluded, but have become destitute because of age, not because of disease, and are not disabled. What about those? We see a flawed approach to this issue. Look, there's a lot of health talk about the need for health care. In particular, old people, even the need to open and establish special insurance for long-term care. The need for a common social and health approach to this problem is growing. Social services, even in this marriage, should not defend the sick, not the disabled, the elderly, who must also provide for them. And we will probably need, or certainly we will need, a comprehensive approach to these people without regard, either by definition, the disabled or by definition the patients, or by definition, have become such since birth or have become such. After injury, illness or a short period of time due to age. There is a lack of an integrated approach and, of course, we see this as a great failure to resolve the problem and we expect that someone, because unfortunately we have this problem separated from two ministries, will nevertheless find the time and will to sit down and find such an approach, which of course will mean a completely new systemic approach in quality to solving these problems. In the field, people, both those who need help and social workers, health care, patronage and the like, see that there is no such coordination in fact. Each approach with its own mechanism, each one has its own key to solving these problems, and in any event, without cooperation and without a single approach, only those who need help will suffer. And one more thing I would say: certainly, a common approach would also mean an appreciation for the resolution of these problems and a higher quality. If they were able to include civil society willing to help, civil society - from the Red Cross, the Caritas, parish groups and so on - then we could say that we have approached the European standard of social security. I hope we experience this time too. We will, of course, support the law, despite these shortcomings, precisely because of our hope that our society will be open to news and for a higher quality of such care.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you. Colleague Stanislav Brenčič, position of the Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of our parliamentary group has not changed or repeated since the submission of the position on the second reading proposed by the drafter as a third reading. The fact is, we support solutions such as those brought by law. We are almost certain that sooner or later it will have to be decided that it will be possible - if this concern, which we now call a family helper, is offered to another, not just a parent or a close relative. This will certainly be more favourable for the country if we take this into account in the costs of institutional care than the other way around. We will support and, of course, support the two amendments proposed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you. Member of the LDS Club will be represented by a colleague, Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u207	Even in the LDS, we do not have significantly different views in the third reading of this law. We can only reiterate that the intent of the law is reasonable, that we agree with it and that it is right for a disabled person to have a choice or to take institutional care or to choose a loved one for care, that is, a family assistant even after 18. It was necessary, as was already said at the second reading, that this matter was settled. It was essential that even after the age of 18, a person should receive protective assistance either in such a way as to be provided by his parents or by another close person chosen by an individual. And, as it was said, it was also reasonable that the remaining matter should be handled, not only at the level of family protection, but also at the level of the overall concessional arrangements of the public social protection service. It was also appropriate or necessary to grant inspections, to arrange subsidies for employment and also to further define the integration of social security institutions into the community and so on. At the third reading, we are also facing an amendment signed by Mr Kebric, in addition to the government amendments that only make sense to the text. It is an amendment that gives the possibility to enforce the law sooner than the government proposes or as we agreed on the committee. The intention to shorten this six-month period to three months will be decided in the LDS once we have a meaningful or reasoned response to this issue from the government or when the possible advantages of such an arrangement are presented after the so-called immediate entry into force of this law, otherwise we will have concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group will be presented by Sonja Areh Lavrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Social Protection Act brings new developments in the promotion of employment of recipients of social assistance, concessions and inspection. The novelty, according to the proposaler, eliminates the inconsistencies and shortcomings of existing legislation and the non-compliance with certain laws. The amendments also follow the objectives of the national social protection programme. The main solutions, however, are to be consistent with the Parental Protection Act and family benefits. It also entails the introduction of a new right to choose a family assistant who, in our view, has complemented the above-mentioned novelties of the law. This will enable the proper stay of all those who, after the age of 18, cannot regulate their own lives. In the National Party, we assess that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law are satisfactory. Also, I repeat, we wish that any sub-laws resulting from the provisions of the legal content would be as good as possible and that they would be shown as easily as possible. We will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. By the order of the applicants, mag. Little man, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u211	Are we discussing individual amendments?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u212	No, even the whole marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted to add to that the problem of this personal assistant. Apparently, this family assistant is enough for the government. The family assistant shall be appointed from the point of view of the rights of the active employment and unemployment insurance law. If we come from the right starting point, i.e. equality of assistance according to the level of impact, then the only right response is definitely an assistant. And when we make this decision, which is in the best interests of some, we will have to ask ourselves what is wrong with others who do not have the right assistance. Are we going to adopt another law, where we will exercise assistance as a way of justice that goes to the individual. This is for, in my opinion and in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the right answer. The question is, what do we do with housing communities, or do we continue to do in such a concept? And also the question of running institutions under Article 16, which unfortunately can no longer be changed because 20 years of work experience is required. You have softened somewhat with the Government's amendment proposal that there is no need to require the Director or Director's office to perform five years of work experience in the field of social protection. Activities related to social protection activities are included in such a way that they are not directly linked, otherwise it is difficult to ensure this. But as mentioned above, Article 16 remains, with 20 years of work experience, and a community of institutions that did not support such a rigid solution has also been declared against it. Unfortunately, of course, we can't change that. It is not appropriate to require 20 years of work experience to run some kind of institution. It could be a facility with only 10 employees. This means limiting employment opportunities. For it is not said that he who has the most working experience is even the most capable, the most capable, and the most suitable. It was Kočevje who proved to be in charge of the institution, not the one who would deal with the affected or the elderly at home, that long-standing experience does not mean the right answer and the right person to the right place. So, experience, life shows us that such an approach is not appropriate. This also extends the possibility of running for other people who have a tendency to have skills that have will, who have a sense of belonging to a work that feels like a mission, and why not include younger people. Why don't you just go high or I don't know with postgraduate? Why don't the others? But those of us who have experienced university education have not been told that we are the best for running the institution, not yet. Someone could have better skills. And I don't want to deny that knowledge is needed to run human leadership institutions, direct management, direct leadership, but that comes with additional education. However, you have softened it a little bit, so that we will support that amendment to Article 15 because it is going in the direction, but it is not yet what it should be. Definitely. Well, better luck next time, I'd say.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. Mrs. Ana Maria Tisovic wants a word? No, no, no. This would be a full debate on the bill. We are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments. Article 15 and the Government's amendment to Article 15 shall be put to the debate. Anybody want a word? Madam Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u215	Otherwise, Commissioner Drobnic has explained this amendment a little bit. Maybe just a few more words about it. In line with the second reading discussion, we have once again examined whether we may have closed down too many options for directors and have found that it is reasonable to open these options slightly. In particular, in this direction, in addition to experience in social protection, five-year work experience in a related area can also be taken into account. This seems a very sensible suggestion to us. With regard to Article 16, of which Mr Drobnic spoke, I would like to say that it is true that it is not open. But even if it were, we wouldn't be proposing a change there, because it's an exception to those directors who don't have a high education for such we think there must be some longer work experience in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u216	Thank you. I conclude the debate under Article 15 and the Government's amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 45. Anybody want a word? Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u217	The Committee has already held a debate on how much time it takes to enforce the legal provisions. We believe that this could be resolved within three months. Six months is too long. So I support this amendment. Now, from the point of view of the government's technical services, tell us what the obstacles are so that we can't make it happen within three months. Of course, you make up your mind, but it would be good to give an explanation. Where are those obstacles that you can't do?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u218	Thank you. My colleague Majda Shirca has asked about this before, and may the Secretary of State be?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Of course, in addition to this provision, the law contains several other important provisions. A number of matters will need to be dealt with in important and difficult cases also with by law. This is a series of transfers of different powers to certain communities. It is also necessary by-laws to ensure that the new rights decision-making systems themselves are clearly defined. It is also intended to provide for a certain change in the transfer of funding for services. Thus, the right to choose a family assistant is to be financed by the congregations. In addition to this provision, the law also contains an important provision, which is not directly linked to this funding, but it is important that the financing of social work centres should be fully taken over by the State. So they would no longer be financed, including in the work of personal assistance services, the congregation. All these things, because I say that there are many important changes, according to the transitional provisions, the applicant has foreseen that they will be implemented six months after the entry into force of this law.If it is now only in this article that a decision has been taken to exercise this right within three months of the entry into force of the law, then I think it is my duty to point out to the municipalities that we did not wish to impose an additional financial burden on the municipalities by this law. Such a solution would be, therefore, if only this right were to be exercised earlier, when the transfer of funding for social work centres to the municipalities would take place six months after the application of this law, that would mean that the municipalities would be burdened twice over a period of three months. We would already finance this new right, but at the same time the country would not have fully taken over the financing of social work centres. Given that I think that we all remember the debate last week on the issue budget in the municipalities and the issues related to the financing of various rights. I think that it would now be inappropriate to simply amend this provision in relation to municipalities because it is likely that new financial obligations for one quarter of a year would not be able to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you very much. My colleague Maja Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u221	In fact, we've been waiting for this explanation, given how your amendment was proposed, but it also has some logic, because it's consistent with one other law and this short time would have its meaning. In fact, the answer suggests that it is not necessary for this six-month transition to be so smooth because it is very, very demanding. I think that in this law we may have discussed little about that transaction or that change that is not so small, despite the fact that it has no major financial implications, but it is important. This is a transfer of certain funding from the municipalities to the country and vice versa, from the country to the municipalities. The bill contains very clear explanations of how many new burdens or new needs, at least at the level of new family caregivers, will need additional or modified resources. However, I think that this is a very important way of making new, different or modified funding, which, regardless of the fact that greater burdens, or even vice versa, may be even smaller, does not constitute a major turnaround. For the six-month period for which we will decide to support it in our parliamentary group, it is said not to reduce it to three months, but only to point out that, despite all the assumptions about no major financial changes, the municipalities have not yet prepared these burdens and have calculated them into their budgets, which is also true for the six-month transitional period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u222	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 45a, to which the government has tabled an amendment. I am opening a debate on Article 45a and the amendment. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u223	This amendment, of course, makes sense, but in view of how this right is laid down, a number of other amendments would be needed. See, between these categories they will not be able to apply categories of disabled persons, even though they have been paid to the pension fund and also in this respect the law is problematic. If we are to build a consistent social policy in our country, the highest level of rights should also be provided to those who have paid for the pension system from this title. In second place there are categories that have not paid, but have fallen out of all networks and do not have their own means of survival. So there's no such person in this system. Reconciliation is necessary because one part of the rights under 18 are guaranteed under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, and then this right is dried up by the age of 18. And now how to move on to this right granted by another law. There will be many such disagreements in life, and this will not shed good light on the work that has been done. There will be a great deal of resentment, anger, ambiguity, and in the end there will be a taste that the law does not guarantee the fundamental principle of this righteousness. Notwithstanding the fact that any person is granted an equal level of rights in the light of the impact. They'll feel pushed away in a different way. For these reasons, we will probably have to change the law soon and make a different decision. Of course, what has now been adopted is an emergency solution, and this emergency solution also needs article 45a, or amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I guess not. I conclude the debate on Article 45a and the amendments. The vote on the amendments and the bill will take place today in the framework of the 19th and 30th minutes' vote, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking this agenda. So at 7:00 and 30 minutes, we're going to go to the polls, and we're going to have a nice round of greetings by then. Secretary of State and Undersecretary of State, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u225	The vote of the assembly on the proposals for today's decisions. I'll ask you first if you look at your voting devices. Is there nothing wrong with the voting devices? Then we can move on to point nine. This is a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on marriage and family relations. I'll ask for peace in the hall! We have several articles with which the amendments have been tabled. We'll start with Article 3. Again, I'm asking, is everything okay with the voting devices? I understand that yes. In Article 3, we have the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 52 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. We have an amendment of the same parliamentary groups to Article 16. We're voting. 59 present, 53 for, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one's against it.]] But I think I'm having trouble with the voting device now, so I'm gonna ask the technical services if they come here. We're at Article 18. We have an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. 53 present, 19 in, 39 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] Not accepted. We are at the second amendment of the LDS Member Club, the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 18. We're voting. 65 present, 51 for, 1 versus. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] Roger that. And the amendment of the LDS of the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 18 under Order No 3. We're voting. 61 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] Roger that. By article 19, we have two amendments, both of which are submitted to a group of four parliamentary clubs. We will first decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members under order number 1. We're voting. Article 19, amendment under order number 1. 57 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 56 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. We have an amendment of the same four parliamentary groups to Article 33, which is the last of the amendments. We're voting. 60 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one's against it.]] The amendment was accepted. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to more than one tenth of the articles. In such a way that the third reading of the bill will be carried out by the assembly at the next meeting. On the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we adopt the following decision. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We decide on the proposal for a decision. 63 present, 53 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 53.]] [[4 versus.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the next on the 10th item of the agenda. It is a matter of considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled in the third reading of the amendment to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to make an application, so we will move on to a decision. I am not informed that the proposal would be inconsistent so that we can vote on the law.We vote. 67 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes this point. At agenda item 11, we are dealing with a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Inspection Act. We decide on it by a reduced procedure. We are at second reading and are deciding on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to Article 2. We're voting. 66 present, 15 for, 45 versus. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our vote on the amendment and concluded our second reading. We're in third reading. There were no amendments accepted, so they cannot be tabled at third reading. Can we move on to a decision? I have no notice of non-compliance, so we can vote on the law. We're voting on the law. 64 present, 56 for and one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We are moving on to the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on pharmacy activities. This law is also introduced after a reduced procedure. We're at third reading. Since no amendments have been tabled, they cannot be tabled. That's why we can move on to a decision. Notifying that the proposal would be inconsistent, I don't. We decide on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pharmaceutical Activity in its entirety. 64 present, 59 for and none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Act. This law is also introduced after a reduced procedure. We're at second reading, and we have two amendments. Both amendments to Articles 4 and 5 shall be tabled by four groups of Members, LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. 65 present, 50 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. We also decide on the amendment to Article 5. We're voting. 58 present, 47 to and 7 to. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done with the second treatment. We're moving to third reading. I have no notice of non-compliance with the bill. Excuse me, just a minute! Of course, the amendments have been adopted so that qualified applicants have the right to submit amendments to Articles 4 and 5. I don't see any interest in that. I propose that the third hearing be held in the framework of a reduced procedure on Friday after the end of the last item of the agenda. No one's going to table any amendments? Can we make a decision? Good. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u226	But I don't think it's necessary to decide now whether or not to make amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u227	Well, of course, if you think that possibility exists, then, as I said earlier, on Friday. Oh. K., I'll take that into account, so I asked. No problem. That's why I asked. Comrade Tsukati, there is no problem, the National Assembly will decide on Friday. Qualified applicants shall be able to submit amendments by the beginning. The 14th item of the agenda, we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Services, and we are also considering this in a reduced procedure. We are in the decision-making process on the amendments tabled. We have amendments to Article 1, Article 2 and Article 4. If the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is not adopted, the two remain irrelevant. If the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is not adopted, we will not decide on the other two. Is that clear? Okay. Then we can decide first on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 1. I hope I've made myself clear. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 16 in, 44 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Since it was not accepted, the other two became irrelevant. We have thus concluded our vote on the amendment and concluded our second reading of the bill. There were no amendments accepted, so we can move on to a decision on the law. I don't have any notice of possible non-conformity. Can we make a decision? We are voting on the law as a whole. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. 68 present, 60 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes this point. Moving on, we are at point 15, this is in the third reading of the proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves. We have two amendments to paragraphs 15 and 69. Both have been invested by the government. We will first decide on the Government's amendment to Article 15. We decide on the Government's amendment to Article 15. 65 present, 59 for and 2 for. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] Roger that. We have an amendment from the government to Article 69. We're voting. 64 present, 55 for, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] This is how we have done the vote on the amendments. Does the government want a word? Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. The amendment to Article 15 caused two editorial inconsistencies - one in Article 16 and one in Article 63. The point is that there is now one organisation in Article 15 and that Article 16 speaks of several organisations and that this plural is the only one that needs to be changed, and in Article 63 the appropriate reference should be corrected. I'm putting in these two harmonisation amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-17-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u229	So the government will table the harmonisation amendments and decide on them on Friday after the end of the agenda. The amendments are here, they're on the bench. They're gonna split them up right now. Then, I guess, we could make a decision. If you are so kind as to wait a second, the lady will divide the harmonisation amendment to Articles 16 and 63. We'll have the amendments by 16th and 63rd. But we are voting once, because if one were not adopted, the other is irrelevant. Then the law was not adopted. That's what we're gonna do now. We will vote first on the harmonisation amendment to Articles 16 and 63, then in the full law. Is there any objection to moving on to a decision? I'll wait. Can we make a decision? Oh. K. So you have the harmonisation amendments proposed by the government. We will vote once on the harmonisation amendment to Articles 16 and 63. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We are voting on the harmonisation amendment and then on the law as a whole. 66 present, 60 for, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are now making a full decision on the law. We're voting. 62 present, 60 for, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. A few more decisions await the conclusion of today. Point 16, third deals with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection. We have the amendments tabled, namely Article 15, Article 45 and Article 45a. First, the amendment to Article 15 is tabled by the Government. I am putting the amendment of the Government to Article 15 to the vote. We're in the middle of a vote. 61 present, 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment from the DeSUS Group to Article 45. We're voting. 63 present, 19 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Government amendment to Article 45a. We're voting. 60 present, 47 for and one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I do not have any notice of possible non-compliance, so we can move on to a full vote on the bill. That's the last vote tonight. We're voting. 64 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item and interrupts the 32nd meeting, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice night!
