ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u1	Your Honor! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I salute you all very much! I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Richard Beumann, Aloise Peterle, Franci Rokavec and Tsveta Zalokar Orazem. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Society for Automobiles in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members, with first-signed Anton Anderlic, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. I welcome the representative of the Ministry of Transport, Dr. Tomaž Vidica, State Secretary, and Prime Minister Dars, mag. Janez Christmas. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please have five minutes to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! According to the current Dars Act, which was adopted almost ten years ago by the National Assembly, Dars is a public company in the form of a public company that organises and directs the construction of motorways, conducts financial engineering and manages and maintains Slovenian motorways. This law, together with the then gasoline tolar law, allowed Slovenia to start an intensive construction of the Slovenian highway network nearly ten years ago and thereby stimulate the economic development of the young country. Following the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Dars Act, Dars is to be transformed from a public company to a normal company, which will continue to be owned by the State, and the relationship between the State and Darsa will be governed by two contracts, as proposed by this Act. This would transform the mandate relationship so far into a contractual relationship, as is usually the case in the European Union countries, which is also one of the purposes of this proposed law. The proposed law also aims to facilitate the participation of private capital and other concessionaires in the construction of motorways, as Dars is the controller of the entire motorway network under the applicable law. The purpose of the law is also to rationalise business as much as possible or to reduce management and maintenance costs and to enable Darsa to become a more market-oriented economic society. As far as the area of construction is concerned, Dars will continue, on behalf of and on behalf of the state, i.e. in the so-called agent way, to organise and direct the construction of motorways in accordance with national planning documents and as so far will continue to carry out financial engineering. Dars will also continue to manage and maintain motorways, but not more than an agent of the state, but in his own name and on his own account, as an activity of an economic society. Following the adoption of this proposal, the State should therefore conclude two contracts with Dars: the so-called agency contract for the performance of the tasks relating to the organisation of the construction and renewal of motorways and the concession contract for the management and maintenance of motorways. The only founder and shareholder of the company will continue to be the Republic of Slovenia. This will attach a public highway maintenance company to Darsu by 31 December this year, thus eliminating the duality of organising one public undertaking to maintain motorways and collect tolls, that is Dars, and the other operationally, that is the regular maintenance and collection of tolls, operationally carried out, this is the Highway Maintenance Company. At the same time, under the proposed real estate law, which is currently in the management of both public enterprises, the state will increase the capital capital of the new Dars with real assets by raising the capital of the new Dars to about 11 billion Slovenian tolars. The proposed law strengthens the provision that the motorway body is public good, which makes it out of legal traffic. Dars will only be able to market the transit area that the state is transferring to the new Dars. The proposal for this law is in line with the proposal for a new national programme. The calculations carried out in the preparation of these two documents showed that during the whole period of the concession contract, the tolls would be sufficient to pay all the liabilities from the leased loans to complete the motorway programme. The liabilities of the credits hired for the construction of motorways will in no case be paid by the taxpayers, but by the users of the toll highway, and this was one of the main starting points in the preparation of this law. The proposed law will therefore regulate the organisation and management of the construction, management and maintenance of motorways as usual in the countries of the European Union. Allow me to conclude by stressing that the proposed law does not refer to any privatisation of Dars, on the contrary. The possible privatisation of Dars will only be decided on the basis of a preliminary decision of the National Assembly, up to a maximum of 49% of his value. Any privatisation of Dars during the intensive construction period would not be economically justified, it would be economically flawed and intensive construction would be carried out in line with the proposal for a new national road at least until 2008 at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you, Secretary of State Tomaž Vidic. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. By the order of the applicants, the New Slovenia Group and Alojz Sok shall have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u4	Dear Vice President, government representatives! Dear fellow Members and Members! In New Slovenia, we agree with the government's conclusion that it can no longer go as before. Budget and debt, loans in the long term can no longer provide sufficient resources to complete the national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways. The government has now recalled the need to attract private funds and notes that this cannot be done through concession building, as other Member States of the European Union do. According to the data provided by the government itself, around 33% of the road programme in the European Union countries is built through concessions. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that there was no effort in this direction, even though this provision is enshrined in the coalition contract, there was no attempt in this direction to try for any section of the motorway in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain the concessionaire, although this would be possible even at the present moment. We are convinced that at least the port of the highway is one that could be built with a concession. We could probably build the Maribor-Gruškovje road as well as some regional road in the Republic of Slovenia. The government is now legally changing Dars for the reason that the new company should continue to provide funding through bonds and the construction of the Slovenian road cross. This, of course, raises the question of why the government has not so far reached out to such a possibility and whether it is really necessary to change the status of the current organisation. The law that we have before us undoubtedly provides for the recapitalisation of Darsa, with private investors' money, which in fact means the sale of part of state property to interested private buyers. The government representative said that this would be within 49% of the total assets. A country that with tax money builds a dizzyingly expensive highway program is thus withdrawing from Darsa for which it will receive a purchase and a concession that is not specified in this law but is supposed to be a matter of mutual agreement. However, the price and concession are small compared to the value invested in the motorway programme. The purchase of the country will be incompatible with the contribution made by all Slovenian taxpayers. The Novi Slovenije Group is not the type of privatisation that the country has carried out in the case of Slovenian railways. It is not permissible to privatise the part of the highway that brings profits, but the part that is very expensive would remain owned by the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. by citizens and citizens. Privatisation is intended to provide a prerequisite for the inclusion of extra-budgetary funds in the financing of construction, maintenance and road management, and to enable the development and marketing of other activities from which the profit would be allocated to the construction and, in particular, the servicing of loans. The concessionaire will receive a great deal of value in management, as highways are undoubtedly and will not pay the corresponding economic compensation, but in return for the concession fee, the amount is not defined, it is marketed and it creates its profits, which should in fact be the property of the State and the taxpayers who invested in this system. Motorways are not some natural goods for which concessions are granted, as they need to be built first. The second question to be asked is whether privatisation of Dars will really increase its effectiveness. Dars is and will remain a monopoly, and the monopoly is more expensive and less quality, as he is certainly without real competition. The country is also a monopoly, but a public one. This means that control over its activity is public and the interest in winding up the prices of services is lower than that of the private owner. The proof of that is toll. Where the private sector has left the management of motorways, the tolls have not generally been abolished. However, State ownership or management of motorways from the experience of countries around the world has led to the abolition of tolls, which are in fact an economic burden, by dissuading the use of motorways and increasing operating costs. As far as tolls are concerned, it should also be noted that, at the moment, regional roads are not built in Slovenia and thus give users no opportunity to choose between road with toll or road, where toll is not payable. So this is a great manoeuvring of building our roads so far. It is known that the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia also incorporates a number of telephone lines, cables that go to the expense of the taxpayer’s money. According to data from the end of July, Dars is expected to have approximately 230 km of optical cables taken along Slovenian highways. Although it uses this network for its own purposes, it will also market them in the future, as Dars has placed higher-capacity optical cables in construction than it needs for its own purposes. Privatisation will then be used by the state to market this investment by a private company that has not invested anything but will acquire water and generate huge profits. In Novi Slovenija we oppose such, I could say, a backlog of privatisation, where citizens will have only the costs and individual private companies with high profits. As we read this law, it seems that this is also the main point of this law, namely to create accompanying subsidiaries and then to carry out accompanying activities; one of these I have mentioned and today represents a trend of high technology and development, not only in the Republic of Slovenia, but throughout the world. The government wanted this law adopted by emergency procedure. Today we are talking about the law in the regular procedure, so we have gained some time. However, Members should receive answers to some of the questions raised when adopting this law. One such question is: Is there any need for a new company, or would it be better if the highway maintenance company simply joined Dars? The question is why the construction of highways in the Republic of Slovenia is so expensive. Every year, we build from 80 billion construction funds about 20 to 25 kilometers [20 to 25 km] of highways. It is clear that such means of the Slovenian road programme will not be completed in the next 10 years. However, when this programme is completed, new needs will, of course, arise. Even today, it is widely seen that in the Republic of Slovenia we should build tri-passes, not double-passengers, as we build them. We should have before us a thorough audit report that would answer why a kilometer of highway at such a price as quality. In fact, many comments have already been made in this National Assembly. Many are convinced that the quality of the construction of Slovenian motorways is poor and that the consequences of this poor construction quickly show up when the road is dedicated to its purpose. What should be answered about the contracts already concluded between Darsa and the various banks, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which are the clauses in these treaties? Will the status change of Darsa also have any effect on the contracts concluded? The question should be answered as to how a new supervisory board of the new Dars will be formed. From the law before us, it seems that only representatives of the government will sit in this supervisory council, and not any more representatives of the National Assembly, and then, of course, the matter will be even easier in seclusion. How will the state control the market principles referred to in this law? Already there are many complications in the award of public contracts. I'm not going to mention individuals, you know there have been a lot of complications in public about this. What's the new toll system gonna do? Who's gonna set the tolls? At what height and on what they will depend, for this is one of the main sources on which this new company is to be based. In short, in New Slovenia, as I said at the outset, we are convinced that Dars needs to be reformed, but in a way that changes several articles of the law in the face of many uncertainties cannot be done. And such a way of changing the law, and consequently changing Darsa, has already essentially led to the possibility of corruption. We are in favour of economy, but we want this economy to be financially transparent, so that Members get sufficient reasoned financial explanations or reasoned reasons for this law, what we want to achieve with this law at all. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I propose that a public presentation of opinions be made on this law, because it is necessary to be aware that this is an extremely important law which will have major consequences for the further construction and management of large state assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you. Franz Lenko, for the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable members, representatives of the government, fellow Members and fellow Members! The bill before us deals mainly with the transformation of the company for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia into a regular company. We can say that this is a completely new law, since virtually all the substantive articles are now amended or supplemented by the current law. The new law will be on the possible participation of private capital in the construction of motorways and allow Dars to become a market-oriented economic company. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, it seems important to us that the Republic of Slovenia remains the sole founder and owner, as well as that the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in possible recapitalisations cannot fall below 51%, and that we will also be Members on the proposal of the law. In the DeSUS Group, we consider it crucial that the country has an impact on the company's business policy and that the motorway is considered a public good, which reinforces the proposal for a law. We note, however, that by 1 December 2003, as provided for in the law, the statute of the association, which should also provide for the nullity of the provisions in the case of the restrictive voting right of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot be harmonised until that date, since it is likely that the national assembly will not have completed the examination of the law by that date. A statusal transformation of the company for the motorways of the Republic of Slovenia into a share company which will carry out its tasks on the basis of the contractual conditions with the State will allow other concessionaires, among others. This may mean concession building with poor experience in some European countries, so such projects need to be thoroughly examined before they are awarded for construction, management or maintenance. Dars should also be considered at a time when the highway cross will be completed. It is therefore necessary to consider his role when the organisation and construction of motorways and fast roads are no longer necessary. The law provides for a conclusion of at least 30 years and a maximum of 45 years. However, in the DeSUS Group, we are wondering to what extent the arrangements will, as envisaged, be appropriate. Will the estimated resources and revenue for the management and maintenance of motorways and fast roads be sufficient? Building a highway network is an important priority for the country. The diversification of transport infrastructure, including motorways, is one of the fundamental conditions for coherent regional development, as well as for the competitiveness of our country. The solutions to be adopted by approving this law must be well thought out, and we hope that today's general debate will also help. We must not forget that the European Union will reduce funds for the construction of certain European motorway links, some of which should also go through Slovenia. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have waited too long for the final construction of motorways. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we therefore hope and want the amended and amended law to mean direct positive effects, including for citizens as direct users of these. An additional debt would be heavily burdened by the state budget, which we already feel by taxpayers today, and even more so, the burden, which is not negligible, would be passed on to later generations. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we therefore consider that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you. Janko Weber, for the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, chairman. A warm welcome to the representatives of the government and to fellow Members and fellow Members! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company for Motorways Act in the Republic of Slovenia is based primarily on the need to build a highway network in Slovenia and is based on several segments. In our view, these segments can be divided into costs for the implementation of the programme, the scope of the programme, into own resources for the implementation of the programme, debt and, of course, the cost-effectiveness of the implementation of the programme. If we look at the construction costs, we can find that the start of the motorway network was assessed relatively low, which is certainly due to the fact that when we took an intensive approach to the thinking and implementation of the highway network in Slovenia, we had relatively little technical documentation prepared and, above all, there were a lot of strangers when we put the route into space, which certainly led to the increase in the cost of project solutions and placements in space with the dynamics of the highway network. At the same time, the scope of construction grew. In fact, from the original scale, there was soon a very concrete desire to expand the highway network and the first rebalancing of the highway network can be seen that the programme was longer by 11% and that it was also more expensive by 112% than originally planned. It may have been questionable, above all, that, in the recent rebalancing of the highway network, new sections have come to the priority of those originally planned, which is likely to have contributed to this or unlikelyly, to the fact that costs have been increased on some sections or in the global construction of the highway network. So, from the very beginning, which was somehow in Slovenia in the construction of a highway network based on public funds, there is a rapidly growing need for these public funds to try to make as concretely as possible that the programme is not based only on budgetary resources, but that we are trying to create specific means to accelerate construction and, of course, was also a rather rational form of financing for the highway network. These two new sources, which have emerged at this time, are certainly a gas tolar, which we have just accepted because we have an additional quality resource, strictly designed to build a highway network. And of course, even this gas toll did not satisfy all the needs that were growing due to the volume of construction and due to the above-mentioned increasingly clear technical solutions. And the gas toll from the original planned had to be increased by about 25% at the first rebalancing. At the same time, the deadline for the collection of the gas toll has also been extended, which means that we have already been aware in the past, both in the government and in the National Assembly, of the need to follow, with our own resources and with this quality source of the highway network, otherwise we would have come up with great questions about when and how we will complete the motorway network. The gas toll is certainly the best source of the toll. However, the history of the toll system in Slovenia is extremely interesting, from the original closed system, which is certainly the most efficient system, even the most honest, we can probably claim, because you actually pay the actual toll. However, the history of the design and collection of the toll system has shown that we have fluctuated somehow from the most efficient system to the practical abolition of the toll system, which has led us to today have multiple forms of both closed and open system. And in the final phase, we are somehow trying to get closer to some optimal toll collection system that we have been trying to speed up and optimize, not least by adopting spatial laws that allow more efficient installation of toll stations on the already built highway network or on the future envisaged. Because it happens, however, that we all kind of want the highway network to get to our places as soon as possible. At the same time, however, we are faced with the problem of paying as little as possible for the fact that the highway network had been built, and this form was usually shown by trying to avoid paying the toll in one way or another. The road is one of those sources which, with some relatively economic construction of the motorway network and a relatively well-controlled and predictable form of liability for the construction of the motorway network, should be sufficient in particular to repay these leased loans. Today we can see that the toll itself certainly cannot service fully rented loans. For the scale of construction is significantly greater than this instant it is possible to provide funds through tolls. The debt, which is one of the forms of funding, has always been present in the construction of the highway network, both in domestic institutions and in international institutions. And, of course, this credit potential has reached that limit that we have planned in the existing laws, and above all, it has been linked to the fact that it does not really contain the capabilities shown by both the gas toll and the toll. And the analysis also shows that it will be necessary to use both the gas toll and the toll to pay off debts, i.e. two of the highest quality sources. And in order to avoid, however, the highway programme is stalled due to the service of the leased debts, it is of course necessary to transform the company for motorways, because the introduction and consideration of the possibility of financing the motorway programme also through private capital is probably one of the biggest reserves today that will allow us to accelerate the construction of the motorway network and which will certainly also contribute to greater efficiency and, of course, as I have already said, faster implementation of the programme. Therefore, we believe in the parliamentary group that the envisaged transformation of Dars under this law is essential if we are to accelerate the construction of the highway system, as we are moving, by public or public means alone, the deadline for the completion of the motorway system far into the future. We will certainly also face this problem when we consider the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the construction of the motorway network, because there is always a need for additional sections, after additional connecting sections, on additional fast roads and, lastly, after additional reconstruction of state-owned or parallel roads or those used at the time of construction, and then to be properly repaired and reinstated in the appropriate form for other state roads as well. And because one of the important objectives of the UK Group, or even a party to the United List of Social Democrats, is consistent with regional development, we believe that the efficient construction of the highway system can indeed lead to coherent regional development, and at the same time it is one of the most effective regional programmes that take place in the Republic of Slovenia. And as I have already said, we see the possibility of accelerating this development through both highway and regional resources, through additional resources provided by private capital through these forms, through the transformation of Darsa. Of course, the funds to be collected by issuing debt securities are a new form that has emerged and there will certainly be an additional argument here that all those who will or will be willing to invest their resources in this form of savings will also contribute to even greater control and to an even more cost-effective form of construction of the motorway network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you. I give the floor to Saš Pečet for the position of the Slovenian National Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u10	Your Honors are here! I believe that the highway cross and good road connections are the goal of each of us and the wishes of each Slovenian citizen and citizen. So the idea of transforming Dars, just an idea, would be inappropriate to oppose. However, as a representative of the national party, allow the content to be touched through individual elements. In the introduction, the proposaler, i.e. the Secretariat, notes, quote: "Dars has achieved great success in building Slovenian motorways in 10 years of operation." So if he's achieved great success in 10 years, then why change the status form? First question. And from this point of view, I call, at least, on the proposaler or the contractor of the materials, that, in so far as they decide to change the various status forms, they should also state the reasons why. However, they do not change the reasons, but at the same time state how successful an economic operator has been. On the other hand, about a month ago, we passed an aviation law, which is what he was called. The same department proposed the establishment of an institution with dual status, public enterprise and d.d. A month later, the same ministry proposes a different organisational form. We can conclude from this out and my assessment is quite credible that this government doesn't know what it's doing. On the one hand, a month ago, he advocates as the most successful organisational form on the market public undertaking d.d. and next month he says that the public company d.d. the death form that does not allow for progress, allows for debt and exclusively says that an entity must be a capital company. While we assess in the national party what we have already said a month ago, it is correct for the State to decide whether public companies will have public companies under the law on public companies or will have capital companies or companies based on companies. But of course, according to our assessment, the approach that would allow for better development of road links and, of course, consistent regional development should be different. The applicant himself estimates in the introduction that part of such activities, i.e. road activities, will take place in the form or in the field of concessions. On the other hand, it is necessary to ask ourselves if we want the law to have a real basis for life, on the basis of what law can be applied in our country of concession. The first element of the concession, referred to by the applicant in the Dars Act, is the duration, period of concession. But nothing else and according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, if we really wanted to make progress in this area we would have, of course, in 2001, when we pointed out the need for a concession law. In this law we enforce only one element, which will, of course, lead to the fact that the law will not be able to live, that it will be another law in a whole bunch of Slovenian legislation that has neither tail nor head and therefore can never live. The proposer further notes, according to our assessment, in five points what this law will bring. Firstly, a clear distinction between the public and private sectors, which of course is wrong, when we look at the facts cited by the applicant in the law, where he says: "It is reasonable that highway management is treated as a whole and defined as a compulsory economic public service". In the same text, it refers to the compulsory economic service, in the second text or in the text previously referred to in the same document as an exclusive capital form, i.e. the company law. In the Slovenian National Party or on behalf of a national party, I can state with responsibility that in the government, forgive the expression, but you do not have the slightest idea of what you wanted to do with this law, unfortunately, and this ignorance of yours will cause it to be another one of those laws that are written just to be written. On the other hand, the government notes that through this law it will acquire a constant and neutral source of funding. Do you really believe that anyone else in this country is so naive that they will believe that through the status form we can avoid being indebted to the state? No, no, no. Gentlemen, if this were so simple that we would just change the organisational form and there would be no more debt, then today we will turn everything - public companies, shareholders - into such a form that we will not be able to be in debt. Gentlemen, this is legal or legally controversial. Finally, allow me not to speak again, and I will drop off a lot of things, according to our assessment, also what the billmaker said about privatisation. Privatisation is the only purpose of this law, so that Dars can be privatized under this law. After the state has given it its gift and has already credited it, despite the fact that the drafter has announced that it will require the consent of the national assembly. Remember what happened in 1994 with the privatisation of banks, even the decision was taken on privatisation that a law was needed. That wasn't there. Perhaps the basis of the idea of the law itself was good, perhaps, but the law is so badly written that it will not be implemented, none of the consequences proposed by the government will be possible to enforce as positive. In the national party, of course, we will be able to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you. Jože Tanko has the floor for the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you, for your word. Dear colleagues! When I read the first sentence of the document by which the government accompanied the amendment of the Dars law into the legislative procedure, I thought very hard. The government noted that the proposal for a law is proposed for adoption under an urgent procedure, because it is only in this way that the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State can be prevented. I asked myself how it is possible that, after all these years of successful investment and, as a result, successful construction of the highway system, as one of the highest priorities of this period and these governments, the government will suddenly find out overnight that a disaster is approaching that could break the foundations of this country. How is that possible? Whether all preventive mechanisms and protectors have been cancelled, whether the financial and construction profession has failed, or whether it has failed policy, or whether, in the background, only the continuation of the transition transformation process and the ownership of the public property that is left is still there. Whether the time has come when it is necessary for some to console their appetites and cheaply sell them or, under favourable conditions, give them the property that has been financed by a crowd of citizens who have regularly paid a contribution to the purchase of fuel for the construction of highways that we have, and we also call it "the gas tolar". Is it also necessary to open a channel for private interests and to pour state money into a private pocket? Or do we need fresh money to cover the coming financial burden of Darsa or to cover an immeasurable budget hole that is only increasing with each newly created and adopted budget? Perhaps this has begun to unravel evergreen's successful and irreplaceable policy of some parties over the past ten years. There are still a number of questions in this information block, with a vague accompanying text and the concealment of data, it is very difficult to find answers and to create any necessary basis for a decision. It is strange, however, that it is only now that all corridors have been drawn up and around 50% of the network has been built, when we have overloaded public finances, and when we are already threatened with repurchase guarantees due to Dars' inability to pay off the credits from his own resources. It seems to remind us that every time the National Assembly passed a guarantee law, you provided us with information that we were hiring the most valuable resources possible and that we had the cheapest possible construction. But a lot of people say that's not the case. The cheapest resource that we citizens have paid generously and purposefully in fuel prices, which was collected in this country's accounts, has not been fully used for the construction of motorways. About half the money - that's a few hundred million dollars - came out of the highway program. If all the gas tolls were used for construction, Dars' debt would be significantly lower. However, the ruling coalitions have made sure that these, the only free funds have been traded for credits that are now squeezing our necks. Have we ever wondered whether what they do in governments and coalitions is good? Is it good that we spent money instead of highways for example for falcon or hangar, or for the acquisition of luxury rolling stock, or has it also spread out for various unnecessary projects of lobbyist friends because of disregarding the law on public procurement and abuse? It is obvious that as well-intentioned and capable managers of public finances should be able to recognize the problem long ago and solve it when it begins to appear, not just now that it has gone beyond all manageable dimensions. The possibility and sense of private investment in the construction of the highway network has been pointed out by some years ago, since the programme began to be seriously advocated, but they have remained isolated and ignored in their thoughts. On the basis of the mentality of the policy of acquisition and use of public funds, the planners of the policy of acquisition and use of public funds, on the basis of the heritage and experience of the "old South", thought that we would be able to do it alone only if we could convince citizens to pay a large enough amount of self-sustainment and draw up a large enough budget with their resources. Paying a gas tolar is a form of self-contribution if we admit it or not. And as we can see, a large part of this self-contribution, a lot of the means of this public gathering has gone up. I think that without the prejudices of many who have formulated national and road policy, we could ask for health, not only because of the unintended use of funds, but also because of what has been written in the explanatory memorandum by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. She wrote that all studies show that private capital must be attracted as soon as possible. But how many of these studies are there, and since when? It was probably the first to be produced ten years ago, and the amendment proposal has only been drafted now. It is obvious that our government has long been aware of the irrational approach taken in the construction of motorways, and it is also obvious that it has been making a decision and has waited for the extreme moment. After all, foreign experience also shows us that private capital has a great interest in the construction and management of transport networks and that it also performs these tasks quite well. However, the law provided for the possibility of private investment in the construction of motorways only a trick, yesterday the minister showed with an answer to Member Mamić's question. We are convinced that the proposed reorganisation approach is not the most appropriate, as it is obviously being set up and preparing a similar solution as for railways. What is not profitable will only become an even greater public burden, and what it bears, which brings profit, will be awarded by the State to the private and may be willing to charge a few percent of the concession revenue and leave the rest to the concessionaires. Instead of the full amount, the budget will gain only about 5% or 10%, maybe a percentage more. I also believe that it would be reasonable to tell Members clearly before deciding on the status of the new Dars, what the role of the National Assembly will be in the future, since the National Assembly no longer has the power to appoint members of the Supervisory Board. The number of members of the Supervisory Board shall be reduced from 11 to 6, 4 of which shall be proposed to the Ministry of Finance and Transport, and all 6 shall be appointed by the Assembly of the Society or Government. In short, there is no possibility of a member of the Supervisory Board becoming someone proposed by the opposition, which means that the company will operate completely without control. And that the crackdown on public finances will continue. It is also not clear from the explanation whether the new Dars will be obliged to operate under the Public Procurement Act and whether the Court of Auditors will be able to carry out an audit of the business of this company, given that it is converted from a public undertaking to a regular company after this proposal. And that the government of its minimum 51% can consist of various SODs and KADs as with the New Ljubljana Bank and thus avoid audit of the Court of Auditors. It also seems to us that one of the objectives of the reorganisation is to improve the image of the state of public debt, as Dars will no longer have the status of a public undertaking after the reorganisation and will no longer be part of the wider government debt. So one of the objectives of the reorganisation is also to fictitiously improve public finances. The explanation shows an extremely poor picture of the public sector as it is clearly stated in two or three places in the explanatory memorandum that Dars does not carry out his tasks in good and in full, that he does not manage the assets he manages. However, the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum can be achieved and implemented without privatisation, since the objectives of companies do not differ by ownership, irrespective of whether the objectives are always similar in the public and private sectors. There is no financial justification for the law, no financial assessment of the effects of the changes envisaged. In short, the legislative process and the reorganisation of Darsa coalition brings the coalition back to its mind. And at least to us Members, such procedures are completely unrealistic and demeaning. In the opinion of our Group, the only good part of this proposal is to combine all activities linked to the highway programme. Let's go to the roadblocks, the control or the maintenance of the highways. We also know in the opposition that fragmented and divergent interests at the same facility are difficult to successfully monitor and effectively carry out the necessary activities. Therefore, it makes sense to join the highway maintenance company in order to enable business concentration and rationalisation of business. However, this can also be done in a simpler way. The status and reorganisation changes of such a large and important project as Dars are missing are a lot of things for a company that consumes almost 10% of the state budget. There is no analysis, no good explanation, no justification, and that is why our Group of Members or our Group of Members will not support this Act. Unfortunately, we cannot go to this project with our left hand, regardless of the current dominant political option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you. Ivan Bozič, position of the SLS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Secretary, representatives of the government, Darsa, colleagues and colleagues! Good day to you all. It's a little sad today in our Parliament, as if we were talking before November 1st. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Dars Act and considers that the proposal for a document is appropriate for further consideration. This is based on the fact that the primary purpose of Darsa's status conversion from a public company to an economic company and the accession of public companies Darsa and the Company for the maintenance of motorways to a new Dars is to increase the cost-effectiveness of Dars' business in organising and managing the construction, management and maintenance of Slovenian motorways, while at the same time allowing private capital to enter the financing of the construction, management and maintenance of motorways and thus other concessionaries for sections that will not be built, managed and maintained by Dars. In other words, the area of organisation and management of the construction, management and maintenance of motorways will be demonopolized and market principles will be introduced and Dars will later act on the principle of profit and loss, with fundamental principles, thanks to which we intensively build motorways in Slovenia, although slower than we would like to, will also be strengthened. The organisation of the construction of motorways, the ability to borrow outside the budget, is a fundamental activity of Darsa, and this was also the fundamental purpose of the establishment of Darsa 10 years ago. The State has thus avoided the fact that credit obligations would become part of a public debt, which would probably prevent the Republic of Slovenia from meeting the Maastricht criteria. Then, too, Dars will lead, on behalf of the state, as an agent, the construction of those highway sections that will not be built by other concessionaires. The management and maintenance of the motorways already built and the collection of the toll is the second main task of the public company Dars today, with Slovenia being the only European country in which the management and maintenance of the motorway takes place in two public companies. The organisation of the management and maintenance of motorways and the collection of tolls in Dars, as a public undertaking, and the operational implementation of the maintenance of motorways and the collection of tolls under contract with Darsa, is operated by a public highway maintenance company. This duality is governed by the law as it is regulated in other European countries. Given that both public companies, Dars and the Motorway Maintenance Company are 100% owned by the State, their merger is only meaningful, as this allows for a more rational organisation of both companies. That is how we avoid duplication of certain general services. The accession shall also eliminate the negative parties arising from the current contractual relationship when each party is necessarily representing its interests. After the accession, interests will become common, with the addition of a highway maintenance company, an economically stronger company will be created, which will more successfully club foreign competition, which will be particularly important after our integration into the European Union. The successful market performance of the redesigned Darsa is also necessary for its recapitalisation, the main purpose of which is that that part of the state property, which is now a public asset in the management of the public undertakings of the Motorways Company of the Republic of Slovenia and the Motorway Maintenance Company of Slovenia, is to invest in the new Dars as a real asset of the State, and to enable investment in the development of activities through depreciation and additional revenues from these activities will reduce the need to refinance credit liabilities and, again, accelerate the repayment of loans from their own Dars resources. The equipment with which the state would recapitalise the new Dars in the form of a real-state input is mobile equipment for toll stations, mobile equipment for highway maintenance, facilities, in particular necessary for the maintenance and management of motorways, such as motorway maintenance bases. It is necessary to adopt the law as soon as possible, in the event that the status changes of public undertakings of the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia and the Company for the maintenance of motorways are not carried out before our full membership in the European Union, in order to ensure that the status quo is maintained. That would be a step back. Some positive aspects of its operation would also be lost; this is borrowing credit on its own, lack of financial barriers, relatively high autonomy and flexibility on the market. However, this solution, which means maintaining the current status or possible transformation into a legal public undertaking, would not be long-term. It is known that the European Union does not favour the existence of public undertakings because they distort competition in the common market, especially in areas where it is not necessary for services to be provided only by the State, but can be left to competition. In order to further develop and maintain and manage motorways within a public undertaking, it should be demonstrated that this is an area where the interests of the State are so important that it cannot be left to the market. In the European Union, where roads have been built and maintained on the basis of concessional relations for a long time in most countries, such a problem would be impossible to defend. Involvement of private entities in the exercise of these activities could be required by any entity on the market that would potentially be a provider and could not obtain concessions because the Republic of Slovenia would not have tendered. In this case, he could initiate proceedings before the European Commission, which would require the Republic of Slovenia to release competition in this area. The decision on the status changes of Dars should therefore take into account the following: If we want to change the management of motorways as a public economic service by content into a management of huge public goods, Dars has to become a public company. A shareholder may perform a public economic service on the basis of a concessional relationship. A statusal amendment to Darsa can be made by adopting a proposed law amending and supplementing the Dars Act. The reform is essential if before Slovenia enters the European Union, we want to ensure the management of Slovenian motorways in the public interest and in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia by maintaining the decisive influence of the Republic of Slovenia; that Dars, d.d., will be able to pay off all the burdens from the credits received, from the toll and other revenues of Dars and from the state budget; that credits will not be taken into account as the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia and that there will be no repayment of State guarantees in total of around EUR 2.4 billion from the capital; that capitalisation by the state of assets, which is now formally good and capital is dead, on the basis of the increased core capital of the service, it will also be possible to obtain capital from private resources, thereby allowing the Republic of Slovenia to recapitalise; that the capitalisation of the sector will continue to be 100 % and capital dead; that, primarily through the increased basic capital, through the service programme, also through the provision of the construction of private resources for the construction of private resources, and thus allowing the third-based financial resources; that it will be allowed to continue to continue to sustaining the capital. The proposed law shall take into account all those provisions. We are therefore convinced that it is necessary to adopt the proposed law as soon as possible, to join a public highway maintenance company and the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia in the new Dars and to recapitalise it with the largest possible real contribution of the country and to conclude the corresponding contracts with the new Dars before being a member of the European Union. On the basis of the above, it is essential that the whole process, including the conclusion of the Treaties, be carried out before the spring of next year, which is before the entry into the European Union. In view of this, the law should be adopted as soon as possible. I think that would mean a lot to the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you. Bogomir Vnučec has the floor, for the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that the early construction of the highway network is a condition for quality infrastructure links between the country's places. The huge financial resources provided by Slovenia so far in the form of budgetary resources and loans guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia are the burdens of this, but for the country of a major project it has placed primarily on young and future generations, which will also repay these debts, even though those roads will then be in very poor condition. Since the government failed or did not have a genuine interest in financing construction to actually attract private capital, the debts under this heading are high. In addition, the government has allowed uncontrolled investment to be encouraged, which has moved the completion date of the project to more than 10 years in the future. The government has also allowed disproportionately high investment costs and has also allowed contractors to lower the quality of construction below the level of good taste, making many new sections much worse than many German highways, which are already approaching their full age. Even the director of the Anti-Corruption Office points to a corrupt environment in this area, and the consequences can and are probably dozens of kilometres less built motorways. The Republic of Slovenia has invested tens of billions of Slovenian tolars in the highway project and has provided Dars with once more guarantees to rent credits for the construction of the highway cross, and around Dars has created a closed circle of companies that exclusively provide Dars with such profits as to be able to buy a new company with the new law. During private investment in the construction of motorways, the young Slovenia Party only supports such models, which provide a clear opportunity to inspect and review the level of private funds invested in individual sections projects where, as in practice also abroad, these companies are also given the opportunity to manage and collect tolls on the basis of their input. What the government is proposing, with this change of law, can briefly be referred to as an intermediate stage to some new wild privatisation of state property. We can also expect a new blow from local communities from such privatisation, as Dars is no longer taking into account the will of the local community to intervene in their premises. In the event of such privatisation, however, we expect another co-owner of Dars to be looking for profit in particular, and the opinion on interventions in the areas of local communities will be even more ignored. It is true that the Green Light for Privatisation will be decided by the National Assembly and that this will not be the case today, but today we are preparing the ground for this, and in a few months, you will be voting the same majority as today. We oppose such attempts in the Young Slovenia Party, so we will not support this change of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you. Even the position of the LDS Club will be given by Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u18	Your Honor! The National Assembly has relatively much to do with highway construction, with Darsa, with his plans, but yet a lot of words have been said in the past on this subject, has come to light, and the matter has only begun to move now that we are receiving a resolution on, I don't know why else, on the other hand, on the construction of motorways, because it is a national programme, and on the other hand, on the amendment of the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The law is late and incomplete, hurrying up on some basic definitions. Let's say on most definitions where it should be clearly written, let's say how long the contract will last, say, "for the time of the construction of motorways or another period". So the law must lay down the right conditions. Then you have "in particular", "in particular" sources - you need to know where the funds will be provided, because if you write on one side from a petrol tolar provided under a special law, it is known that regardless of that, I think that in last year we have changed it, that the height provided under this law is practically not guaranteed for the construction of motorways. Then you have in the next indent that other appropriations as well. What are these other appropriations? I think it is necessary to write clearly on which money is counted and, of course, also in the implementation of this law. However, it is not that we adopt laws on the one hand, and on the other hand, we write other numbers by means of annual acts such as annual programmes for the development and maintenance of motorways, as well as budgets and the law on the implementation of the budget. To talk about that this article, which allows up to 49% of the investment of other capital, that this is not a matter of privatisation, must be explained what this is about. Where will this resource be provided for recapitalisation or for whatever else, in this amount, or for deposits or disposals of shares, and I don't know how you're going to do it in the first place. In a way, I suppose you do. After all, this type of property, which is now in, 100 percent of the country's property, defined in this way, is 49%, so it's state property, 100% at this point. What are these 49% going to be, and what do you mean? It's too bad to write in a marriage. Because all citizens and those who follow this debate and want to know more or to get involved in the construction of the highway system, they also have capital, they need to know whether there is a possibility for private capital, for state funds, I don't know what you're thinking here, and that will probably have to be clarified. We are not sure that the merger of Dars and the maintenance company is the wisest and most thoughtful form, despite the fact that we know and support that a concession contract must be concluded within six months and so on. But it is already clear that the maintenance company is too large and has a few hundred employees to this extent. That this maintenance is very expensive, and I am sure that the monopoly in this area is not the one that will pressure the cost of maintenance, so that they will go down. Nor will the quality of maintenance be guaranteed in the most and only way. I think it would be necessary, as part of the discussions and analyses that you're supposed to be doing in the ministry, Dars and also in other institutions, how state roads, i.e. the main network, to train, restore, upgrade, how to actually achieve a higher, better effect with, perhaps with a different organisation, with a different way of maintaining, not just through monopoly. When you say that now this law will also make it easier to get land to build some buildings, because it will not be necessary procedures like other facilities, it seems to me that this is some comfort, some promise that has no real basis. However, we can monitor daily how difficult it is and how many obstacles there are to land production, some procedures to obtain building permits, or even more locational ones, and so on. Therefore, of course, this is also linked to effective tolling. I think that there is at least a ten-year-old discussion in this National Assembly on what kind of tolling would be best for Slovenia. That it is true that in the past year, more than a year ago, the National Assembly has decided that both Dars and the Ministry and all those involved must come up with a different proposal to collect the toll - there has been talk of electronic and so on - but of course, except that there is a source, which is not defined, what will be and how much of this source will be, otherwise the law does not talk about it. Even when you talk in the law about, in one part, saying that the concession fee will be the means to build highways, but on the other hand it says that only part will be intended for this purpose, and part will probably go back to the budget - or where will it go? Here, of course, we should very clearly define what it is like to do as well. We will support the marriage, but we expect things to be completed by the second reading next month and that we can make them more clear with the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are having a general debate between Members and Members, of course those who still have the time available. Aloys Sok has the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] Joseph Jerovšek? [[He doesn't want to.]] French onion? [[He doesn't want to.]] Joze Aishovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Obviously, at the end of this year, we will talk a lot about roads, both in the context of the Law on the Amendments to the Dars Act, in the light of the resolution on the amendment of the national highway construction programme, when the budget is adopted, the correction for this year or for the following year and for 2005, together with the development programmes. I think it's gonna be kind of a repeat. For these reasons too, unfortunately, we still do not have a clear strategy for transport policy in Slovenia, and also for reasons that we do not have a national national road programme in line with the Public Road Act. It is precisely this national programme that would in many ways give an answer to what development will be like on state roads, from fast roads to regional and major roads, and probably a number of objections to the proposed national programme would be better reflected in this. Obviously, I am not talking about the law itself, but I would like to point out that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Dars Act essentially also affects an area for which Dars has not been established under the law so far, that is, on the management of fast roads. With the answers to all the questions raised today, I would also like to receive an answer as to whether it is part of the transport policy and the policy of building and maintaining state roads in order to manage and build all the fast roads in Slovenia for a newly designed and redesigned company for state roads, since it is in fact a legal challenge. Besides, we don't have much of these fast roads in Slovenia. If we look at these sections on the former road "Brotherhood and Unity", something in Gorenjska and something in Dolenjska, it is said: Črnivec, Podtabor,Bistrica, Beach, Obrežje, and H2 [[Poet, Maribor, Tesno]] , pa H3 Ljubljana [[Good morning, Tomachevo, Koseze]] , then H4 [[Vipava, Ajdovščina, Selo, Šempeter, Spindle]] . Some of them were built by Dars, some of them were built earlier, some of them disappear, such as, for example, H1', which will disappear from the list of fast roads after the highway Caravanke-Bob is built to the end. In this part, I would really like an answer as to how fast roads will go forward, for the law also allows for some doubt that someone else may be able to manage and build, if so determined. Even in the entire text of the law, except in the first paragraph of Article 1 of the amendment, when it speaks of motorways and fast roads, the text replaces both words with the word highways and then only speaks of motorways. In fact, when I listened to this debate today, and already in which of the other laws we have dealt with on the basis of the signature of at least 15 Members in the first reading in the plenary, it is regrettable that we do not have a business definition in such cases that we also have the opinion of the Law Service. It would be much easier to decide in the first reading of the plenary whether or not the law is a suitable basis for having the opinion of the Law Service, which, in our Rules of Procedure, follows only the second reading on the home labour body. Perhaps this initiative, or this opinion that I am giving today, would suggest that we examine it within the framework of the business committee. I have read the opinion that the Law Service has written to the resolution on the national programme for motorways and I have found something that would come to my mind more than once, and I will only conclude by saying: In point 8, which says that it will be necessary to harmonise the national programme or resolution and this law conceptually. This means that, when funding and resources are being funded and spent, the national programme is not genuine with the proposed legal solutions, and if this is to be adopted, that is the opinion that is written and contained in the draft legislation for the Infrastructure Committee, which will be available next week. In order not to repeat all the open questions raised by other Members, I will also conclude, although the law is suitable for further consideration, unfortunately it could be completely new, not the law on amendments and additions, because it has nothing more to do with the eleven articles of the original law. It could be completely new, which is what will happen at the end, if we accept it properly completed, it will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you. I give my word now, Dr. Andre Bajuk, if he wants to discuss it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Surely this debate is very welcome. It is high time that this National Assembly is considering and seriously debating the future of our public finances and, of course, one of the greatest sources of this burden on our public finances, which is the implementation of the national highway programme, but this proposal that we have before us is one of the most unfounded proposals that I have ever met in this three-year period now in this National Assembly. The government repeats, and by repeating a certain conclusion, it thinks it has already justified it. He's talking to us about a Portuguese model, and then you're reading under a Portuguese model, and I'm inviting all my colleagues to look at it on page 32 of the rapporteur, and it's empty. He doesn't say anything. He's talking, he's saying things he doesn't really justify. Now we've all heard how welcome we are to connect Darsa with the maintenance company. Great, yeah, who created it? In 1996, the government regulation. Of course, this was not accepted by the National Assembly, but I would like to know what they expected at the time, but what happened in seven years, and from that decision until now, that we are all so happy today that this will happen. And then they tell us and write us about goals that have nothing to do with more effective action in the field. Looks like it's mostly about hiding public debt. That we continue to push our heads into the sand somewhere, in the hope that the world will not see it, it will not detect it, of course, but we keep counting that we will continue to sell the success story in the home. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really think it is possible to hide this for a long time - but why is it in a hurry? From where did this claim come from, Europe is not in favour of public companies, and who said so, but where did you get it? Not that we are opposed to private private capital playing a key role in all this work in the field of motorways. Yeah, sure, I'm up for that. But there's no evidence that this is, so we need to change the law. There is not one argument, either of the 83 articles of the Economic Public Services Act makes it impossible for you today to act entrepreneurshiply and effectively already. There's no data in here, no numbers, no statement in the blank. I listened with pleasure to my colleague Anderlich, and I thought that, all of a sudden, the Liberal Democracy would come to its senses, but no. And now they're done again, and in one month, we're gonna figure it all out. And the basis for this is two studies that we don't have at our disposal. The economic justification for this is in the 25th indents of one half of this Rapporteur. And it refers to a study made by a private company of the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law. Ladies and gentlemen, I am an economist - such a justification as it is written here - I do not know the study, can each use it and prove it to be very effective and effective if the government decides to open the ditches and another group of workers will close them. Of course, this also has macroeconomic effects. However, we do not have in our country, we have not done anything once, and we still do not have what my colleague Sok requested in his presentation on behalf of the parliamentary group, an analysis of the effectiveness of the project.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u23	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u24	Yes, it's been a while, sir, but I still have a lot to say. The fact is, we're doing this irresponsiblely. I'm asking you, what else is this national council going to do? Now we're going to pass some kind of law, then we're going to sign two contracts, namely, Mrs. Darsa and the government, the National Assembly will know nothing about it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u25	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u26	Where are we going?Oh, my God! Please, let me change my mind! This isn't a serious operation. I assure you that all my powers that I have - otherwise they are not as strong as yours, of course, but I will use them - will really make the Slovenian public understand what is behind this project.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u27	Can you close, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u28	I conclude, Mr President, that this is an irresponsible proposal to make it completely irresponsible for the National Assembly to agree to this and that there is an urgent public debate in Slovenia on what we are doing with the 718 billion basic resources that Dars now has; to whom we will give it and for what. Don't you really want to know where those optical cables are recorded? Who are they going to own? Yeah, what are we doing with our own country?Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal must not be accepted, public debate is necessary, Slovenians need to know what this national assembly is doing and what the government is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u29	Branko Janc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In principle, I think it would be wise to consider the resolution of the national programme when considering this law. In fact, these two documents are linked, and at the moment, I am asked where the highway project is at all - whether it is a political project of all the governments and also a policy, whether this is an economic project, which would also mean some coordinated and equitable regional development. If this is a project by Slovenia and if we are assessing that it is a project which is very important in economic terms, then, in addition to the warnings given by the debaters before me, it is necessary to ask whether the financial capabilities enable the implementation of the national programme of motorways. In fact, let's start at the beginning, namely, how we started building highways in Slovenia. With the so-called gas toll, which is no longer the case today, it is a classic budget source, where the budget for the following year is already under consideration and for 2005 there is a tendency to reduce these funds. Roads, which are one of the sources of construction, do not follow the initial dynamics of the toll height. In fact, the tolls were always lagging behind the original construction, which provided for partial financing of the construction. With regard to borrowing at home and abroad, it has been repeatedly evident, including on my part, that loans are too light and too adventurous a way of the country to reach so deep into its credit potential and thus increase public debt. So it seems to me that this part, of course, when we are talking about building dynamics in recent years, is essentially nourished and that the national construction programme is not being implemented. We have, of course, made a mistake because we have changed the basic concept of the national programme through our annual highway construction and maintenance programmes, and of course we have repeatedly confirmed something that has not been recorded in the national programme. Thus, at this point, two years before the completion of the basic national programme for the construction of motorways, we find that we have built half or less of the motorway. I think it's inappropriate for us to charge Dars with this account that he didn't get this program. Dars was working in the framework of what the state decided to give him. However, it is a matter of whether the motorway is actually, from an economic point of view, a project that is important or not. And if it is important, of course this law does not answer the key question. So the solutions of this law, by which we integrate the public highway maintenance company into the so-called new Dars and make it possible to transform Dars from a public company to a share company, of course allow for two types of new financing, although I claim that the tender for so-called motorway bonds, which is somehow possible by this law, has already been carried out in the adoption of the guarantee law, EUR 246 million, where we have also written down that this also covers potential tendering bonds for Dars. However, it seems to me that by recapitalising Dars, by investing about 9 billion or 10 billion in a real deposit in the new Dars and retaining the majority stake in the new Dars, of course, we will allow the recapitalisation of only 10 billion tolls to be spent on the construction of motorways. I think this is a completely irrelevant share of a resource as much as it takes to complete highways. For this reason, of course, I would like to put the following thesis: If we have decided and if we find that highways in Slovenia are necessary, then let us go to this project a little more boldly. Indeed, it is unsustainable for us in Slovenia to defend any private capital with such a balance sheet. Even recapitalisation, if Slovenia decided and, of course, recapitalised Dars, with actual investments in the form of motorways, and thus, of course, enabled the recapitalisation of Dars or partial privatisation of Dars with some greater amount, where both institutional investors and other private investors could be involved, could, of course, reduce the completion deadlines of motorways from 2013 to a shorter period and a longer period. Look, neither in this law nor in the resolution is there any guarantee that we will actually complete the Slovenian motorway cross by 2013, there is no guarantee. And because of this, it seems to me, in view of the warnings given before me by colleague Ašič and the leader of the Anderlič Group, that we do not have covered or other connecting roads and other state roads, which, of course, will come as amendments to the resolution of the national programme, these two documents will make it inoperable. I propose, of course, that by the second reading, the drafter of the law seriously consider this. How to provide additional resources for the implementation of the programme? For with these resources in fact - these are no longer assumptions, but facts - that the share of the state budget in the so-called petrol tolar is rapidly falling and will fall even more. That the tolls are barely sufficient to maintain highways regularly and to pay credits and that new additional debts will virtually be no more, but we will replace these debts with a bond tender in, as presented, two tranches in effect by 2015 and then 2030, means that we will not complete these motorways with these resources. Once again, I appeal to you, representatives of the government, to reconsider whether to go forward with this law, as is now proposed, or to reconsider the possibility of additional private private capital available in Slovenia to invest in further construction. And, of course, this will do partly not only the privatisation of the activity but also the privatisation of the objects themselves, i.e. the highway network. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u31	Thank you. The word is Blaž Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u32	This law, as well as other laws, must, of course, also be seen from the perspective of the users of motorways and from the perspective of taxpayers. Here it is probably necessary to clearly point out some indicative criterion that, with the changes that this law brings, nothing bad should happen to the users of motorways and to Slovenian taxpayers, it is said that our expectations for this law are that, in particular, categories such as tolls and such tax burdens for maintenance and for the construction of motorways should not develop in a negative direction for stakeholders. Basically, I think that the intention of this proposal is correctly drawn up. I see it as creating conditions for a more efficient intergenerational arrangement to build such a type of facility as motorways. I see extensions for such regulation in that reorganisation takes place when this entity can achieve a better quality resource structure for further construction and maintenance of motorways. While the proposaler is putting concessions at the forefront here, I do not reject it, but I believe that the issue of concessions should be as some colleagues have mentioned, but it is clearly presented as to how much the concession will cost, what its content, what will be, what will be the revenue dynamics, what expenditure the concession will give up under this concession, what will it get, so that it will of course be easier to decide further on the adoption of this law. Personally, however, a larger challenge, I see more options in the area of better financial instruments. Here I believe that we must first and foremost define the bonds and probably the share capital that could be acquired in this way. If we do not achieve this solution, we have not actually achieved much, so I think that these objectives must be built into the further scrutiny of this law. What does a better financial structure mean? It means that the project of the motorway, whose orchards will be present in Slovenia and the effects will be present in the coming decades, that it also needs to be approached by sources of funding, is said that we are not burdening the current generation of users and taxpayers, but proportionally, saying that we are somehow trying to stretch these financial burdens for a longer period. I believe that this law has been imposed in such a way that it should meet this condition. I also believe that it is possible to see rationalisation in the merger of the highway maintenance company and Darsa. It may be necessary to know how to define this more precisely and how to say it - because some of the rationalisation procedures will be painful. It will have to be at least a relative reduction in the number of employees, as the scope is unlikely to be so wide that we can say that, with the scope of the business, we can insist on increasing the number of employees so far. With regard to the implementation of the national highway construction programme, it is possible to say that we have achieved a lot of useful things, and I hope that further solutions to this law will also help us to do what we have created - we have created projectively, operationally, some business logistics in Dars - that we will retain this and that we will successfully develop this concept. Since time is limited, I would like to conclude my debate here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you. Also Leopold Kremjar, who has some time left.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u34	Something small. Thank you very much. So this bill is certainly a pebble in some mosaic that we are talking about today, and this is of course editing, I will say, the whole problem of roads and road construction - and as such it should be taken. It should be taken as a fraction of this regulation and also as what it is, as a first reading, which will experience further changes and additions, irrespective of the relative time between the first, second and subsequent treatments. But no matter what. I think it is important to mention a few things about this law and beyond. That's the thing we're all talking about. This is a necessity for us to get some more capital, in addition to what we now have written down and from which motorways are mainly built. This is private capital, which, of course, we must not be afraid of and where we must not see in any way immediately any possibility that someone wants something to do with some corruption and so on. It's simply that the bag is just the way it is. And that we can decide that we will be building motorways for 30 years - we know what this means for economic development then, because it is not only our comforts on these roads, it is mainly economic development - or whether we will, and for that we also have loans, accelerated this construction and accelerated in this way, as has already been said, that it will be intergenerational, not only use, but also the burden of building these roads. It's this law that helps to sort things out. Just as I am sure that it will also solve some mistakes - not just this law, the whole policy around it - that have been in the past, which are now being resolved. Let me mention only the Pyhrn highway, section Maribor-Gruškovje, where at some point we threw the matter out of our ideas that we should stay on this path. Well, that's coming back now. I'd just like to mention the tolls. Even with these optical cables, there are no major problems, as this is an economically good investment, but it is only a matter of control over these matters. In short, let us take this law - and I will support it myself - in the first reading as a basis for getting a good marriage and as a part of solving the whole problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u35	Thank you. Now I give my word to the government. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As representatives of the proposer of this law, we have listened carefully to the views of the groups of Members. If I may sum it up, virtually most of the debaters have found that the status transformation of Dars also requires the smooth, accelerated continuation of Slovenian motorways. On the basis of changes in the law, we will arrange for the organisation and management of the construction, maintenance and management of the motorway in a manner similar to that normally regulated in the countries of the European Union. It is known that the European Union's acquis is not favoured by monopolies, as one of the fundamental principles of the European Union is the free movement of goods, capital and services. Therefore, it is also necessary to implement the status transformation as soon as possible. The essence of the amendments to the law is to move from a legal mandate to a contractual relationship, as is usually the case in European Union countries. In doing so, Dars will continue to be bound by the Public Procurement Act in order to organise and manage the construction of the motorway and, consequently, also by the Court of Auditors. Once again, I stress that the purpose of this proposal is not to privatise any privatisation or motorways which are and will remain public good, i.e. state-owned, it is not the purpose of this bill to privatise management activities, to maintain the motorways carried out by Dars. The law already in force in Article 4 allows for a change in the company’s core capital, provided that the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia does not fall below 51%. This is further exacerbated by changes to the law by requiring the consent of the national assembly. Dear Members and Members! In your discussions, constructive proposals and suggestions have been made which the applicant will take into account in the follow-up procedure. I propose that you support the adoption of this bill and allow its further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u37	Thank you. Since we have only two minutes left, it is not worth opening a new debate, so I would like to close the debate. I thank the Secretary of State, Dr. Tomaž Vidic, and the Mag. Janez Bozich, president of the board, for cooperation. On the proposal to conclude that the law or proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today at 10 p.m. and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. At 11:00 and 50 minutes, we move on to 24th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u38	Colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to 24. Period of the day - First of all, a proposal for a law on collective additional retirement insurance for public servants. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, with the first-signed Anton Anderlich, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I welcome in our midst the Minister of the Interior, Dr Council of Bohinca and the Director of the Public Sector Wage System Office, Mr Igor Klinar. And I give the floor to the representative of the government to further explain the bill. Dr. Rada Bohinc, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u39	Nice hello to you all! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me to refresh your memory of the text and the background of this text of today's law on collective supplementary pension insurance. On 28 July this year, the government signed an annex to the collective agreement on non-agriculture with 11 unions, signatories to the collective agreement on non-agriculture, which is one of the basis for the creation of the law that we are considering today. It is therefore a partnership agreement created in the social dialogue, in which, through their union representatives, public sector employees have renounced the August escalation on the basis that their right to collective supplementary pension insurance will be regulated by law. A right that will arise in such a way that the law will provide for the payment of the premium of the collective additional pensionable account of denials to the August escalator. On the basis of this annex, the Government has drawn up a proposal for this law, which means some continuation of the reform of the pension system, which was justified by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act already in 2000, by the application of the possibility of the so-called second pillar of collective pension insurance. This is how the law regulates the supplementary collective insurance system at the origins of the other system law on pension and disability insurance. There are two, three specialities defined by the law. The first speciality concerns who may be the manager of a closed mutual pension fund. In addition to the management companies established by the system law, this law proposes, in agreement with the union, that the owners of the assets of the closed fund may also be insurance companies, banks, pension companies and the capital fund of pension and disability insurance. That's the first exception. The second, more important exception or speciality concerns tax reliefs. The amount of the premium paid under this Act, or after an annex, shall not be included, irrespective of the provisions of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as a basis for income or even as a basis for social security contributions of the insured. The amount of the premium shall also not be recognised to the employer as expenditure and tax relief in respect of the corporate tax. Well, there's a third specialty. Public servants, the so-called elderly, who are less than 10 years old before meeting the minimum conditions for obtaining the right to an old pension, shall have the opportunity to choose either a pension on that basis or to pay the ransom on the day of retirement. These are actually three basic features. Otherwise, the whole system is governed by the law on pension and disability insurance, as otherwise agreed in the annex signed with the government of trade unions. Under this law and annex, the lowest possible premium will be 4040 tolars and the highest 10,118 tolars. The premiums are already being charged, including for the month of August 2003, and everything must finally be prepared for the calculation and payment of the premiums in April 2004. It is therefore very important that the law be adopted by the end of this year. This is also our obligation from the annex, and we believe that it is an important improvement in the area of supplementary pension insurance in Slovenia, which will involve 140 000 public servants, and also a real agreement from the social partnership with the public sector unions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you for this supplementary explanation. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is by Ivan Kebric, a group of democratic parties of pensioners, DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues and distinguished Mr Minister, on behalf of the government, this bill, which will affect so many people, is worth at least 700 000 in this country. I'll prove it. First of all, there's something else. As the government prepared this law, it is clear that they first proposed twice after a reduced procedure, then they informed us that they are turning into an emergency procedure. However, we have seen at the college the seriousness of the problem, and of course the responsibility for this law, and we have decided not to deal with the urgent procedure, even more, we have achieved, with the signatures of ten Members, that a general debate is to be held, because we are aware that if we go straight to the second reading, there is no amendment that could improve this proposal. I therefore appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, that we reject this law in the evening, that it is not appropriate for a second hearing and that the government prepare such a law that will be fair to all citizens equally. In today’s Work, the director of the Wages Office has allowed himself to have two facts that do not hold or, in the home, do not drink the water with which he deceives the public. The first fact is that this additional pension insurance, briefly referred to by the other pillar, continues to be reformed on the one hand and, on the other hand, replaces all those future pensioners with what the pension base is reduced by 0.5% annually. However, it does not say that the pensions of the current generation of pensioners and also those who do not have the option, because they may on the one hand have less than ten years to meet the pension requirement and no insurance company, no supplementary pension insurance company accepts them because, of course, this is not paid. On the other hand, for concrete reasons and with strong arguments, I will now prove why this law is not suitable for adoption. If the National Assembly votes this evening despite these arguments - but with an argument of power - it will vote on what will be unjust to so many and so many citizens of our country. What do you say, colleagues and colleagues, about taking over the public sector instead of individuals as a simple state, in agreement with the unions, to think about them and to decide for them? That they no longer have the right to decide on their salaries that they have earned, on their contribution, on their own disposition, on how they will decide, or in the long term or in the short term, on how they will benefit from their money, on how they will spend it, or on why this part also has to be forcibly protected, as Mr Bohinc, who, on behalf of the government, on behalf of the Government, has just said, has said, advocated this bill. Where there is justice, where there is legal equality - in the next case. Let us take one who took up the job after August 1st this year and received a gross salary of 200 thousand dollars, while the other has been in the ministry for 35 years, regardless of whether or not he was in the ministry. If he was in the public service, what Minister Bohinc said would apply to him. The first will receive 4 000 tolars at 200,000, and the second will receive 4 000 tolars at the state, so to speak, in the public service, say 35 years or more, 10 thousand 118. What's the logic here? A peasant, simple logic. Why one more, on whose account? At the expense of the social supporters, at the expense of those unemployed who receive compensation and, last but not least, at the expense of 530 thousand or more, I always speak in round numbers, pensioners who depend on their pension, for which, after that continuation, no further assessment of the pension reform is left to the Constitutional Court, which has not been able to address this problem for two years. Is it constitutional that even the present generation and the generation expected to continue in their next ten years of service will receive such a pension? In Germany, Austria and elsewhere they have left pensions such as these, they are reforming on the basis of that additional second pillar and have this opportunity to make voluntary decisions. You could read it in materials, but maybe it's not there, and I have it, that in the European Union, on average, there's an extra 25 percent insured in the second pillar, the only Furlandia. [[?]] over 80%, which is simply because they have this additional pension insurance there for over 100 years, and we will, if this proposal is accepted tonight, and if the adoption of this law is in the final stage, we will simply have over, with these 140 thousand - according to the latest figures, something voluntary additional in the second pillar of the insured is said to be about 200 000 - that is 360 and is again misleading publicly when certain advocates of this bill, which will mean 140 thousand employees in the public sector up to 800 000. The elementary school knows that these 140 thousand are covered in the 800 thousand and that if you look at the situation, you have to compare 140 to 660 because the total is 800 thousand. It's so simple, I don't want to use another term, deceiving the public, and it's easy to do, according to your own words, nice. The second reason why the parliamentary group opposes this law is as follows. The gross salary won't go up. Instead of this increase, says the government representative, Minister, instead of 2.4, which according to the previous law would have been raised in the public sector by 2.4%, let me say that this does not apply to officials. We do not fight in the National Assembly, our Group of Members or any of us, for some additional privilege, but this does not apply to officials. Every day, if we save or want to save the state budget, we can freeze wages; the executive branch can do so, as well as justice, because there are officials in these services and officials are not subject to collective bargaining. However, in order to resolve the state budget, if it is in crisis, at the expense of 530,000 pensioners, who will not be as modest as they will be to compensate the unemployed and other recipients of such and other social assistance - in order to save themselves on these, I will not say backs, but on those wallets, which are already so modest today, and will, through the fact that the second year of February or March will not be adequate harmonisation of such compensation, both social support and pensions, which, under article 150, should be and would then be fair to all the recipients I have mentioned, more appropriately, fairly increased. Now this part of the population will save what seems to someone to make up for. I know that there are other proposals for addressing budget deficits. One is - why the government does not simply agree to freeze all wages, and it would immediately help and reduce inflation if they at the same time claim that wages are the main generator. That's not true! Pays are only one part of the inflation generator or for deflation. Read in Finance and other professional newspapers today what causes inflation and the cost of living! Life's costs are most affected by weather, natural disasters - if it's drought, it's less potatoes and it's more expensive. However, if it is a very good harvest, the prices of such crops give rise to the basics of the cost of living, at least of that part, a segment of the population that does not know how it will conclude the beginning of the month at the end. Inflation has always been only for the benefit of rich people who had high incomes. Next reason we're talking about it. Because the pension base will be reduced to those who are not aware of the public sector at all, because others do not tell them, some who still have enough or much time to retire do not think about pensions, but only hear something and leave it, but I will allow myself to comment, to shed my mind on such or other biases or objections and discussions. Just look at the example, and many of us experience being called, and they say that we wouldn't be insured. When you tell them how old you are, they put the phone down immediately because they have no interest in getting older ones. They only want to receive those who will or should have paid for 30 or 40 years, with this proposal having the following drawbacks. Where does it say how this is going to go? Is it true that today or who has entered into the work after 1.1 and will be struck by this law if adopted - I sincerely hope that it will not be accepted - would only say where it is written that he will receive a bonus in one way or another for 40 years. Where it is written that one who is now 35 years old will only work for five years if he does not have other conditions. In the basic law, however, we have adopted and stimulated the long - term work of people, the love of the truth, the less time they enjoy a pension with or on demographic changes. Even those who are employed today are asking how many years this bonus will pay. And the basic question is when some people can think about what's going to happen to this savings guy, so to speak, to capital in 30 or 40 years. What's he going to be worth then? How many of these, such and other pension companies and insurance companies go bankrupt because the cost of management or their speculation, when making certain amounts, is invested in non-profitable and other. Because I'm running out of time, that's all. Ladies and gentlemen, listen to that creature of your heart that beats and sounds social. Listen to those who listen, or close your ears so that you will not hear the roaring next year, close your eyes to those who think you will vote this law, so that you will not see those who are crying for a little more coordinated compensation next year, a little less elevated, a fairer pension, and all the rest. I think it is worth considering that it is worth hearing the second side of the medal, looking at the second side of the medal, hearing the second side of the bell, not just what the finance ministry is singing to us. I agree that they are responsible for taking care of the country, but we Members are Members of all citizens, including those who are poor. I'm not responsible for this alone in front of my client or in front of my constituents. I feel, here is the point, not just the responsible one, I feel responsible if this law is adopted and I will be equally sad with all those equally responsible, because with my arguments I failed to show you the situation as it is, because you didn't want to listen to the second side of the bell because you didn't want to see the second side of the medal, which is what I turned and lit up. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you. I give the floor to Bojan Kontic for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal of the Law on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, as it is our assessment of the important achievement of the social partners in the agreements, how to lead a long-term acceptable income policy, and how to provide public servants who are still active, comparable pensions to those who retired before the year 2000, the Agreement of the Social Partners, which was the result of long-term difficult negotiations and related to the transfer of the envisaged revalorative salary of 2.4% from August to the supplementary pension of public servants, has certainly contributed to the achievement of several important objectives. Above all, it seems important to us in the Group of Members that this difficult agreement, supported by the majority in the negotiations, has been reached and that we have thus maintained the concept of social partnership in addressing all issues relating to the situation of employees. The regulation of wage policy issues by 140 thousand employees is very difficult, especially in the sector that employs so many jobs, and almost all partners have shown great maturity and responsibility in the negotiations, which gives us optimism in the implementation of the new law on the public sector wage system. In our view, the results of this agreement will have an impact on the launch of the second pillar of public service pension insurance as an important element of the long-term social security of public servants. To reduce inflation, which is important in view of our objectives after inclusion in the euro area by 2007. To better manage income policies in the public sector and to reduce income disparities in the public sector, which have already reached unacceptable levels. We believe in the parliamentary group that without the agreement reached and the condition for the adoption of this law, the conditions for the implementation of the second pillar of public service pension insurance, which is normally in most European countries, would not have been met for years. This would reduce social security at the age of an important part of the workforce, as a result of the changes in pension legislation adopted in 2000. The fact is that a small pension reform has brought us a 0.5 per cent reduction in the rate of dose for each year of work, and that is why all future pensioners will receive a lower pension than 85 per cent of the full-time pension rate that applied to full-time pensioners before 2000. Therefore, the immediate introduction of additional collective pension insurance is necessary, as we have already missed a few years. In this arrangement for additional collective pension insurance, however, it is certainly worth listening to warnings about how such an arrangement will affect those benefits that are linked to the average wage. Since it is a pension insurance provided by employees with the cancellation of their already agreed salary raises, it would certainly suggest that these premiums should also be included in the salaries of employees and thus ensure that benefits such as pensions are actually followed by the salaries of employees, and in this case also to the already agreed salaries from August onwards. In the United List of Social Democrats, we also welcome this law because it will allow for the implementation of an agreed supplementary pension insurance in a way that reduces wage differences in the public sector, as we have written in the law on the public sector wage system for gradual implementation by 2008. Since wage coordination is carried out through fixed pension premium amounts, depending on the working age, and regardless of the level of income, such a solution to the implementation of the law will therefore make a significant contribution to reducing wage differences, which would otherwise be maintained at a linear increase of 2.4 per cent for all civil servants. Therefore, should I conclude, the proposed law will be supported in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats and we hope that there will be at least problems in its difficult implementation. The law will obviously be adopted quite late, given the many necessary activities that will have to be carried out only after its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u44	Thank you. Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! Let me begin by agreeing in many ways with everything my respectable colleague, Kebric, has said. But I still don't understand, but don't insult me, the relationship between the coalition and the opposition, during the coordination that you have or you don't have. The proposed Government Act on Collective Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants was intended to establish legal bases for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for all public servants in accordance with. The next element that seems important to me to mention. In the Member States of the European Union, the system of collective pension insurance for civil servants is already in place, and that is why the adoption of this law also means coordination with the legal orientations of the European Union - excellent! However, following this behaviour, which we have in the Slovenian National Party, increasingly frequent findings have been made, both in the European Union and in the United States, that these funds are not profitable and that they are therefore terminated. The goals of the law. It is necessary to ensure the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for all civil servants already this year. This law is supposed to regulate certain specificities of certain categories of civil servants, but I am not clear between these objectives. As far as we know in the Slovenian National Party, there was no consensus among trade unions on the increase or harmonisation of August's wages. Another ambiguity that's open. The proposed amendment we are talking about relates to the law supplementing the law on the public sector wage system - I think it was discussed at the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. According to the Slovenian National Party, this law is impracticable. In our view, the legal area is unregulated. There is still no definition of what will happen to workers who will leave the public administration. Due to the impreciseness and superficiality of the legislators in the Slovenian National Party, we have not supported the previous draft law. In addition, the government has not obtained the opinion or support of public companies in previous coordinations. In the end, what can I say? So that I'm not smarter than the smart ones, when I don't understand why the parties within the coalition don't get along, and one and the other are condemning each other, I'm going to ask the questions that I hope we'll get the answers. The questions raised in the Slovenian National Party when adopting the Collective Additional Pension Insurance Act are opened or raised are: Why are more institutions or managers of one closed fund? In our opinion and logic, more operators are higher management costs per saver. Question number two: Does the state guarantee, if we say domestically, is the state holding hands with the administrators? According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, no. Next question: What about funds based on Article 4? Next question: When and how can employees in public administration benefit from their resources? Next question: If a worker is employed for a certain period of time and his next job is outside the public administration, how does such a worker come to the resources or how does the funds go forward? For according to our assessment, as far as we have been able to read, the law speaks only of those whose employment is terminated before the first payment. [[This is referred to in paragraphs 8 and 9.]] . If it is a transfer from one fund to another, what are the costs? Who pays for them? How much is left for the savior? Not one, but according to some data, only between 10% and 20% of the saver is left. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that there is a saver at the loss. Whether this is the case or not, we will be judged together, probably from the answers we will receive from the bill-maker. However, if the National Assembly adopts such a law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, we will probably get an answer as to whether the saver is alone at the loss. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that we simply say no to the law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants in view of the many uncertainties and the reasons given. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you. I give the floor to Dr Michael Brejc for the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u47	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! This law is the result or, rather, the result of the chaos in the area of wages, as a result of the frivolous and unwise conduct of Drnovskov's governments and the Robb's government at the end of the day. And to talk about how we heard last year that 2.4% of wage harmonisation would threaten the budget, I don't know what terrible consequences for the country, it shows that this government is vulnerable to 2.4% of the increase in public sector wages and that this budget is threatened by this. So, if we believe these words - I hope they were not so thought out or that it is not such a serious situation - then that would mean that we are in a difficult situation. And that what the Prime Minister said last Monday and planted flowers on us about a great budget, and so on, has nothing to do with reality. Instead of harmonising salaries last year, an agreement was reached with the unions, with which additional pension insurance would therefore take place instead of these 2.4%. In doing so, they supported the interests of 140,000 employees. But today he has warned, colleague Kebrich, what about pensioners, but what about all those who are tied to wage harmonisation and wage growth? What about pensioners and their right to comply? I think it is simply impossible to go beyond this fact that a hundred decisions of the government are affected and that the government is now causing some discrimination here. When Mr Kontič mentioned, by the way, that this part of the pension payment would somehow be incorporated into the quota, from which the level of harmonisation of pensions is then determined, he obviously ignored the fact that this would require a change in certain rules and that it would further increase the confusion that is already already strong in the area of wages. On the other hand, as I, of course, agree with what Mr Kebric said, I cannot help but say that pensioners have served very faithfully all these years, and have obeyed and voted, ruling the elite. If I recall far back, let's say for the last 10 years, you have always applauded all that the President of the Republic said, as President Drnovšek, Prime Minister, said, as Minister Rob said in charge of work, family and social affairs. All this was sacred to you. You met at these meetings and applauded the solutions they told you about. Where were you last year? I didn't hear Mr. Vinko Gobc say anything against the government last year! And last year, actually, DeSUS didn't do much. For example, your president could also hold a press conference where he would finally hit the table and not talk about how Mr Rope is a great Prime Minister. Well, it's none of my business after all, but the pensioners may have a strange feeling about how you guys work now. But after all, what you've been sowing, you reap it. A policy that is unprincipled, sooner or later collides with a variety of interests and takes a shorter one. The government doesn't solve anything with this law. It saves on the salaries of public sector employees, saves on pensioners and all those entitled to social assistance. He buys a luxury plane for himself, buys top-class cars, spends his money for himself because he's the government. With this law, the government does not solve the system of salaries, of course not, but it does confuse the area of supplementary pension insurance. This area has so far been relatively consistent. Okay, well, we all know there are some problems, but the system is set anyway. There are some problems in implementation, as we know. But with these exceptions, the government introduces non-systemic solutions. And against creating a new chaos, of course, we are in our parliamentary group, I would say, very energetic against. By this law, therefore, he introduces the government's confusion into the area of supplementary pension insurance. Why? Like a couple of cases. The start of the insurance is August 1, 2003. However, the government will pay the debt by the end of April next year. An interesting situation, it is said, is already one privilege that other citizens do not have or other employers. Other employers must pay the premium when it is paid, and this is the month when this insurance is established. What does that mean that the insurance starts to run on August 1st and will pay in April? The situation is very similar to what we have seen before, namely, all these liberal governments of October, November and December payments were transferred or payments were made to be made more clearly in January, February, March of next year. That's something like that. So, the same model we've seen so far is now emerging in this area. For public servants, where, of course, the employer pays this premium, it will not be, so it will in short be a higher benefit to the income. Why do we make it easier? Why public servants? Why just the public sector? Thus, in the area of supplementary pension insurance, the government also makes some differences. The relief from income will therefore be greater for the employees and for all the others it will not be. The money will be made available to public servants under this heading of supplementary pension insurance before all other insurers are able to obtain it, and even more favourable will be taxed again. That is to say, the government with this law is creating new differences and creating chaos in this area, what it has been doing for 10 years in the area of wages is now in the area of pensions. The realisation of this agreement is also very problematic. Actually, since the 19 trade unions, if I remember correctly, 7 unions haven't signed, so I kind of feel like I forgive if the number isn't real, but I think that somehow, 7, 8 didn't sign it. Unions are not all employees anyway. Of course they have representative status, but this is something other than the whole of all employees in the public sector. That is said, even those who are not members of the union are told to do so and because this is the law. Even if there was only one non-member of the union, that would be unfair. Then, all the time, we talked about it being a voluntary supplementary pension insurance for public servants. Well, this volunteering is already a problem here. If something is mandatory, then we cannot say that it is voluntary; if the government does so on behalf of the employees, of course it does not. Otherwise something will get complicated - let's say that this law was passed and then they get involved in further coordination with the unions - what will happen then? Yeah, probably the government's gonna have to cut deep in its pocket and pay interest. So, what wasn't paid by August, plus interest. So not only do I criticize the government because it continues to act confusedly in this area, but because it creates differences between citizens. What about equality before marriage? This is one of the fundamental rules of every democratic society that breaks down. For if someone who is in the economy pays for their employee premiums, as the country will, there are no benefits as they are here. It just can't be that way. From the point of view of equality before the law, the equality of citizens has greatly affected the rights of others and affected other people. Slovenia is an accessionist and will become a full member next year. The European Union guidelines make it very clear that it is not allowed to make differences between employees in relation to the job. The government's doing it. The government here makes a difference. In doing so, they calculated - I refer to union data, SWIZ, and Mr Strugar, from which it is calculated that, at the limit of 5,844% of the gross salary, they will not be able to implement the entire premium. Thus, there will also be some differences within the public sector. That someone else would be justified if the government respected what was before, that they would simply not be able to get it, but would get less. There was also talk about funds. Of course, we all know of the sad experiences of workers who for decades have paid into the pension fund in Enron's energy system, and then lost everything. It is therefore wise - if the law is passed and so on - to disperse these funds, in the event that this happens, in order to ensure that the financial contribution is as secure as possible. This is what I'm saying now assuming that the majority will take over again, because the DeSUS obviously has no power in the coalition and you need it just because you're missing four votes, but you don't have these problems lately. So, these funds - so let's not be one fund, but let there be more. However, I fear that this will be all again in Ljubljana. In order for Ljubljana to have capital again, all other parts of Slovenia will be wiped out under its nose. Otherwise, I must say, for all those living in Ljubljana and in the immediate vicinity, it is actually perfectly fine if the Slovenian universal elective body is so excited about the concentration of capital, service, standard and everything else in Ljubljana, and the province is failing. And apparently they are satisfied with such a policy of liberal democracy, united leaves, people's parties and so on and DeSUS. But the fact is, if there is a capital concentration here too, this difference between the centre of the country and the periphery will increase further. I don't doubt that. In short, we will wait today for the government's answers, and we will see how the government will explain these systemic issues that I have been talking about. The position of our parliamentary group is negative to this law. However, the decision will wait until the vote and decide how to vote before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you. Comrade Janez Podobnik, position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After the performance, consistently, the opposition Member, a respected colleague, and Professor Dr. Brejc, listen now to the government representative's performance. In the Slovenian People's Party and in today's Members, the government can have its backing. Today, we will support the proposed law here tonight, assessing that it is a suitable basis for further action. However, some concerns have already been said that have their weight, and I will point them out myself, and in our opinion we can incorporate them into the law and improve it. The reform of compulsory pension and disability insurance has been in effect for the fourth year. The specific replacement rate shall be reduced from year to year. This proves that the immediate introduction of a collective supplementary pension scheme for public servants not yet included in the collective supplementary pension scheme, since further delaying the introduction of this additional pension scheme would significantly exacerbate their social and material situation after retirement would be justified. The proposed law provides legal grounds for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance. And it means, according to the applicant's assessment, ensuring their more appropriate material and social position after retirement. Which, according to the applicant, is also an important contribution to the implementation of pension reform or the establishment of a second pension pillar, is a fundamental reason for the adoption of this law. The source of pension premiums will be funds that were not used to harmonise the base salary for non-economic activities in August 2003, which will be assessed by macroeconomicists as a positive impact on the reduction in inflation rates. However, there will be no misunderstanding, as macro-economicists point out, but this is not a key element that affects the reduction of inflation. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the efforts made and the results of this battle for inflation, and we will therefore support the law. I'd like to say here that this marriage has a broader meaning. Slovenia actually needs a new development consensus. Slovenia does not need a new chaos, but a new development consensus. And social partnership is an important element of such a development consensus. Here, respected colleagues have raised the issue of the legitimacy of trade unions and their representatives in these negotiations. Unfortunately, they didn't agree. If we agreed, their legitimacy would be much greater, but we must respect their majority decision. For Slovenia, the positive example of Ireland, which has established an excellent model with its social partnership over the past 15 years, which has been called the lever of policy development. If I just list their last five, three-year periods, we will see that it has always been a synthesis of the economy and the social sector - a programme for economic and social progress, a programme for competitiveness and work, a partnership 2000 to integrate employment and competitiveness, a programme for prosperity and justice, and the last one to take place now, to preserve development. And in Ireland, the social partnership was a key element. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, you must understand us, including members of the coalition, that we will not undermine the elements of the social partnership in Parliament, but we will upgrade them, especially with the cooperation of legal and other experts. We do, however, have some questions that I repeat here, so that the proposer may incorporate them into his proposal for a law or a working body. The law does not specify the period during which the State will pay these premiums, the funds are provided only for 2004 and 2005. Has it ensured that the State will regularly pay for such a special fund in advance? The agreement was only reached for harmonisation for August 2003. Does this mean that, with the next envisaged harmonisation, trade unions will be able to recover a better buy-in, because paying the premium to the pension fund instead of harmonising wages will not be a permanent solution, as this could also make the situation of public servants worse, no later than when an agreement is reached on the public sector wage system and the reason for the inclusion of premiums will somehow fall away. We're being asked the question of costs. Why does the government thus establish a special fund, what about existing pension funds, or are they not enough? What if the state does not regularly pay the premiums to the fund, or if there is a situation here that a fund that does not have regular flows of fresh money could survive in another way, especially if we take into account all the envisaged options for paying the premiums? The law does not provide for provisions that would travel to the applicable legislation governing pension funds with regard to the implementation of return commissions, so what rules will then apply to this fund? If the rule of the applicable pension fund legislation were not to apply, why is a specific pension fund needed - are existing funds not appropriate? On these issues, we would like to actively participate in the further procedure for the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u50	Thank you. The views of the Youth Party will be presented by Marko Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! A proposal for a law on collective supplementary pension insurance for civil servants introduces a special scheme for supplementary collective pension insurance, such as that regulated by the system law, namely the law on pension and disability insurance. In a few points, the proposed legislation substantially changes the general regime, and the question is whether it puts us in a situation that is unconstitutional. The proposal introduces positive discrimination against public servants. This alone is due to the status of the public servant, which is the result of additional tax reliefs which are not granted to other insured persons under the general scheme. Such a distinction is only based on employment and is a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Such arrangements will result in a reduced inflow of income from the pension and health allowance. The proposaler's claim that the proposed law has no additional financial implications is, therefore, only to the extent that there will be no additional outflows from the budget. However, the introduction of additional public service pension insurance under the proposed regime will constitute an outflow to the state budget and the budget of the pension and health institution. The proposed law also discriminates positively against public servants in an article where there is a specific arrangement for the payment of the redemption value. The general and applicable arrangements applicable to all other insurers provide that it is not possible to obtain additional pensions before the expiry of 10 years from the inclusion in the collective supplementary pension. This restriction is not available for public servants under the proposed law, or it is expressly possible to obtain additional pension rights even before 10 years of age. Discrimination will also take place among the employees themselves, as there will be significantly higher contributions for older employees than for young people. Member Kebrich also spoke about this in front of me. In the Young Slovenia Party, we also disagree with the inclusion of all public servants in a single mutual pension fund. This means that all public servants will be insured under the same conditions and also receive equal returns on their assets. This proposal is the most opportunistic loss for young people. For young people will be included in the mutual pension fund for as long as possible, so it would be appropriate for their funds to be invested to a greater extent in different forms of investment, of course, on the basis of their own decision, such as investment in shares, in smaller enterprises, in emerging capital markets and also in venture capital. This rule applies mainly because of the long-term nature of investments. As early as the first year of economic study, students learn that risky investments are more Vulative [[?]] , and in the long run, significantly more profitable than investments in low-risk instruments. Young people with conservative investment policies, which will apply uniformly to all civil servants, will have less resources in their pension account and thus lower additional pensions. With the creation of only one fund, all those involved for longer periods of time are deprived of additional pensions for higher pensions, but because of conservative investment policies they will have lower returns than they would have in more risky funds during the same period. However, management will depend on future additional pensions and thus the standard of living for future pensioners. The main objective of the law is to ensure a better material and social position of public servants after retirement. The contributions paid in the pension plan for supplementary pension insurance are, according to its content, part of the salary whose consumption is deferred to the future. By payment, a public servant acquires certain rights, on which the standard of living depends upon the level of the post-retirement standard. Protection and enforcement of these rights is the purpose of additional pension insurance. Investments in pension plans must be safe and effective. Therefore, the separation of the manager from the sponsor is an essential step in ensuring the security of investments. Any link between the operator and the institution providing additional pension premiums should be legally prohibited. As a rule, it is an employer, in the case of public servants it is the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it is only in this way that it is possible to ensure the full independence of the operator, which is a prerequisite for effective management by the means of future pensioners. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we propose that the proposer already enters into the law the establishment of several mutual pension funds which will differ in the risks of investment policy. Each individual public servant should decide which of the established mutual funds will be included, on the basis of information, of course. Public servants do not have a choice between salary increases and supplementary pension insurance, but they must at least have the option of selecting a mutual fund on which the amount of their pension will depend in the future. In order to avoid doubts as to the constitutionality of the bill, it is also necessary to allow other insurance undertakings to be regulated in the manner proposed for public servants. Additional tax advantages should also be extended to insurers under existing general arrangements. The Government should bring the bill into substance in line with the directive on activities and supervision of institutions implementing pension plans for supplementary pension insurance. Member States of the European Union must harmonise national legislation by 25 September 2005 at the latest. The aim of the Directives is to simplify the rules for the operation of pension plans in the Member States, to allow the free movement of both employees and pension plan managers between Member States and to ensure a high level of safety and efficiency in the operation of supplementary pension schemes. The Directive introduces high mandatory information standards for members involved in pension plans as each member is obliged to submit annual balance sheets and to report the annual High Requirements report are also introduced with regard to the mandatory introduction of criteria for the management of investment policy and standards for investment, auditing and actuarial evaluation. Members of the Young Slovenia Party cannot support the current solutions to the law. If the government takes our proposal into account when preparing the law for second reading, we will reconsider the support of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you. Also Leopold Kremjar, for the views of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u53	Dear Mr. Minister, President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law provides legal grounds for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. Otherwise, the proposal for a law constitutes an upgrade to the law on the public sector wage system or Article 52 thereof. This was necessary and constituted the basis for the conclusion of a new annex to the collective agreement on non-economic activities, under which an equivalent amount of supplementary pension insurance for 2003 is fixed for all public servants. However, after long negotiations between the government and the trade union party on the annex to the collective agreement on non-economic activities, an agreement was reached that the amount of wage harmonisation is intended for the bonus of supplementary pension insurance. The source of pension premiums is therefore resources which were not used to harmonise the base salary for non-economic activities in August 2003, which means that salaries in the public sector have remained nominally unchanged since August. However, the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for public sector employees not yet included in collective supplementary pension schemes is necessary as the further delay in the introduction of such insurance in the public sector would significantly exacerbate their social and material situation after retirement. According to the previous data, fewer than 200,000 insured persons or less than a quarter of the insured persons of compulsory pension and disability insurance provided by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia are included in the voluntary supplementary pension scheme. This would also make an important contribution to the implementation of pension reform and the establishment of a second pension pillar. The LDS MPs will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. By type of re-registered Leopold Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the debate, I would like to draw attention to only one detail that can be seen at this point in time, but nevertheless, I think that this should also be noted. It somehow fell out of the bill, a group belonging to the Slovenian press union, namely journalists who are employed on RTV, as you know, are included in the above-mentioned law on public servants. And it is likely that they are not included in this proposal, more for some procedural reasons, formally procedural, because the Slovenian press union is not a signatory to this collective agreement, which was the basis for these negotiations. Then, for formal reasons too, it was not possible to sign or participate in these coordination procedures, agreements and talks, so that, as it is said, the employees of RTV Slovenia have failed for these procedural reasons and I propose to the proposer to consider comparing them with others and to include them in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you. Maximilian Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He has already solved one embarrassment with his question, Comrade Kremjar. I'd say the following. The proposer is the government in this case. So all we have here is the minister and the director of the office. Some of the questions raised by counterpart Kebrich are valid and require an answer. So, I don't expect you to get an answer to these questions today. However, I think that further to the procedure of this law, the adoption of this law, we must get answers to them. For example, the problem pointed to by counterpart Kebric with different types of social transfers. We would have come to this problem, I must say, even if we had decided to freeze our wages. After all, we have also done so with our own conclusions in the past and have also affected other salaries, such as the courts and all others, who are in some way bound to Members of Parliament, which is also absurd, I will say, to one regulated society. I'd like to ask the following questions myself. Whether it's wise, as I understand it, it's kind of intentional, or so I read it to create just one fund. Is that blue? I'm asking for two reasons. In fact, there are some hands in which these things need to be settled, and whether a single fund is capable or not, that is the first question. And the other security of these investments, if it is one single fund, especially in the light of the words of colleague Kebrich, who pointed out that we also had a fiasco of such funds in such controlled countries as, I don't know, Germany, Austria, in short, Western Europe. I'm not talking about, like, some American systems. In short, I think it is possible to support this law tonight, when we vote on it, only by getting the most exact answers in this area in these areas, in which my colleague Kebric has pointed out. And, another thing, in discussions like this after the towers, it is said that officials in some way are not included in this law and that it might happen that someone, I hope, will not happen, but that someone with a constitutional dispute can find out or achieve that the matter would at least fall for this segment. I'd be sorry. I have to say. Why? Because, for example, if I were to go for the 3.2 or the percentage of my salary up there, it would be 30 grand or more in a million gross wages. And so it should also be for me, who will never actually use it, but I accept it voluntarily, this money that would go for my salary, personally, if I speak, will be distributed in a personal name for a contribution for, in my opinion, four, actually. So this thing, let's say it's good on this side, because I have always before me a law on the public sector wage system, where we wrote that by 2008 we were supposed to get into the ratio of 1 to 10. That's what I need to know, and I'm really worried about how we're gonna get through this. There will be something small now with this decree, which is also the result of this law, which I have mentioned, but it will probably take a lot of effort. Well, which is why, of course, I would like to ask questions raised by my colleague Kebrich and my thoughts on whether or not one or more funds and whether we are in or not, I am talking about officials whose salaries we will talk about very soon, when we consider the proposal for a decision on the placement of individual officials in these classes. Are we there or not? And, in short, is the case covered in the right way and legally also holds in judgment in the Constitutional Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you. My friend Barovic has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Chairman. I've asked quite a few questions. I'm asking another question that I don't personally understand. The Public Sector Salaries Act was adopted in July this year. On the basis of his understanding, today money is to be invested in the pension fund covered by this law, which we are talking about today. However, another amendment to the law is envisaged due to the adoption, if adopted, of today's law. This is where my understanding ends, at least for me personally. Please, also, perhaps to clarify this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you. I will now give my word to the representatives of the government. Who wants to talk? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. A lot of helpful suggestions, I think we'll be able to use them to build up the law. For a very short period of time, I will be very schematic in answering the questions that have been asked. First things first. Our initial proposal was to shorten the procedure. Then, given the business conditions, we identified ourselves as an emergency procedure, unfortunately it was not adopted. Our proposal was that due to the difficult remedial consequences that might arise, we still manage the law in an urgent way. Well, this debate is now over. With regard to Mr Kebric's debate, particularly in the part where he directs the debate towards reducing the basis for the revalorisation of pensions, I can only say that this is not the subject of this law and not of this ministry which has proposed this law. I believe that the arguments put forward are worth all the professional attention and I think that this would fall within the competence of the finance ministry. I would say, however, that there are also some other criticisms concerning the principle of equality of law, but it is necessary to take into account that public servants have renounced the increase in wages and that this is not a matter of public funding, but rather of their private resources, which would otherwise have been paid in the form of increased wages. This is how they will be paid in the form of pensions. And that the privileges on this basis are not likely to discriminate against all those who are willing to opt for a reduction in wages or for refusing an increase in the payment of premiums. My friend Kebrich asks why one younger, one younger, one older. This is why we have aligned this scale with the union because the younger have more opportunities, more years for payments than the older ones, so it is right that the older people have higher premiums on this account, and this seemed fair to us, and not just to us, including to trade unions. In order to be able to make wage freezes in connection with the search for budgetary resources. There is no need for freezing. This has also been expressed in budgetary explanations. Even more, the escalations, as you know, are agreed for 2004 - 1.6% and 1.5% for 2005. Everything is linked to the implementation of the new pay system. With regard to certain, very specific questions, colleagues of Barovic: I do not agree with his assessment that funds in the world are being abolished. That's not gonna hold. Why not more institutions, more managers; some others have asked this question. Let me put it this way: the definition at the very beginning of the establishment of the system is for one single fund manager, but in these years at least one or more must arise, with different investment policy or level of risk. This means, too, that we plan to have more funds, but we are establishing a system for now with one alone for purely organisational and time-consuming reasons. However, there is a legal obligation to produce more in three years. And second. It is necessary to separate between the fund manager and the asset managers. There'll be more estate managers. This is also a marriage obligation. That is why we have also proposed a change in the law in this direction that fund managers, in addition to companies for the operation of pension companies and capital companies, and in particular banks and insurance companies, can ensure a higher quality of investment and thus bring a relatively higher yield. I'm sorry I'm running out of time. The supervision of state and union funds is ensured through a 12 - member committee of founders. When and how employees will benefit from the funds, the law provides. Costs; costs depend, of course, on the effectiveness of negotiations with the founder or fund manager to be selected at the tender or through the collection of tenders [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , should not exceed 1%, so it is a completely incorrect estimate that the saver should only get 10% to 20%. [[...]] The time period asked by Comrade Podobnik - we consider it a permanent system to be established without a specific time limit. As far as RTV and anyone who would like to be reintegrated into this system is concerned, of course, the condition is to be included in the collective agreement system for the public sector; otherwise, all trade unions, which are signatories to the collective agreement on non-economics, have been declared to be universally valid since 1991, so that there is no evidence that the number of trade unions is lacking, is not. With the system, we are not confusing, we are re-setting the system in a way that corresponds to the specifics of the public sector. Since I have to finish, all I would say is that we will examine all the suggestions very carefully, especially what my colleague Kebrich has set up, and that we will be able to take account of a lot of things in the course of the harmonisation or improvement of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you. Two minutes and there's something left. Who wants more? Mag. A trifle, Lavrinc and Kebrich. Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we will strongly oppose this law because it is actually a new model of pension reform with other means. This is essentially a technical law, and the foundations have been imposed by the government in a way that has forced the work of the social partners - one part of the partners - into a solution that we must force to harmonise. The consequences of this will be clear, of course, reduced payments to the health fund, reduced income, reduced pension benefits, as has been the case for the last three years - means another financial blow to the pensioner's pocket. The limits are inconsistent with the parent law on pension and disability insurance, which may constitute an important reason for the constitutional dispute. Poverty will increase in this way, and this is also an attack on weaker layers. But I'd like to replicate to Mr. Sponik. This is a poor foundation, a poor starting ground for moving forward, because the basis for calculating the pension base is collapsing. These bases are collapsing, and this will obviously be generalized on these other systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you. Comrade Lavrinz. Thank you. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Very briefly. Mr. Secretary, you're deceiving the public again. If it was not intended, the result is known that all those deprived will be deprived because there is little time for me not to mention them, the social supporters, the unemployed, the compensations and the pensioners. If that wasn't the point, why didn't you submit other laws to make it up to you? This is the problem that we showed you when you heard the reaction and now, if you'll excuse the expression, try to pull yourself out as you could. Whether this is the case or not - please provide other laws to compensate for this loss of all these acquisitions or to reduce and make up for the budget. And just one more word. If the case is the way you show it, why isn't it calculated, how much will these bonuses "cost"? We have in today's finances that this is budgeted for the second year and so many billions for 2005, but what about this year? You save this year by not raising wages by 2.4%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u66	This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 22.05 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I'm breaking up the agenda. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u67	We're moving on to 25. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is, first of all, a proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the nationality of other successor countries, formerly in the Republic of Slovenia, which had permanent residence in the Republic on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of eleven Members, with first-signed Anton Anderlic, requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First, I will invite the Minister of the Interior to further explain the bill and then you will get the floor from the representatives of the groups of Members. First, the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u68	Respectable. The Government, as the proposer of legislation in the field of foreigners, is firmly committed to finalising this issue in a legally correct manner, with two proposed laws. With this moment under consideration, and with the so-called law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the constitutional decision. The adoption of these two laws will eliminate individuals who have suffered from a loss of status. On the other hand, we will enforce, establish a condition for the enforcement of a constitutional decision and thereby strengthen and enforce the rule of law. The bill is selective and contains assurances that those who have acted against the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in an unlawful way and have also threatened the highest values recognised by the civilized world will not be able to enforce their status under the terms of this Act, of course if they are found guilty of crimes before the judicial authorities, including the worst crimes against humanity and international law, as well as other crimes defined by Slovenian criminal law. The main solutions to this law are to establish legal bases for obtaining status for all those who have not yet taken advantage of these options, as well as for their young children. The law also lays down the conditions and procedure for determining decisions on permanent residence for those who have obtained a permanent residence permit on the basis of relief and for those who have obtained a permit or who have subsequently acquired a nationality. In all these cases, the law provides for the effect of the decision issued in return; what is expressly provided for in the Constitutional Court decision. It is essential that we follow the Constitutional Court's decision in order to lay down criteria for determining the legitimate absence from the country. We follow the one-year rule as justified absences and lay down some exceptions to the permissible annual absence. I would like to focus your attention on the so-called negative criteria. Indeed, negative criteria set out situations where a foreigner has left the Republic of Slovenia and has not notified the competent authority thereof and such abandonment is considered to be a violation of permanent residence and a negative criterion for obtaining the right to status. These criteria are fully stated in the law, and criteria are also laid down or the criteria set out in the law on foreigners are applied. It is an expulsion of a foreigner in a way that clearly shows the permanent abandonment of Slovenia. It is a matter of emigration to another country, to a state of nationality, for the purpose of permanent association with family members. Negative criteria include those linked to the actual cessation of life in the Republic of Slovenia due to the security measure imposed, expulsion from the country if it is an individual who is in the records of a competent authority as an international offender, if he comes to the country in order to be connected with the exercise of illicit activities. However, it does not meet the condition of actual life, nor does the alien who has committed crimes expressly defined by the law. This means that there are reasons to suspect that it may pose a threat to public order and peace, to security, to the international relations of Slovenia, if there is any suspicion that its stay in the country will be linked to the conduct of violent acts and so on. In short, the law lays down a number of negative criteria that provide essentially a selective approach, which is necessary in this regard, when it follows the constitutional court's instructions in a faithful manner when the condition of permanent residence is determined. I would like to conclude this brief introduction by commenting on or explaining the financial consequences of this law. I repeat that the law itself does not produce direct financial consequences, except for those related to the issue of decisions or to organisational logistics issues. The Ministry of the Interior has so far adopted 7 claims for compensation, which courts have not yet decided on. Any speculation, speculation as to the extent to which these damages, what the state will suffer, do not yet have serious professional grounds. The adoption of this law will no longer result in compensation claims, as the legal basis for their submission is already in the Constitutional Court’s decision, and therefore the proposal for such settlement is also pointless and without appropriate professional grounds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. With this, the Minister has opened the room to present the views of the Group of Members, all of which are announced, and then many of our colleagues and colleagues. The debate will take three hours. Zupanova's colleague is the first, Comrade Celigoj right behind her. Please. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, colleague Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable. The story of the so-called deleted, the story of the people who were deleted from the register of the permanent population of Slovenia in February 1992 and entered into the list of foreigners, began on the basis of a law on foreigners adopted in the summer of 1991, which provided in its 81st Article that, pending the finalisation of the decision in the administrative procedure for admission to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, the provisions of this law do not apply to nationals of the former Yugoslav republics who, within 6 months of the application of the law on citizenship, applied for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia under the 40th Article of this Act. For SFRY nationals who are nationals of another republic who have not applied for Slovenian citizenship within the six months or who have been issued a negative decision, it has been stipulated that they will be subject to the provisions of the Aliens Act two months after the expiry of the period within which they could apply for citizenship or from the issue of a final decision. After the then applicable law, foreigners could stay in Slovenia without special permission for up to three months or for a period granted in a visa and only on the basis of permission. Foreigner may first have been granted temporary residence permit in Slovenia. After at least three years of continuous residence in Slovenia, he was granted a residence permit. It subsequently extended the deadline for obtaining a permanent residence permit from three to eight years. This period also includes the adoption of a new law on foreigners in 1999, which provides much more detail for the rules of the game as regards licences. At the same time, a new law on foreigners was adopted on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court to regulate the status of citizens of other countries as successors of the former SFRJ in Slovenia, which fell by April this year by a decision of the Constitutional Court. This law allowed foreigners who lived permanently in Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.6.2001 respectively, and who had been living continuously in Slovenia since then, to obtain a permanent residence permit in compliance with the law of certain conditions. In order to submit applications, the law laid down three months and at the same time could apply for permanent residence permits for those who applied for citizenship, and a negative decision had been issued to them under Article 40 of the Citizenship Act. Therefore, the Constitutional Court annulled the law in April this year because it did not recognise the status of permanent residence as abrogated from the date of expiry, because it did not arrange for the granting of a permanent residence permit to forcibly removed aliens and because it had set a short time limit for the lodging of applications for permanent residence permits. With new solutions it is expected to cover the status of around 4,000 people, but there are no precise data on how many of them actually live in Slovenia and how many of them want to regulate their status in Slovenia. This is a very important and sensitive political issue that the ruling coalition wants to resolve with two laws. And if we can, to some extent, support the proposal for a law that regulates the issue of decisions to revert, i.e. the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, we have so much greater concern about the proposal for a law that we are discussing and dealing with the regulation of the situation of those who have not obtained any status so far. The beneficiaries were repeatedly called upon to regulate their status in accordance with the law, but not all did. Since 1992, it has regulated 7,310 citizens of the former SFRJ, 4,210 under both foreign laws, and 3,100 under the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in Slovenia. According to the experts of the Council of Europe, our regulation regarding citizens of other Yugoslav republics with independent legislation in 1991, when all those who had permanent residence were able to acquire the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia if they decided to do so, was in line with all European standards. By October 1995, the United Nations Committee on Legal Affairs had also found compliance of Slovenian legislation with the standards of the United Nations. In its decision, the Constitutional Court drew attention to three rights in which they could have been revoked, namely the right to advance a military pension, the right to a protective allowance and the inability to replace a driver's license, which were subject to constitutional examinations. However, the Constitutional Court in its decision did not provide guidance for the resolution of the situation backwards or for the correction of possible injustices by regional laws. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, are expected to have considerable work to do to issue decisions 7310 to individuals on official duty. The work is definitely going to be huge. In fact, according to the proposal of the law, we should turn our lives around for all those potential beneficiaries and identify different life situations. In doing so, we ask ourselves whether retroactively resolving the status of so-called deleted is the right thing to do. Proveting the condition of real life for a adult alien or for a minor child is often extremely difficult, but many have also been abused. What about the assessment of the financial implications for the country? The proposaler does not want to discuss this and as a future issue. The increased volume of work in ministries, in administrative units, then additional material costs, the increased number of cases in the courts which are already suffocating behind in any way - if compensation claims are submitted, all of this will be burdened. According to experts, indemnity actions by the initiators of the constitutional judgment can also reach an amount of 600 billion, which means that in the case of lawsuits received, each Slovenian should pay 300 thousand tolars for this. In any event, the burden on taxpayers will be very, very important, because it falls or raises the question of proportionality. A disproportionate financial burden, which would in particular burden future generations, can destroy such beautiful desires and rights. And that is exactly what too little is said about, and that is why such a proposal cannot stand and stand, and as such we cannot support it in our Group of Members. We are convinced that this is a question that concerns all citizens and citizens, and that we must not rush and that a referendum as a form of direct democracy in this case could be a language that would push the scale in the right direction towards the right decision. We fear that, at an extreme stage, such decisions may also constitute an attempt to present the fundamental values of our statehood, at which our country stands, and thus the countries themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Comrade Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the Member Club DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u72	Your Honor! The problem of so-called deleted has plagued our citizens and the Slovenian state for several years. During this period, many views were given, many presentations, interviews and broadcasts were made, so that each of us could shape his or her position and, of course, views are different; from the fact that, in accordance with the constitutional decision and respect for human rights, the State must correct the wrongs that have been caused by the disappearance from the register of the population to the extremely opposed, contrary opinions that the deleted citizens themselves are guilty of their own difficulties if they have not taken care of the entry at a time when they could have done so themselves. Of course, many rights are attached to the formalized right to permanent residence, and human dignity is definitely affected by its non-recognition. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that there is no room in a democratic country for discrimination against people and for the responses that take place there and are based on intolerance. Just because you close your eyes to the problem doesn't mean you don't have a problem. It is the responsibility of the State to deal fairly with the issue raised by the Constitutional Court decision; that is, to verify the actual situation that has been present all these years. When it comes to deleted persons, the public is particularly concerned with those who, at a time when they could apply for citizenship, did not do so for such or other reasons. We forget, however, that the recognition of the right to permanent residence may, however, give someone the opportunity to acquire other rights, including the right to work which a person has not been able to exercise so far, and thus improve its social situation, which is necessary for better integration into society. With the possible adoption of a law, we would have a legal basis that eliminates the legal framework, and it is likely that the way to obtain all the entitlements that people who are subject to the status regime today will still have a long one, according to them. It is also up to us, therefore, at the legal level that we are also trying to prove that Slovenia is a legal country that cares about human rights. In the DeSUS Group, we also hope that there will be no need for a referendum on this issue, as this would very much delay the whole process of recognising the rights to permanent residence. By its judgment, the Constitutional Court warned all of us that non-constitutional provisions should be replaced by appropriate rules, conditions for obtaining a permanent residence permit for nationals of other former republics of the SFRJ. As the bill represents an attempt to resolve the imbalance between the state and the deleted, in the DeSUS Group, we consider the proposal to be appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u73	Thank you very much. My colleague Potrč will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, for them a colleague of Peca. First of all, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law. In subsequent stages of the hearing, it will be possible to supplement its content and eliminate any confusion or inconsistencies that would impede the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision. Above all, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats want the general debate on the law to reflect objectively the situation and circumstances that have led the Constitutional Court to adopt this law and the effects that the proposed content of the law has on the affected and on all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We are convinced that false and malicious estimates have led to many misunderstandings and unmeasured reactions in the public. Politicians and Members should be aware of their responsibility for public speaking. It is very irresponsible to speak half-truths and accuse others. We must not be carefree to the people who have suffered injustice, and we should not care how the Slovenian state will be known and judged in the world: as a country that respects human rights and the principles of the rule of law, or as a community that cultivates intolerance to other nations, especially to members of other nations. In 1991, we adopted a very advanced citizenship law on independence. We have foreseen special rights and conditions for about 200,000 members of other nations of the former SFRY, who are already at the plebiscite on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, that is 23. 12. 1990, live in Slovenia. At the time of the adoption of the law, we also passed a law on foreigners. We also discussed with him what will happen to citizens of other republics who will not apply for citizenship and will not move out of Slovenia, but will want to live in it as foreigners. And the government has assured us that their situation will not change, but that, in fact, the law on foreigners has been enacted, despite different predictions in practice, so that these members of other nations were deleted from their residence records after 26 February 1992 without any notice, even without administrative decisions; I stress, without any powers and without any administrative decisions. This led to a significantly different situation and made it difficult or impossible for them to exercise certain rights that they had enjoyed so far. They were not informed on the basis of the notifications, were not called upon to notify themselves publicly and to regulate their status; on the contrary, if they came to administrative units to regulate other situations, they were informed of such a situation and, on many occasions, their personal documents were destroyed. Therefore, they are not guilty of the loss of a type of rights and are not responsible for themselves. They expected that, like other foreigners without special procedures, they would retain their previous rights, the rights of foreigners. And since this has not happened, many have begun complex procedures before the administrative and judicial authorities in order to restore to them the status and rights which have been unilaterally, without the possibility of appeal, without any administrative proceedings. For some years their efforts have been very difficult, and few have succeeded. This was true of many tragic fates of people and families, to whom human rights keepers have also been alerted in their reports. When, finally, after five years of treatment, in 1999 alone, the illegality of such conduct was established by the Constitutional Court, a new conviction began, rather than immediately correcting the injustices, whether it was necessary to establish an illegal status on the date of deletion or on a later date. Again, neither the government nor the majority in the National Assembly themselves understood the Constitutional Court’s decision by correcting the wrong that had been done on the day that it had been caused, but not on a later date, until the Constitutional Court of 16 April 2003 had unequivocally stated that the wrong had to be corrected on the date of its deletion. The issue of deleted is now also internationalised. Both the European Commission against racism and intolerance and the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe are aware of this issue. The first in its report calls on the State authorities to pursue what is a generous approach to countering the strong sense of injustice experienced by people whose name has been erased from the Register of Permanent Residents. The other recommends to the Slovenian authorities that the situation of persons deleted from the residence record be settled without delay in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thus, this is the situation in the adoption of the law. That's the story that's been erased. I apologize for this explanation, but an objective picture of the situation is essential. Only on the basis of this picture can it be found that no one gives anything to anyone. That no new substantive right is established, that rights are not granted either again or without verification of the facts, that the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision is a matter of responsibility of the State authorities and the rule of law and that the promotion of intolerance and hatred is no longer acceptable anywhere in modern Europe, as it can be based only on the individual interests of the parties, which cannot be the content of a democratic rule of law. The United List of Social Democrats was at all stages of this process on the part of the rule of law and respect for human rights. As early as 1991, she voted in favour of amendments that would allow for an equal position, including a decision explaining how rights should be exercised. Even in 1999, when the law was adopted, she suggested that the status should also be regulated from the date of the expiry. Also in November last year, she suggested that the National Assembly should consider whether the request to the Constitutional Court for final decision or to assess how it would settle matters in the belief that the injustices that had been committed needed to be rectified. And this seems to us to be the most important and far more important than possible mutual political accounts, the search for culprits or the identification of responsibility. It's human and moral to help people first. Whoever does not understand this does not, in our view, understand the mission and responsibility of our public action. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we call for tolerance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. We expect and want the resolution of this issue to consolidate the Republic of Slovenia as a democratic community and contribute to the tolerance and co-existence of all its inhabitants, and especially to consolidate the high moral, legal and democratic essence of our independence, to which we are all deeply and sincerely committed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u75	My colleague, Sasha Peca, now has the floor. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Petan on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u76	Your Honors are here! At this point, I wonder if I should address you, Your Honor. The advocacy of Slovenia has clearly become a feature of some parliamentary groups and will obviously continue in the form of an awakening of intolerance. In this national assembly, it has been said that those who advocate that we should not have 300,000 people living below the poverty threshold in Slovenia are intolerance. In this national assembly for this speaker, the representative has just said that if we raise concerns about 40,000 new unemployed people who will take place at the moment of entry into the EU due to the non-competitiveness of the unemployed Slovenians and Slovenes, this raises intolerance. And that only those who defend the rights of those who have betrayed this country during the period of independence, if they defend their rights, then they are not impatient. That only he understands his mission, the mission of the state, the mission of function. We are confident in the Slovenian National Party and no one will convince us otherwise that he understands his mission when we talk about Members, who will try to give the Slovenian people the best possible quality of life, to establish those standards that will enable him to live as a Slovenian nation deserves. A few moments ago, you received an explanation of the events, as they were happening, according to our assessment of course half-truth, misleading, with a narrow political interest. On the other hand, we need to know that a very simple law on citizenship has already been made clear in the period when they were performing so-called or self-named deleted: Slovenian citizenship can be obtained by anyone, only has to apply for it and fulfil the condition itself that such a person on the day of plebiscite, on 23 December 1990, resides permanently in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. 5,000 people took advantage of this opportunity. Because of the speculative nature of others, or because they did not take advantage of this possibility, did all Slovenians today suffer?Oh, my God! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia simply says: "We do not know about the financial consequences, we do not care. We do not know what legal practice will be, we only know that we will have to hire a few judges again, because this will be such a mass-judicial intervention." And deal with it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recognises seven applications in court. However, he does not want to think of where Slovenia, with such a deficit as we have, with this number of unemployed, with rising inflation, will acquire these financial resources. But, of course, finances are not the most important. The most important thing you do right now, colleagues and colleagues, is that you are changing Slovenian independence, that you evaluate all the foundations on which Slovenia has decided for a single country, and that you are not prepared to listen and help to stay those Slovenian citizens and citizens who need this assistance in the form of employment, in the form of smaller inflation - no, for those you do not care about. But suddenly, on the basis of the so-called constitutional decision, at the request of Mr Krivica to resolve it immediately, this is your number one priority in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, let me warn you. I think that the legislative and legal service in the framework of the National Assembly has given us a total of 10.7.2003 a review of the laws that have to be brought into line with the Constitution on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. There are 16 laws that should have long been aligned with or attributed to legislation. But nobody cares if it's 16 laws because you're making a selection. Among them are laws that reflect quality living, but we can follow the age, the youngest, the middle generation or the older generation. No, because it's a Slovenian nation. In the decision of this year, which dictates a change of legislation, an repeal of the act of independence and financial consequences, you are suddenly in the Slovenian government and in that part - in the Slovenian parliamentary party you support, of course, the government - immediately for this to be done. It has been heard that Europe invites us to be generous and, of course, the naive Slovenians will be calling on Europe to be generous, to accept the Slovenians, because they may prefer us in Europe even more, even though we forget that the author of the law continues to state in other European countries that there is no such practice in Europe. But of course, what's easier than some institution within the European Union to say, "Slovakia, be generous!" And they are not interested in where Slovenia should be generous and what this will mean for Slovenia. The assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law according to our assessment stem from the wrong assumption, assuming that we must resolve the issue of injustice in Slovenia. The guilt was done - to whom? According to the National Party, the injustice was committed to the country of Slovenia when it was attacked, and the injustice was not done to those who left the country for these or other reasons. If we are to talk about injustice, then it would be appropriate to remember at these times all those who would like to fulfill their desire for work. But because this very government of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow us to use this right to work, because we are not able to provide them with jobs, but we are able to provide status, and the corrections behind those, I reiterate that because of speculative nature, we have avoided the comfort of young Slovenia. It has been said: we will strengthen the rule of law - in addition to the fact that Europe calls for generosity. The rule of law would be strengthened if, on the one hand, we took all the decisions of the Constitutional Court into account, but just before we found that you had only complied with one sixteenth of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The rule of law would be strengthened if the Slovenian judiciary were okay, we all know that it is not that a rare institution in this country can wave the legal term for greeting. I'm sorry, but that doesn't bother anyone anymore. You're disturbed by just so-called deleted. Thus, we cannot agree with the proposal for a law that is already based on provisions or on the content that someone has suffered injustice. The guilt suffered more Slovenian people! And until this is clarified or clarified, you will receive such laws for so long, with such financial consequences, which are in such numbers that you do not even hope to write them down, but I have already said - the financial consequences are not even the most important; the most important thing is that you are ashamed of your own history, that you are ashamed of the period in which we were all so proud not long ago, and today, under the wishes of a guilty person, we are legitimizing such things. At the request of the person who participated in the drafting of such legislation, which was paid for this work and later, a few years later, through the Constitutional Court, he challenges his related work and we follow him. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the Constitutional Court has exceeded its powers by imposing precisely the content on the executive branch and the legislative branches of authority. According to our assessment, the Constitutional Court has also mixed the basic substance of the division of power into a judicial, executive and legislative branch of power. When we later tried to refer to the Constitutional Court in the Slovenian National Party, we received an answer that we did not show any legal interest and that the legal interest in the issue of the deleted is shown only by the so-called deleted or deleted. No one else. We are convinced that - as far as the content of the law itself, which we initially thought was not worth commenting on, and our disagreement with such an idea and the law should be presented only by voting 'against' - but I would still like to touch a few articles. In the field of real life criteria in the Republic of Slovenia, the proposer or the author of the law states that despite various reasons for the absence of a foreigner from the Republic of Slovenia, he is considered to have lived in our country, despite various reasons. Article 3 states: "Tjuc can obtain a permanent residence permit if he asks and proves that he actually lives in the Republic of Slovenia." So, on the one hand, we have real proof of life in the Republic of Slovenia, and on the other hand, the government, of course, is as generous as it is, probably at the wish of the deleted and – a little earlier – we have found - the European Union notes that there can be various reasons for not having to be disturbed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is generous as follows Article 4, and says that staying does not have to be here for a year, as long as it meets certain criteria; and these criteria take from A to Z - so all possible options. We do not even know the freely written law in the Slovenian National Party. Why didn't you just write or -- perhaps even better -- you didn't say, because we don't need the marriage in any way, but let them get what they think was wronged, just back. Why engage, in your opinion, even in marriage, if you allow them everything in marriage? Article 5 is quite interesting - refusing to issue a permit that says that permission is denied to the one on whom the sword of genocide, war crime or crime against humanity hangs. And learning that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is even proposing a legal norm in which it will be written: for so many years and so many years he was not allowed to sit in prison. However, we all know what judicial proceedings are like, the jurisprudence in the countries of the former Yugoslavia In Slovenia we will attract or attract many criminals, and, of course, perhaps some other treat, we will reward them financially. You do not hope to talk about the amount of the financial prize because it is too high, and I personally believe that none of the Slovenian citizens would look at you if they knew or knew what the case will be. And only the naive can believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in such an important case, did not ask in advance about possible judicial practice, but to say: we do not know it. Article 7 - competent authority and time limit for lodging an application. Since the story has been repeated since the United List and Mr Krivic have been inspired under, of course, a great man's pretense with a good heart, but all the rest of us do not know what, the term appears that this is "necessaryly necessary to be arranged". On the other hand, the proposed law itself states, "the alien may apply for a permanent residence permit within 5 years of the entry into force of the law". Five years! Is it really that urgent? I'd believe the urgency if it said "in 30 days." Then we'd also show a so-called deleted emergency. But for five years, you've been giving them the opportunity to exercise their gifted rights. Chapter three, procedural rules. "The fulfilment of the conditions of real life for a full-year alien in the Republic of Slovenia can be demonstrated primarily by the following evidence." One of them is about treatment in the Republic of Slovenia. So someone will get the rights from this title because they will prove that they are being treated in the Republic of Slovenia. Yes, please, where are we going?Oh, my God! What does this certificate include? That someone was in the spas and that's why they're getting status! Furthermore, "on participation in proceedings before administrative and other state authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and local community bodies." So if the Slovenian court heard one of these, it will already allow him to stay here as evidence. Further, "on professional training." You probably don't realize it, but education is at home and abroad. And as we know them in Slovenia, they know these educations and exchanges of different personnel in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. And of course, so that the flowers don't stop at 9th Article, there's an 11th Article here, "hearing a stranger." "When the submitted and implementing evidence does not demonstrate with certainty that the alien actually lives in the Republic of Slovenia," and then it begins, "it is the competent authority that is obliged before the decision to grant a permanent residence permit to question the alien." We impose even administrative officials on what they owe if those who propose the applications do not give a full role! What happens if a Slovenian fails to play a full role in a particular dispute? As in this case, will the entire state apparatus with these specially hired judges come to his aid? No! No! Not according to our estimate. According to our assessment, if we tried to make a normal law, it would say: "When the evidence presented does not show with certainty that a foreigner actually lives in the Republic of Slovenia, the process is terminated." It's over. Have them look for documents, executive evidence to prove they were here. According to our assessment, the law is politically-written. The law is written that I will not repeat myself because it is obvious that today the structure that wants to change the self-sustaining values is in power. The law is written so that we can boast before Europe about how human society we are. As Slovenia is prepared, let it be financially and bisanously helpful to anyone who shows the least interest in this desire. But most of you politicians forget that we have many unresolved issues in our country. I personally believe, and I am convinced that it should be the task of all Members and Members of the Government to allow for a better stay in the initial phase of Slovenia and Slovenia. In order for us to at least ever engage in this meeting in laws that have a positive solution - not because the European Union is asking us to harmonise it, but because we would like to ask ourselves how we can help our people through this law. This approach - I have been in this National Assembly for four years - did not have this approach once when it came from the government. Several times the law began with this standard when it came from the proposer of the Slovenian National Party. But, of course, all those laws that protect people or businesses in Slovenia, for you, a large majority, great policy in them were not acceptable. In the National Party, of course, we will oppose the bill and hope that enough Members will have the desire to continue with history as it was, even in the future, and that they will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you very much, buddy. Mr Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Malovre. But first, Comrade Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respected! This law, which is before us, is certainly one of the specifics, and it is even more certain that it is unique because it solves things backwards, it is called retroactive. What if I start with procedural matters, procedural problems first? At the end of this proposal, the applicant wrote under other consequences, quote: "The law of other consequences as an increase in the work of the competent authorities and the possible increase in the work of the courts of general jurisdiction in the case of the lodging of compensation claims, which, given the number of possible actions, cannot be foreseen, will not have." Of course, that's not true, and then the text wouldn't be like that. In addition, we might ask ourselves, What does compensation involve? If we look at it pessimistically, or optimistically, or if we're realistic about it, or if we're humble, it doesn't matter. We will talk about hundreds of billions of Slovenian tolars. I already mentioned about 600 billion Slovenian tolars for this payphone myself. Dearest, this is a million per family, that is 300,000 Slovenian tolls per citizen from the youngest baby to the oldest pensioner. And we can ask ourselves if our family is strong enough to do that. Are families in Slovenia even so strong that they can do this? Does everyone have any employees to draw on money so that they can pay for something that they didn't do at all? That the lawsuits will be, it has become clear lately, even though the actors say that it is not possible or that it is not necessary for the actions to take place. A while ago, and not so far back, last week, we were able to read from some "official" messenger who wrote that the Constitutional Court with this decision allowed these people to assert lost rights back and thus get the opportunity to at least partially sue for damages. Yeah, well, it's a shame - but who's done anybody any harm, we can ask ourselves. The next procedural issue is that, under Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this law does not even have a business opportunity to be further examined because it did not foresee financial consequences. What is written at the end, that they cannot be predicted, but that only official matters will be those with financial consequences, this is not serious. This law is built by the system, we jump into the water, and we will see how deep it is, we will see how deep these billions are, how deep we will have to jump by billions. This, of course, does not show - or indicates - the seriousness of the job of the proposer. The next item, which was also defined by the proposer, is the presentation of regulation in EU countries, and it reads: "The substance of the proposal is not the content of European Union law." So this is our internal matter, the solutions are our unique and political majority. So the EU's excuse, whatever it is, does not hold up. It is quite clear that Europe does not even know retroactive – no, it does not know! However, since the actions will not be taken into account by the budget, the question arises whether the applicant has failed to take account of the budgetary resources for these purposes, taking into account our case law and the backlogs that we have with us, that is to say, even in 2005 cases would not be resolved. In addition, the question is raised here, and we will all see whether we will all be equal before the law and whether in the cases of these actions, the judicial backlogs will be the ones that apply to Slovenian citizens. We'll see. However, this is unrealistic budget planning, it is unrealistic, irresponsible, unprofessional and, if you want a little morale, it is unfair and mocks citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the country itself. What we are particularly concerned about in the SDS is the preparation of the public through the settlement media for half the amount. This is what we have heard - that those who run these matters talk about settlement for half the amount. What's half the amount? The next issue, which should also be seriously considered, is that even before the law is in force, the Slovenian State is being traded and enforced for half the amount. Which one is that? Because I said 600 billion is a real number, that means we're trading 300 billion. Even if we're trading for 200 or 100. That means a few hundred grand to each family. And I want to know -- some of these numbers make people laugh and wave -- if they do when they do, when we're probably gonna have to talk about these numbers here, if anyone else is going to laugh, if someone else swings their hand. I wonder if we're going to talk about impatience then, if it's funny when those families who don't even have a basic livelihood and live off the country are going to have to take the few hundred grand away from them or you're going to have to take them. I wonder if anyone else will laugh. Next what's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u79	Please, please, please, please, please, I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please, please, you have the floor, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you, President. Thus, we do not yet have these people to have citizenship, but they are already blackmailing the country and threatening to sue. However, the defendants were supposed to have made fun of those who had made fun of the Slovenian state ten years ago, and now they wanted to become millionaires. Allow me a small comparison. The Act on Compensation for Victims of War Violence on page 3 states: "The total amount that such beneficiary may receive is not more than 2 million". Now, whose categories are these: for campers, stolen children and political prisoners of 35,000 SIT per month, for exile of 25,000 per month I will not list further, just to tell you what I want to say. [[...]] In our client, we are disturbed by inequality before the law. Victims of war violence, Slovenian citizens, I have listed them, which, campers, children stolen, political prisoners, labour deportees receive fines under the law, but they have no opportunity to appeal anymore. But they're only guilty because they were Slovenians. The so-called deleted would receive millions, the state should pay billions, that is about half of the Slovenian budget, 1 million per family. Now their representatives claim to be generous and ready for half the amount. Nice. Finally, it is also about people, not everyone, but also about people who made fun of Slovenia, who were spitting on Slovenia. Some. The point is, some people don't want us to generalize that I don't want anyone to read it to me. Some were shooting at Slovenia, shooting at Slovenians, but they didn't want citizenship, so they don't have it. And we could get him. Again, I'm not talking about everyone. Because I'm sure he'd do something wrong. We are in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the elimination of injustices. We know that among these people there are those who have been wronged. But then we solve those cases of each individual. We cannot define guilt in general, but we cannot also look for justice in general, but for each individual. We have legislation that allows us to do so, but of course we must respect it and have political will. We are patient in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but at the same time we are realistic. We respect everything, including our citizens, and we treat them equally. But the way in which these people are now blackmailing 2 million Slovenians and the Slovenian state through a former constitutional judge is a little too harsh of a joke from the Slovenes. And that's not an acceptable way. Your Honor! If we respect the decision of the Constitutional Court, we must respect all decisions of the Constitutional Court equally and treat them equally, not just those that suit us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Comrade Petan. Please, there's no debate from the bench! Mr Malovra will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. After him, colleague Štemberger and the presentation of the positions will be concluded by colleague Krebsova. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u82	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In this marriage many of us are likely to be drawn here by mixed feelings. As a young soldier in 1968, I swore in Sombor about this: "I swear that I will preserve the fluids of our country's brotherhood and unity of our people". Many here we danced a bike and sang "Friend Tito we swear to you". And it came on 23.12. 1990, after 1991, 1992. No one in Yugoslavia at the time believed that we would go our separate ways and succeed, but at least the Yugoslav People's Army, and not these 20, 25, 30 thousand former immigrants, as we said at the time. The vast majority of them were regarded as Yugoslavs, and this is also a tragedy that has been erased. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we were surprised and concerned to adopt a decision by the Constitutional Court on the law governing the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in particular as regards the decision in paragraph 8 of the said Constitutional Decision adopted in April this year. It is necessary to take account of the fact that point 8 of the decision is about legal innovation. Our Constitution stipulates that the legal consequences of the decisions of the Constitutional Court are governed by law and also dictates the principle of legality under the General Administrative Procedure Act. We therefore support the implementation of the two laws, the specific law for the implementation of this 8th point and the general law for all other cases. As soon as the constitutional decision was adopted in the SLS Group at that time, we decided to support the implementation of the constitutional decision, but only with the relevant law. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is always necessary to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and that the legislator must prescribe a means of implementation. We would expect to take equal account of certain deadlines for the harmonisation of laws with those of the Constitutional Court, in particular those relating to the general public or to the rights and problems of Slovenian citizens, such as the Constitutional Decision on the Income Act, on the facilitation and maintenance of children, or on the constitutionality of the Koper municipality and so on. We also expect that, with regard to the implementation of the other points of the Constitutional Decision, the law before us will truly take account of all the actual situations and situations in which the citizens of other countries are the successors of the former SFRJ, as laid down in the Constitutional Decision. At the same time, it leaves it to the legislator to define the criteria and conditions under which the State will allow or grant a permanent residence permit. Our country has already defined, by means of acts of independence and later by means of a special law on the regulation of status, the less favourable conditions for regulating the status of citizens of other countries, heirs to the Socialist, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the draft law follows a constitutional decision or even exceeds it in regulating the status of those who have already acquired citizenship and in the provisions relating to family members or beneficiaries who have died. We must take into account the unequivocal facts in the drafting and adoption of the law, which confirm that many who do not have a regulated status do not wish to do so or intend to do so for various reasons, including on grounds of opposition to the independence and establishment of our country. In our view, such aliens should not be granted status or even facilitated by the conditions for their acquisition. Whoever at the time felt belonging and solidarity with Slovenian citizens was able to arrange the documents under the then legislation, so they do not hold back the claim that the deadlines were too short or that the conditions were too harsh. At the time of creation, the country was obliged and entitled to verify who will become a citizen and who is or will be able to reside as a foreigner on the ground of Slovenia. This is also evidenced by the fact that the competent authorities sent approximately 7 thousand invitations to those who did not regulate their status, of which some 2 000 were actually served, while the others returned with a note "moved" or "unknown".In 2000, between 500 and 700 people responded to the invitation of the administrative authority, either in accordance with the provisions of the Aliens Act or the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. The State must not simply re-assign the status because it turns out that some people did not actually stay here, but they could have acquired citizenship because at that time the state did not require or verify the conditions of actual residence. Unfortunately, however, the law before us does not cover all the actual situations and situations in which they have been, or have been, applicants or beneficiaries of a residence permit. The government has tabled in the procedure a partially amended proposal for a law from one that has been harmonised in the prescribed coalition procedure. In Article 5 of the Harmonised Law, he had among the reasons for refusing a residence permit, quote: "After 25.6.1991 he was convicted of a crime under Chapters 15 and 16 of the SFRJ Criminal Law, Official Journal of the SFRJ No. 44/76, 34/84, 74/87, 57/89, 3/90, 39/90, against the Republic of Slovenia or other values protected by criminal law in accordance with the provisions of Article 4(1) of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia... The law which has been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure does not contain the last part of the provision that protects and foresees: "or other values which are protected by the criminal law of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 4 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia..." the end of the quote. We're surprised how that's possible. Why and to what? Firstly, the government and the competent ministry are in breach of the coalition treaty in this way. Secondly, such an act aligns the values acquired by the independence and victims of the war on Slovenia. Thirdly, the provision referred to an act for which a foreigner was convicted, so such a State cannot be trusted. Fourthly, in the Aliens Act, there is a reason for denying suspicion, so it is not a more acute but a more lenient provision, as provided for in the Constitutional Decision. So it's just a proven and not just a suspicious act. We therefore believe that the law should also contain such a provision. The drafting of the bill should also take into account the fact that substantive rights cannot be allocated back only by issuing a decision to stay back, but must be justified by an individual in an individual procedure. We are aware that there are various reasons for them. We can conclude that many are also concerned with speculative, in particular financial interests towards our country. Above all, we call for the creation of a law to implement the constitutional decision to examine the consequences of this decision and respect the legal order in our country, to strengthen the confidence of citizens and citizens of Slovenia in the rule of law and to implement the provisions of the Constitution that we are all equal before the law and thus preserve the values that we have acquired from the establishment of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u83	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Mr Štemberger will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia and colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will conclude a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Respectable National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! The bill that we are discussing today has not only a long and complicated title, but also the content of the law has this property, it is complicated and this problem has been lingering for a long time, in fact too long or should not have come to it at all. But what happened was what it was, it's here. In 1999, the Constitutional Court found that the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia did not comply with the Slovenian Constitution. This mismatch, which obviously has roots seven more years ago, is being eliminated today. Thus, in the view of the Young Slovenia Party, there is no other way than to take into account the instructions of the Constitutional Court. But it is hard to think and not wonder how such a situation could have occurred. Therefore, the transfer of the inhabitants of Slovenia from one record to another record, this today untastyly named deletion. In the Party of Young Slovenia we are already honestly tired of regulating things for back and correcting foreign mistakes from some fairly distant period. I'd like to point out here what I understand as a mistake. It was the wrong conduct of those who wrote and adopted regulations at that time. At the same time, the conduct of those who did not care about their status was also questionable, at least I can say. The fact is that we are talking about a period that was not easy for the young country of Slovenia. Recent Slovenian legislators may have relied too much on the cooperation and cooperation of part of the population. Unfortunately, some of these have opted for calculus and not citizenship. So the fault of the plot is on both sides. Either way, even calculus defends the law as a legitimate option, and so also states the Constitutional Court - to be calculus and not to be a Slovenian citizen is a human right and therefore we must respect it, at least as the Constitutional Court tells us, whether we like it or not, or whether we find it so controversial. Somewhere there is a basic limit to what human rights cannot and must not be disputed. Inside these borders there is no room for different political options or differing opinions. The matter now governed by this most recent bill, although it has been repeatedly addressed, has been placed by the Constitutional Court within this limit and it is our duty to take this into account. This means that we must adopt this law in the proposed content. There will be a lot more talk on the details of the legal provisions in the future, which I hope will happen. Even now, we can see that the bill follows the basic objective: that is, it sets out the beneficiaries of a permanent residence permit for foreigners even in return, lays down the criteria for proving the actual life in the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, allows individual treatment of individuals. The latter seems particularly important to us. Important or even too important is the issue of the financial consequences of the law. In addition to the means necessary for the technical implementation of the law, the applicant shall provide for the possibility of financial consequences in the event of compensation, noting that it is impossible to assess their scope. The issue of compensation is also becoming increasingly disturbing to the Slovenian public. Although this is not the content of the law that we are considering today, this law will allow for a claim for compensation. This topic is indeed worth paying great attention to in the future. The amount of compensation has already become an all-inclusive topic, both in the media, the public and in the National Assembly. On the part of the persons who are beneficiaries of the law, we have even heard some kind of settlement offer. We find this offer very premature and questionable. In order to obtain compensation, it is necessary to establish the injury and assess it in money. One gets the impression that some of the deleted citizenship status will only be regulated so that they can claim compensation. When regulating the status of so-called deleted persons, we must not forget one more thing. About 150 000 Slovenian citizens today settled Slovenian status in the early 1990s without problems. These can be viewed peacefully as loyal Slovenian citizens who respect the Slovenian state and its legislation. About 20,000 deleted today couldn't or didn't want to fix it. Among these, even among their flag holders, we would certainly find a lot of speculators whose young state of Slovenia was not at heart. They didn't find the status of Slovenian interesting enough. Today, when the status of Slovenian becomes European at the same time, it is much more attractive. Not to mention the greasy compensation they're promising. That is why a selective and restrictive approach to the law is not only desirable but necessary. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support further consideration of the law only because we want to live in the rule of law. Respect for the laws and decisions of the Constitutional Court is a fundamental principle of the rule of law. Some of those we deal with today, in the past, unfortunately, have not respected this. Even the opposite. The legislation of the Slovenian state has simply been scolded.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you very much. A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the position of the LDS Club and then a general debate will begin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u86	Mr President, thank you so much for your words! Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The rule of law is a positive ideal for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Therefore, we want its principles, such as the principle of the protection of human rights and freedoms, the principle of the protection of trust in the law and the principle of equality by our actions, to respect and strengthen their value. As agents of legal and political decisions, we want to co-create the Republic of Slovenia as a legal country that will be able to achieve and maintain a broad value consensus, especially in the field of understanding the foundations of justice in our society. Since non-democratic systems are characterized by the fact that politics has peacefully acquired the right to achieve its objectives, in the LDS, we are working even more closely in Slovenia to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, since it controls the constitutionality of the laws adopted, thus also reaching out to the political and legislative and enforcement authorities. Laws reflect collective decisions at a certain time and environment. Building a new country, with a new institutional and legal framework, is extremely difficult to do. The failure to adopt a certain decision at a certain time that establishes the principles of the rule of law requires sober and calm reflection from the legislator. Today's reflection when the Constitutional Court imposes on us the adoption of a law that will restore confidence in Slovenia as a legal state. The law before us must be passed. In order to find the reasons for supporting the solutions offered, we need to answer once again the fundamental question, namely, whether the citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia, who in Slovenia had a registered permanent residence prior to its independence and who have also actually lived in Slovenia and in most of it today, rightly expected that the conditions laid down in the Aliens Act of 1991, which would allow them to continue to reside in the Republic of Slovenia, would not be stricter than those laid down in Article 40 of the Citizenship Act, adopted in 1991. These conditions in the Citizenship Act were: permanent application on the day of plebiscite, real life in the Republic of Slovenia. The only restriction was those who actively cooperated against the independence of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court answers that the expectations of these people have been justified. Thus, the principle of equality is respected only if the same actual situations or the same legal positions are equally regulated in the law. Other nationals also legally resident in the territory of Slovenia and have a registered permanent residence, and the Aliens Act 1991 did not regulate their transitional legal status. This caused them to be even in a worse position than those foreigners who had the status of a foreigner prior to the independence of Slovenia. Even for such a distinction, the Constitutional Court does not find a valid reason. The only permanent residence and actual residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are those essential circumstances which give a special legal position to the persons concerned and therefore the provisions of the law on foreigners adopted at that time were inadequate. At this point, however, I would like to point out that, at the adoption of the Foreigners Act in 1991, the delegate of the liberal democracy of Slovenia, Metka Mencin, has tabled an amendment to regulate the temporary legal position of citizens of the former Yugoslavia who have not decided on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia in a way that would allow them to reside as foreigners. The actual situation of people would also be properly regulated by adopting this solution. Since the solution did not receive adequate majority support, their legal situation remained unregulated. The interstate treaties to resolve this issue have not been concluded because of the wars on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. The legal void was filled in scratch in various ways, but never in accordance with such a constitutional court, with legitimate expectations of people and in an appropriate manner justified by the Constitutional Court in the decisions that we are following in the preparation of the two laws that we are considering today: with a basic and one objective legally appropriate and definitively regulate the legal situation of the people living with us. It is the responsibility of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to oppose the adoption of both regulations. Human rights and freedoms that we must protect have no price. In our country, we will not be defending communications that in public are a source of fear that fosters modern forms of intolerance. In our country, people must not feel that they are one of those species that deserve legal certainty and others do not. The racist concerns expressed that in Slovenia there are real Slovenians and Slovenians, who are not real, do not have a place in our society if we are to become a society that is important to every citizen and citizen who resides and builds in Slovenia and co-forms it. A society which is legal, solidarity and humane to the arguments of opponents of this law cannot land, but even less should kneel before them. Since we have violated the principles of the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution by administrative regulation so far, it is up to us to regulate people who actually live in Slovenia and have a registered permanent residence before independence, the actual situation with adopted legal standards so that they do not have the sense that they are undesirable between us. Their actual situation will thus also become a duly guaranteed legal situation, arranged in such a way as to qualify as a rule of law. Only by adopting a balanced law will we contribute to strengthening and maintaining the social cohesion of people living in our country. We should also be guided by the culture of tolerance and respect for diversity in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Collegiate Irma Pavlinič Krebs presented the views of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and thus concluded by presenting the views of all parliamentary groups. The general debate is now under way. There are 22 colleagues and colleagues registered with her. We'll close it no later than 4:00 and 15 minutes, due to the government's appearance. The first word is "colleague Zupanov" and the debate is cancelled. I'm a colleague of Majda Potter's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u88	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that I intend to support the proposed text of the law. I mean, there are opportunities to solve the problem in Slovenia, which is not only a problem, but it is a injustice for too many people to ignore. When Slovenian Commissioner for Human Rights visited Slovenia in May this year, he said in an interview with Slovenian daily: "It is no problem if problems exist, but if you do not want to see problems." It seems to me that the problem we call the problem of the deleted has been realized relatively late, and the question is whether it is possible to claim that we are solving this problem faster than we are solving or solving other problems. When the Constitutional Court first drew attention to the problem, it took considerable time for it to pass its first decision. So it's not possible to talk about rush. I do not want to discuss at this moment whether the problem has arisen from personal guilt, who it was, whether it has done the science, or whether it has done it ignorantly. It doesn't even matter at this point. More interestingly, I recall the discussions that were made in the old Assembly Hall at that time in 1991 and had something to do with the current debates. At that time it was possible to hear that those who did not apply for citizenship or would not apply for citizenship were certain political options, as is now the case. But I'm saying it doesn't even matter. More importantly, before the plebiscite, with the result on the plebiscite, it seems to me that we would like to commend everyone who was then the inhabitants of this country, which we now call the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality or nationality, guaranteed that their status will not change. To say that the status has not changed for this group of people is a bit of an exaggeration. With the loss of status, legal status, they also lost fundamental human rights. Please read on page 19 of the European Commission's report on combating racism and intolerance, where this can be accurately read. The loss of fundamental human rights also means losing the right to work that has been discussed today, as well as the right to health care and more. This same report contains a special chapter. The situation of the minorities of the former Yugoslavia is particularly important here. On page 17 of this report, the ECRI Recommendation, which calls on the authorities to exercise strict control of the manifestations of intolerance and to make the state see the need to improve the climate of tolerance, says that it should take measures to raise public awareness in terms of racism and intolerance and to develop a culture of tolerance and respect for diversity in Slovenia. And that's why it's going. If I want to do something good for my country, in the eyes of my country, as well as the international public, I can do it by helping this country to be considered an area where tolerance and humanity are at home, not expelled. Let me once again draw the attention of the Commissioner for Human Rights. When he judged things in May, he predicted that he would publish the report. The English version of the report is now ahead of us and the fourth of the recommendations is also a recommendation that the State of Slovenia should immediately eliminate the injustice that has occurred to this group of people in Slovenia and enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. I think that, despite the fact that it is not possible to see in the comparative reviews of other European countries whether they have been saved or not, it is possible to answer whether they have done anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u89	Thank you, colleague mag. Spending. My colleague Peca is absent, so my colleague, Janez Janša, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your words, although it is quite difficult to discuss after as much hypocrisy as we have heard so far at this point in the agenda. I am terribly moved by the pursuit of human rights, especially when it comes to political interest, and I find it difficult to hide my tears. In another Chamber, but in the same place, discussions took place in 1990 and 1991 on whether Slovenia should be independent or not, how it should be taken and what measures must be taken in this respect. And we took these measures, especially when the decision was voted on the plebiscite, too. Unfortunately, we did not take these measures unanimously. With one or two votes cast by the majority, the majority of Demos in the then assembly voted in a very difficult manner, in order to ensure that the Slovenian state exists today. One of the worst critics of these measures was the then delegate to the Joint Labour Assembly, Colonel JLA Aksentijevic. Along with Colonel Aksentijevic, the majority of the Members of the United List and the Liberal Democracy voted against the Defence Act, the Military Duty Act, the Defence Budget and many other measures that virtually conquered Slovenia. They were very close political allies, and today it is interesting to read magnetograms from the time they support each other. This Colonel Aksentijevic was, under that old legislation, a delegate to the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 1990/1991, just before the war in 1991, he left or was appointed Commander of the Military Territorial Authority, who, if he had won the attack on Slovenia, would have taken over part of the civil authorities in the country instead of the legitimately elected organs of Slovenia. Unfortunately, some have not won and Mr Aksentijevic has left Slovenia without checking out the permanent residence. He probably thought he was going back to Slovenia, back to the tank or something, just to get back to the old days. He went to Croatia, he participated in a genocide, he progressed, he was trapped and then replaced. The world's public remembers him after the militaristic statements he made. He insisted in the formation of the Yugoslav army until this army collapsed sadly. Then we did not hear from him for some time until in the mid-1990s, the then Member of the United List of Cyril Ribicič publicly intervened for him when the authorities of the Slovenian Ministry of Interior extended his temporary stay in Slovenia. Then again, at least some, we saw him in an English television show where he presented himself as erased and explained to him how the country that attacked him, from which he left completely voluntarily, probably thinking that he would return with the army, is doing him a great injustice because the Munes admitted citizenship. You couldn't watch these shows in Slovenia, but the so-called deleted ones like to show around. Mr Aksentijevic's fate met again with the decisions of his 90/91 political allies when Mr Ribičič decided on this case in the Constitutional Court. We have received a decision that is retroactive, which requires certain things to be set back and which should now be implemented by the authorities or institutions of the Slovenian State. In some parts, the decision does not leave much room for manoeuvre; in other parts, it allows much more room for manoeuvre than in this law submitted by the Government. I must say that I am pleased to welcome the change in the position of at least two parties or three parties who are today in the government, who today are vehemently advocating the need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I particularly welcome the fact that in my ears the words of the leader of the parliamentary group of the largest government party who has been vehemently declaring to the speaker in this room that, of course, the Member can always vote in his conscience that there is no god over him who could order him how to vote. We have heard from the same people how the Constitutional Court is abusing the Constitution and that, as a result of this particular decision, a majority decision in the electoral system has not to be respected. I warmly welcome this change of attitude, and I hope that it will last longer than just for the time of consideration of this law. Of course, I would strongly recommend to those who have, or have, scissors and linen in the hands of the Government and this National Assembly when it comes to the other 16 laws that are not in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Even when it comes to amending the income law, which is supposed to introduce allowances for children, I would like the same enthusiasm. However, you have not yet entered any signatures for an extraordinary meeting such as you are for a related marriage, and no other activities are visible. This claim alone to correct these actual or alleged injustices does not convince me that it is a principled position. It's a political decision, a political position. In a specific case where there are completely unjustified cases, we could also say that this decision is "political". It is not about the principles and the correction of the injustices, sorry, it sounds very hollow to take action to remedy the injustices in a country where the authorities still allow the waste to be carried to graves where the right to grave is not yet recognised, because the minister responsible is silently going through, I will say, the most drastic violations of basic civilisation principles. This vehemen, this media preparation, this impatient expression of impatience or imputation of intolerance to others when it comes to concerns on this issue, has a deep political basis. On the one hand, it is the political and ideological alliance of friends or co-thinkers from the time of Slovenian independence, or better said, from a period of opposition to Slovenian independence. Many people know a lot about many people back then, so this alliance insists. It is very interesting to read some books about these times written by prominent foreign authors, and I hope that we will learn much more about this. And of course, as the colleague who debated before me rightly stated, it is a potential number of voters who bring a new, additional mandate to those who advocate such solutions. It is very easy to calculate this, so do not interfere with human rights. As far as compensation is concerned. The government writes in explanation of the bill's proposal that it has no direct effect on the law, unless these costs will be incurred by the administration, that indirect costs cannot be calculated because it is not known how many those who are to be retroactively recognised as being in return will file compensation actions or claim compensation. Just because you don't know doesn't mean there won't be any consequences. Especially since we have those you're looking for who's already "slipping" around these damages. They say they're willing to give up half the potential compensation. We watch these comic shows on TV and stick to our pockets. It is therefore very unrealistic to propose such a law and not at least calculate the maximum possible burden for the budget and taxpayers and one most likely. In this part, the proposal for a law is flawed. It's not possible. If you know the number, it's about possible. It is even more pointless to deny the fact that this can happen if the law is enforced. Especially since those who count on these compensations are already running numbers, they're threatening to sue. If we try to draw a line under this law, then we can say that if the proposed one is adopted, then anything is possible in this country. Someone else can remember and retroactively redefine any rights. On the basis of the same principles that apply here, one can come, either during the German or Italian occupation here for a few months, and it has had a permanent residence and requires compensation for the entire time it had to move out when it lost the war, like the ones we are talking about here. Their injustices are even longer, so to speak, so that they can claim compensation for an extended period of time. The law needs to be substantially repaired. Such as it is, it is not a suitable basis for further consideration. Things, as they are tackled, are significantly less restrictive than the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. My friend Kangler is not in the hall, nor is his colleague Anderlich. Would you like a word, Comrade Master Petty Officer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Part of this crowd, these people who are now exercising certain rights or trying to be dealt with by this law, has at some certain historical moment decided not to live here, at least not formally, so that it will not work in the Republic of Slovenia, because it was underestimating and unacceptable for them. If we remember the events of that time, we can see the arrogance of the great crowd of these people. However, they certainly wanted to maintain this silent status as a doppelganger, because they acted recalculated, as a fellow Member of the Youth Party said. At the time, the state acted, I don't think it's the most professional and not the same as the country. However, the new law or changes we are making must be such as to prevent speculation. We cannot agree that the State should support and promote the recalculation that is detrimental to the basic postulates of the State, i.e. to the detriment of society's fairness. Some have never retained or maintained the status of loyalty to the State, but have tried to remain on record for personal gain. What are the consequences? What Minister Bohinc says is not true. Therefore, the law does not meet the conditions because it does not specify the financial consequences. The financial implications will be as follows, Minister. Payment of military pensions - you can predict, according to which persons belong to this list; you will then be able to determine. And given that military beneficiaries or beneficiaries of military pensions on average have on average twice as much pension as other citizens and that beneficiaries of military pensions that have not joined the Slovenian military have significantly lower pensions, then it can be anticipated what the consequences will be. These consequences, however, are mainly due to the unreasonable conduct of one block in the sense of enacting laws that have severe financial consequences. One of these is the rights of veteran relations. They will also gain rights on that basis. This is not an injury, this is not a damage requirement, these rights will simply be exercised. In Slovenia it is just that it has become a very interesting destination for officers from Croatia and Serbia, for other people who are trying to resolve the socio-economic situation in Slovenia at the expense of the unreasonable behaviour of Slovenians. In Bosnia, Croatia and Serbia, these rights are not granted or granted proportionately, where possible. Slovenia is becoming a destination. However, there is no obligation for Slovenia to save the social situation of the people of the world. The payment of a protective allowance is also such a thing as to be encountered on the basis of such a wrong arrangement. This is a social supplement that goes to the people who live here. Even though they have not lived, this can also be expressed, they will be formally enforced. If you write it the way you do now, it's up to them. However, the biggest problem can be the payout of employers. If there has been an end, then the burden will not fall on the country, the state budget, but on those employers who have broken the employment relationship. Imagine the consistency, the financial consequences for employers. Mr Minister, I ask you how many have been punished by those who have sinned against Slovenia, those who have targeted cannons at Slovenian homes at the time or destroyed huge public property. How many of these have been convicted, even though they walk peacefully in Slovenia. There can be no right to obtain rights under this law by someone who has had a permanent stay elsewhere. In this case, we are only talking about the actual fact of the residence. If he has been employed and resided abroad, if the holder of the residence right is elsewhere, if he has performed any function for which a permanent residence is required. They had a permanent residence elsewhere of their own volition. Allow me only a final thought. We ask ourselves in New Slovenia when we will treat everything equally. What about those who had been wiped out in 1945 and had been wiped out for 50 years? Not just on the list, because these people don't live anymore. Their status hasn't been regulated yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Comrade Kontic, would you like a word? You're giving up. Comrade Jelinčič, he's not in the hall. Comrade Jerovšek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With such a bill, the applicants are actually opening Pandora's box, which will in fact pose a major threat to future generations of Slovenians. We know that the proponents will consciously avoid presenting financial consequences that will be so severe that many of the children of the next generation will bear the consequences of this. In 1990/91, the young and fragile country of Slovenia begged foreigners who were staying in Slovenia to apply for Slovenian citizenship, while many individuals who today feel justified under this law ridiculed Slovenia at the time. Many political thinkers of the parties proposing this law today made fun of the country of Slovenia that it would be a country in which weeds will be eaten, in which there is no perspective, made fun of the Slovenian passport. I believe that many of those who have not applied for the legalisation of their status have inherited those who were then hustling against the Slovenian state, that they did not find the Slovenian state credible. I therefore propose, once again, that they bear the financial consequences which many have realised at the time that they did not submit that they had not come to their documents on a legal basis. Those who said that they would eat grass and now enjoy the benefits of that country or have even adopted it. They should pay for the financial consequences. I respect the Constitutional Court's decision to see in it an attempt of legal principle. However, with what we have heard here today, that at that time today's constitutional judge was essentially Milan Aksentijevic's lawyer and many others, probably Mr Merojevic, who, at the time for a meeting with a party of equal citizens, was agitating, I think the shadow of illegality has fallen because Mr Constitutional Judge Ribičič had not been eliminated. If he was a legal representative or an advocate at the time, how can he today make a substantive decision? The constitutional rule of the Constitutional Judges and all Judges is to be eliminated at the moment in such a case. Just recently, I think that I listened to the President of the Constitutional Court when asked about her opinion on a law, she said that this would be dealt with in a constitutional court, so she cannot give an opinion. And this is where someone defined himself. Since I am in order to implement all the provisions of the Constitutional Court, I must say that the precedent for non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court came from these benches. You swore against the Constitutional Court, called for respect for decisions of the Constitutional Court. In your decisions he found the solution of Jörg Heider not to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to Slovenians abroad, and to replace them, and today they are hypocritically revealed to others. This law can be read and it must be seen that it has a set of solutions that tend to be directed towards the Slovenian state, so that the Slovenian state can be exploited, that this law can be abused, that all Aksentiljevici, Marojevici and others will receive financial compensation from this country, even though they have acted against it and many have cooperated against it and the holes are for all of these here. Ask the Slovenians whether they want to be the same to all, including those who were opposed to self-sustainment. Here the bill was cited by a member of your delegation in the past, as far as it is known, signed under a declaration of disarmament, against the independence of the Slovenian state, preventing the possibility of the Slovenian State to turn against the then JNA. Of course, such Members could not be trusted, and this may not have led to the adoption of the Law. Be aware that the Slovenian nation remembers who and how it behaved in those crucial days, and that the Slovenians are also very sensitive to this matter. Because this law is unselective in what is the legitimate right of every country to have people acting against the country without any rights. Most countries have declared them undesirable. But among this crowd, it is a great minority to agree. Now you throw them in the same basket. Those who have been misled and those who have acted with all their might against Slovenia. For this reason, I think that the law as drafted as it is now being submitted does not have the right to go to a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Comrade Jakich, you have your word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Let me begin by saying that Mr Jerovšek politically Bullet Mencin, former Members, does not reach even to the ankle, let alone to the knee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u97	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u98	On 23 December 1990, we decided and gave the possibility to 200,000 people from other countries of the former Yugoslavia who had a permanent residence to apply for citizenship under the constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. And I am very pleased that Slovenia has been one of the few, if not the only, that has adopted such a liberal law, which is praised by all institutions in Europe that deal with human rights. cca. 170 thousand people took advantage of this right, of the remaining 30 000, left Slovenia around 11,000, and did not apply for citizenship for such or other reasons. Some, because, of course, these rights were not realized, others, because they confused national citizenship and third, who did not want to become citizens, but to maintain the status squo, are said to be permanent or temporary residents. On 15.10., the European Commissioner for Human Rights, Gil-Robles, reported to the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe and, in his report, explicitly wrote down when he spoke, of course, of course, of deleted persons, that not all of these 26 February had been informed, nor were they given a decision to change their status. The issues of colleagues from SDS, the Slovenian National Party and SMS really sadden me. Some say that there is no such practice in Europe. It is true that such a legal and political error has not been made in Europe. Others say it's something extraordinary because the law doesn't regulate things backwards. Look! €5 billion is estimated to be denationalisation - we are regulating things backwards. Returning telecommunications cartridges - 30 billion tolars. This law also regulates things backwards. The correction of the injustices that we have been talking about here today - and it is right to regulate the correction of the injustices in return, so do not say that this law is something special. He's fixing the blame. Also, Mr Jerovšek’s comparison with Heather was not his best comparison. Because if he calls for us not to respect, like Heather - as they respected Article 7, he does not respect Article 7 of the Austrian Treaty, then I do not know what Mr Jerovšek pledera is. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u99	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u100	Well, as for this, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u101	You have a chance of replicating that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u102	What Mr Janša said in his discussion that it was possible - or speculative - that we would like a new additional mandate. I return the ball and ask if then Demos wanted to influence the election result in 1992 by deleting part of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. But I don't think there's a problem here. The problem is, we don't really understand the situation. People did not want to become citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! I do not imagine that any of us living in the Czech Republic, Hungary, would not know which country that has transformed so as not to want to become a citizen for such or other reasons. And they didn't want to become citizens! They were not hate elements, but they wanted to be registered in a register of foreigners with a permanent or temporary residence. And that's the whole point. The point is, you're running a demagogy here, how hostile the element was, etc. The law itself answers this dilemma. The law of all those who have sinned against the law and are lawfully condemned - that is not right for them! They can't do that. When we talk about liability, this law does not really provide for compensation to this people. It is true, however, that it creates a legal basis for bringing an action. But this is a matter of court and practice, how it will react if rights have been violated. And that's why I'd ask you not to mix it up. Don't mix what you've mixed up behind this stage today. A legal administrative error was made to people because no one told them that because within six months they would not apply for citizenship - some did not know as I said - that after six months they would fall into a legal void. And they were actually compared to foreigners, Chinese, French, Austrians, in a strange situation. However, they may have had the status of a foreigner with a temporary or permanent residence. That is why, of course, I would ask my colleagues, I think that Mr Potts said at the outset that we must be aware of what our word means. If we're going to inflame passions that are usually set on fire at the inn, then of course we won't be conspiring to make things right. Thank God, once again, that of course we are also seen by the eyes outside this Republic of Slovenia, and these eyes of the Commissioner for Human Rights have just pointed out that it is a legal void and that this legal void must be resolved in a European way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u103	Comrade Jerovšek, you asked for the word, for the replica and you also have it, because colleague Jakič specifically mentioned you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A few times, my friend Jakič has allowed himself to do so carelessly, but I would like to react to it. He said I didn't get to the knees of a colleague. However, I must say that politically those who were aspiring against the Slovenian country that said that we would eat grass in this country, Slovenia, who signed a declaration on the disarmament of the Republic of Slovenia in order not to be able to defend ourselves against aggression, I do not want to cut them to their knees or to their ankles or anywhere. I really don't want to compare myself to those guys. And somewhere else. Inaccuracies - disrespect by Heider, decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court, association with Article 7. It is true that Article 7 is the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court on local inscriptions. And your opposition to the Constitutional Court's decision on electoral law was the basis across the border for non-compliance with this decision. Mr President, I ask you to try to prevent such rude instigations in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u105	Look, none of the presidents, but I never interfere with the content of the debate if it adheres to the framework or subject matter of the debate; we do not have this right. However, we must always note that it is not permissible to qualify for positions of another and such conduct that others might consider offensive. If that happens, those who are destined to do so also have the right to a replica. That's what you did. I ask that the debate that has been calm and patient so far, despite the fact that we have very different views, obviously, on this issue, remains the same. He asked for the floor only because his colleague Jelinčič had been mentioned and his colleague Jerovšek already apologized for not wanting to mention him, if I understand correctly. Your replica was intended for colleague Jakic. My friend Jakic, would you like to respond? You have a chance. Then we'll finish. Yes, a replica of you being mentioned by your colleague Jerovšek, right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u106	That's right. I just wanted to say the following to Mr Jerovsk, if he misunderstood. That this Bullet Mencin - which is why, of course, I started because colleague Metka Mencin was listed here as one who was working against Lady Bullet Mencin for this independence and this Slovenia had already fought in the 1980s within the ZSMS, when, of course, Mr Jerovšek only came into the plan in 1996. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u107	Good. Look, the replica is allowed, I gave it to you. There's no replica to the replica. If anyone raises their hand, I can ask what's going on, what I've done before. Please, let us remain faithful to the tradition of trying to discuss, even controversial, in some patient tone, regardless of the political differences between us. There's no running buddy. My friend Barovic now has the floor. I ask that we do everything we can to keep the debate within the limits of political culture. Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you. My name is Bogdan Barovic. I am a member of the Slovenian National Party. The country, the Republic of Slovenia awarded me with a silver medal, a state, a veterans' association for the war on Slovenia, because I stayed at home, defended my family and defended the homeland of the Republic of Slovenia. 11,000 of them fled cowardly, and 18,000 speculated. Today, they are expected to make excuses, confess, and pay compensation. Never! More anecdotes before the end. It is not true that they did not know, my dear fellow, Mr Jakič, they did not know. Yesterday someone said to me, "Why did I pay 650 tolars for Slovenian citizenship? If I'd known then, I wouldn't have paid because I'd get a lot more today." I have stories. It's been a long time - or you'll be bored - of Cankar again: "Boys, for slaves born for slaves raised."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor. [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? Just a minute! Since I have regulated a few other things, I have not listened to his debate in its entirety. Did he mention that he named you differently or understood you differently than you wanted? I'll give you a few seconds to fix it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u110	Mr Barovic misunderstood me. We are not talking about those who wanted citizenship. We are talking about those who wanted citizenship, we are talking about those who didn't want citizenship, and he is dragging the parallel wrong way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u111	Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u112	These people didn't want citizenship. They wanted to have registered alien status with temporary or permanent residence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u113	Thank you very much, buddy Jakich. Please, he has the word of a colleague of Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Look, we've been dealing with this issue for quite some time now, and we will, and the approach to solving this issue is diametrically different. I would like to point out that, as a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I have no problem with the fact that some of them were, in those crucial times of Slovenian independence, against Slovenian independence. I don't mind. I don't mind either, if they may have left Slovenia, foreigners, insulted citizens, broken apartments, that is to say with some conviction, we will never return to this unpleasant Podalpa village again. I don't mind. I don't mind them coming back now and coming back to work, living here, and regulating their lives, just like any other civilized country. It bothers me, however, if this country gives the status, which is valuable, which is the basis for citizenship, which is the basis for compensation claims and could still be listed. That bothers me! See, the law says that, while those who have moved out and have been absent for more than a year should not have these options, it specifies so many exceptions, it defines them in such detail that virtually no one who returns to Slovenia after ten years will not receive them. Of course with a great deal of goodness and the width of our Slovenian country. If only I could say that there was one reason, if he had gone away for more than a year and was absent from Slovenia because of life's hardship or because he was afraid of what would have happened to him if he had stayed, and so on. This is said to be so many of these reasons, so vague, not sufficiently defined that there will be no one who will not be involved in these things. Regarding the intolerance of Slovenia, I would only ask: 200 000 foreigners were there, 177 000 foreigners were then, without any discussion, without any difficulty of any kind granted citizenship, because we became new countries and citizens of other republics became foreigners in this legality. Is that impatience? All of the 200,000 who were asked for citizenship was given to them without debate. Of the 7,000 calls the ministry then addressed to those addresses from which no one reported to settle their status, several thousand calls returned with the sign that he was unknown, that he had left without him. The others, just a few hundred, then, based on this call, however, settled their status. And now to say that this Slovenia is impatient, that it is chauvinistic, that it is bad in any way and that it should be corrected is unfair. For this reason, I believe that the regulation of the status of those - and among these, I admit, perhaps even someone who then left Slovenia in any way unintentionally or unintentionally and was unable to return [[whether he was in captivity or not.]] To make it possible for these people. However, the solution, as proposed and as indicated by this law, is unacceptable and therefore we consider this proposal to be an inappropriate basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Comrade Kremjar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I think that colleague Jakič has not for the first time or for the first time pointed out what is the essence of the whole thing and which we deliberately, willfully or unwillingly forget. It's just that some people wanted to stay foreigners and have rights as foreigners and nothing more. And these rights as aliens have been taken from them. And the Constitutional Court ruled that it was wrong to take those rights away from them and that this should be corrected. That's the essence of the whole story. And it doesn't have - whatever we associate with any other stuff, it's this and nothing else. If we're connecting these things now, I think we're getting past the point of the problem. If we connect - and many times it has been heard today, not only today: poor people, what they will have to pay; we have heard numbers: 600 billion has been said, a million per family, where they will get money even if it were true, but it can't be because we don't know this moment, how it will be and what no one knows. [[...]] Even if that were true, gentlemen, the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected and cannot be linked to whether this decision costs much or little. This is at odds with the foundations of the rule of law and the rule of law. If we are to judge the law and enforce the Constitutional Court's decision through this: ah, and this decision costs a lot, and this decision costs little, let's do it - that's not how it works. Those too - I think that colleague Janša has mentioned - say 16 things that await from the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected and must be done. It's got to be done! And the question why we didn't give the initiative is the same why you didn't give it - if, for example, you added what your colleague Janš said. We could both give and demand, but that's not the point. It's respectable. By the way, the compensation we're talking about -- it's not a tax, it's not a penalty, it's the money that this country would have paid if it hadn't made a mistake by now. And nothing more than that. If these people had their rights back then, if they had stayed here, this country would have already paid for it. Please, just, quick, 'cause I'll be done soon. This country would have paid for it by now, and it's nothing but that. And through this optics, even the matter needs to be seen. It's just something else. Even the offers that have been made, if, now we're going to negotiate and I don't know what, are basically unnecessary not to say that they're even passing. Because each one of them will have the right to enforce something if he thinks he's injured in court. Something he'd really get, something he didn't get for it. And the court will rule. If the court decides to get -- I don't know, because he didn't get the kid's supplements -- that's it, that's it, that's it, that's all he's gonna have to get. He can't go to law school for bartering. He can't and can't go. Therefore, I think that in fact, in this law, this Constitutional Court decision is also, in some ways, a victory for the rule of law and the rule of law over politics and bad policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Kelemin's. No one else, just a colleague of Kelemin's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Now, listening to these debates today by some of the representatives who are defending this bill with all the means, I would only say that there are so many politicians and so many Flossules about tolerance, love, friendship, as I have heard today, I have not heard for a long time. And this is said primarily by those who, at every step of their lives and work so to speak, beat the Slovenes and exploit your people. I ask those who advocate this proposal of law as vehemently as to what is worse than exploiting your own people. And you do it every day by not providing them, because you have all the instruments in your hands, not the jobs, not paying them what they do and so on. In short, violations of the rights of the Slovenians, of their own people - as much as you want. The only reason I applied to this debate is because I think it's pretty important. Also because I have lived during this period and have experienced some things on my own. However, I also prepared for this meeting or was interested in all these subjects, so I copied all the old laws of this period, as well as a series of newspaper articles from 1990 onward, to see what was going on, what was going on, what was going on, and so on. In fact, I have found that all those who were in Slovenia at the time, especially from other Yugoslav republics, had many opportunities to settle their status in one way or another, but they did not want to do so. I find out - and you can say what you want here today, and you can do as much as you want - I note that the proposed law is nothing but a project to rehabilitate former officers, members of JLA, who first fought Slovenia, who left Slovenia consciously later, fought Croatia, then Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on, and today their stakes after Slovenian pensions. This is the fundamental point of why this proposal is before us. Obviously, these old structures have so much power, of course, in connection with our authorities, that they will be able to overcome rights that certainly do not belong to them, especially those of which I have talked, because in the first place it is only about rehabilitating former officers, members of the JLA, who would like Slovenian pensions. A lot of Slovenians who are sick, who deserve to retire, will probably never see this happen. To some other individuals who certainly do not deserve it, we will pay back tens of millions, not only for their pensions, but also other compensations that will follow. They will also sue for the loss of health, for the other costs they had in relation to themselves, when they did not have certain rights that they, of course, want or require, and so on. These damages are going to be huge. These claims are going to be huge, and I'm just wondering who's going to pay for all this. You, your fellow citizens, will pay for it. You! Those who do what you do, someone who has power in your hands today, exploits you, and now you will pay an extra price for those who are retired and all these damages they will receive do not deserve. If you're so generous - and obviously you are - and so you like to give, then pay for it too, respected citizens. Then, in the elections, give the mandate again to those who can continue to exploit you and to be able to continue stealing from your pockets those hard-earned bread or the contribution they are giving you for your hard work. In short, I personally think that in order to solve these problems we should find other solutions, many other solutions are possible, many other solutions, but you have decided to do so because it has not only grown on your herb, but it has certainly grown somewhere else and you must now legislate it if you want to remain in power. That's definitely it. It is hard to accept that someone who is against the country, even with his life as the highest value at his disposal, is fighting a country and then demands from that country rights and ratings that do not belong to him. This is an absurd thing to ask. Unfortunately, you have made this choice, of course, I will not personally support this proposal, because I do not want to be guilty of dragging back those last tolls that they have from our people's pockets, or not having them at all, or they will continue to owe themselves to our poor people - at least some will. Those who have taken hold of themselves have not; the rest who work. I will not support it myself, nor will I take the blame for this shameful act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. My friend Skull has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much. For the introduction, I would simply say that this law regulates, as it says, the problem of the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had registered permanent residence on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 in the Republic of Slovenia. That the debate could not be extended from this title in order to solve this problem, for example - as it was said - those who were in Slovenia at the time, say, Nazi occupation or fascist occupation, and could, as one of our colleagues at the beginning said, then they too would be those who would please, Mr Jerovšek [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u121	There's no dispute in the bench. My friend Skull has one word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u122	I think it concerns exactly the specific population, and from this point of view it seems reasonable to say this, I would expect people who are discussing it to read at least the title of the law, if it is not really willing to discuss matter. My performance was actually prepared in a different way at first, but I will use this moment to try in good faith some of these false claims against. I've already told you what kind of population this refers to. This means that the fear of Comrade Janša is also overturned so that someone can gain potentially new voters. If you read the law, you would see that this is not the case, but that it is that those people who are, like - I will say - at the Ministry are skillfully speaking were transferred from one register to another register, to gain the rights of foreigners. However, right-wing people mean a lot of things, but they certainly do not mean that they can elect MPs or MPs to the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, etc. I wouldn't talk about the specifics of local elections so we wouldn't get into this. It is therefore necessary to conclude from this place that these arguments, which threaten to resolve this issue, are very political. It is also political that, in some sense, we use the name of the most exposed soldier, formerly a delegate of the united labour, as that name, which is synonymous with all of these 18 thousand, for example, potential new foreigners. It seems to me that it was made with an account, if you, all of you were fighting Slovenia. It is also very embarrassing to take people's right to their opinion back on the political agenda. Here, a well-known declaration of peace is cited on several occasions, which is strictly referred to by colleagues from the former Social Democratic Party as a declaration of disarmament. I must say that this declaration was signed at the time also by the majority of the members of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia; that there are a large number of people, including themselves, who voted for the final acts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u123	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mr. Jerovšek! I would really like to ask you if you can endure so much that I can speak in peace, because I like to polyminate with you when you ask a question that can only be answered. However, I certainly hope to say that those people who, in the 1980s, formed this initiative to control the military, to demilitarize cities that had various peaceful initiatives that had not been last gathered in Roška before the military court or, if you want, to demonstrate for human rights that they could not be marked - and irresponsible - as opponents of the Slovenian state. If we are going back, then it is only necessary to say that all these movements that were directed against the military and the military and then it is - for those who do not know it, only to say that Slovenia did not have its own army, but had a problem with self-dain - I will say - the Yugoslav armies in the complete space, that they were the people who, in my opinion, opened up the space of democracy and that this was equivalent, if there was no precondition, to form demands on the national state. These people throw into the basket that they were against - including me, which I did not know until 1992, then the opponent or what we were: the enemies of JLA and the city right, it seems kind of funny to me, but it's permissible. [[...]] But it does not explain the problem, but the problem is that in the 1990s or when this legislation came into existence and, of course, there is no voice in the explanations, there is a so-called legal void. And secondly, the Ministry of the Interior acted later illegally. And out of this, it's necessary, you know, to make corrections, and out of this, the Ministry has to be called, [[I'm sorry, President. I'll finish the thought right away.]] , from this out you should of course call that it is also called - I will say - responsible for these things if on the other hand it is called each individual who has signed a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u125	Dr. Brace's colleague now has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Slovenia is a civilised country and must also resolve any mistakes it has made in the past. Of course, Slovenia has made many mistakes, if not others, we have been reminded of this by the Constitutional Court with at least 16 decisions, for which our colleagues in the Liberal Democracy do not have proper hearing and they do not seem to care, even though they are important to many of our people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But there is nothing special about the rule of law, or it is not so important when it comes to this law, but some talk about the victory of the rule of law and so on. So, this duality casts a bad light on those who say it, and I regret that, in that way, I would say, kind of a bad way of showing your attitude towards the rule of law. Why doesn't this law somehow convince me, and why do I think that there is a need for thorough reflection and rejection in such a form? Whoever was given the right under this law has been told many times today, and I would not repeat it. However, I would like to speak to you about Article 5 of this Act, which speaks of the refusal of authorisation. All five indents speak of legal judgments, which are, of course, purely normal under normal circumstances. But we all know that even in Slovenia we were unable to condemn people who were obviously working against Slovenia at the time of independence. That we do not have data on what people who were doing, who were constantly reported here on this day, then went - as JLA officers, for example, in the Yugoslav army on the side of those who committed crimes, on one side, the other side - I do not know where, in Bosnia, in Croatia and elsewhere. In short, this data is not available and it is not clear from this that this data is relevant. I believe that this could be significantly better written. Furthermore, I must say that I am not disturbed by the people who were on that day or on that date, which are written in marriage, in Slovenia, and then left because of personal hardships. Even if there was little speculation with, say, inheritance in Croatia or something like that. These are normal life situations for me and we need to understand this, the time was very tense and many Slovenians were then - not many, but quite many lived on the Austrian side at a time when military activities were taking place here. So it's not about these people who are even less educated by most of the time or who have done a number of things that are less valuable in Slovenia. It's not about these people, but it's about people who played an active role in the Yugoslav army. And in Article 5, if not another, it should be written, let's say - please, since this is the first debate, I can afford a formulation that may not be the best, but perhaps - JLA officers who did not respond at the time to the invitation of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to move to our side in time. So, whoever didn't do it at the time, and he was still an officer of JLA, went to Bosnia or Croatia, which with this fact gave up and lost all rights under this law. Or, say, at the time, I was the director of the security information service and I can tell you that many people have collaborated with the Yugoslav army in this area, which was, of course, quite normal for me, because we knew who was who in Slovenia, because Slovenia is a small country. However, I do not think it would be appropriate for these people who have been working against us, even though they were secret agents, co-workers, as well as members of these Yugoslav army security intelligence bodies, to have this right now. But they were working against us! And now we're giving them the right to go back. We invited them, our Presidency invited them: skip at this time. And they didn't want to cross over. They've been working against us, they've gone, they've been working abroad, I don't know what, there's no record of what they've been doing. Now Slovenia calmly says: of course, welcome! Yeah, what if one of these people is on the list, like, which court in The Hague is gonna finish sooner or later? I don't know that, of course, I don't claim to be one of these people, but this law allows - if I now ironize this Article 5. Under this law, neither Karadzic nor Mladic, if she were registered here, if she had a permanent residence at the time at the beginning - they could come back peacefully and have the right to a permanent residence in Slovenia. Because it's written like that. Because they weren't legally convicted because they weren't - we know what they're supposed to do, but there's no judgment. And I don't know how many more of these events are abroad that people could have done. I'm not saying they did, but if they did, we don't know, and the law allows it. That's what they say. The law is invalid in this respect. I think what my colleague Tsukati warned about is also worth considering. Then, in Article 4, in the first paragraph, the last line says 'in an uninterrupted period, it did not last more than a year'. A year is a long time. Many times our colleagues went a little crazy on this side, but this war was really short and it wasn't a war at all, and that was the third and that was the fourth. All right, all right! Only then can we give it an appropriate time to cut back. On the contrary, if someone, as I have said before - on purpose I repeat this - did not respond to the invitation of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, went abroad, for one year God knows what there is, and now he has the right to come back, to have all the rights and not know what. That's not right. This deadline is absolutely necessary to shorten. It's a matter of months, think about things, and come back if it's up to you. But it's not like we're going to open up some long arms here that are just amazing. If this government, which has prepared this law, were so kind to its own citizens, we would be dipped in honey and milk, because half of the things we wouldn't need. So, listen, there's practically nothing you need to have here to gain rights from this title. The law is also not right in formal terms. Claiming on these financial consequences - as it has already been said today - that "the law of other consequences as an increase in the work of the competent authorities and the possible increase in the number of courts of general jurisdiction in the case of the lodging of claims for damages, which, given the number of possible actions, cannot be foreseen, will not have". Yes, look, please! That's crazy! We already know today that the Slovenian courts are delaying proceedings in the claims of Slovenian citizens because they know that some two budgets should be given to Slovenian citizens from this title and that the courts do not do this work. We know that! That is to say, we are adamant to our own citizens. Why such a benevolent? We should make it very clear here what is going on with these consequences. And I believe it is legally very controversial to say that in one of the last articles we should write that recognition of this status backwards does not mean any other rights, material, compensation, I do not know what kind of rights. I believe that this provision has been legally disputed, but I think that it should be appropriate to consider how to formulate such a formulation in order to withstand the test. I don't think he'll be able to seize the Constitutional Court, but maybe some other court. That is how I think that in formal terms the law is flawed and does not hold up serious judgment, so I will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u127	I don't see a fellow Sušnik in the hall, so I invite my colleague Tank to the floor. You want a word? Please. After you, Comrade Rupar and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. We have heard here many times today that representatives of this political option, which I belong to, that we are xenophobic, that we are unloved, I don't know, foreigners and so on. I think that the majority of this national council to this part of the political options that we belong to is causing quite a lot of phobia and rather severe resistance, and I think that even on this side we should mature a little bit and look at these things slightly differently. This law, which is now in the process, is trying to regulate the situation resulting from war and even postwar events. And the category of people has been deleted, are people who fall during the period of war and postwar events during the period of Slovenia's independence. It is therefore reasonable that the problems related to these wars and postwar events should be regulated in an analogous manner and in a similar manner as they are regulated and as the problems of war and postwar events have been settled since 1945 and at the time of 1945. That period is regulated by three laws, namely the War and Post-war Violence Victims Act, the Law on the Correction of Crimes and the Act on the Compensation Fund for Damage to Victims of War and Post-war Violence. In short, we have experience with an area that has already been regulated in some way, how, is another issue, but it is settled and I think that the problem of deleted ones could also be addressed by supplementing or amending the existing laws governing this area. I think this is mainly because the new laws do not introduce double criteria, because most of the problems or part of the problems related to these war issues are regulated there, are standardised and also evaluated, and I think it would be appropriate for these matters to be regulated in this way. I would like to point out that in that first case, there were slightly worse problems, because those people were also victims of repression, and they lost their property, and their freedom was alienated; in fact, they had no choice. These people, whom we are talking about today and who are being led under the name of deleted, have been given the opportunity or invitation to participate in the institution-building of this country in order to participate in the construction of this country, but have not taken advantage of these opportunities. I think that this step was decided consciously - not under duress, but consciously - and they were also aware of the problems and problems that these things could bring with them. Some of these, as has already been said, have moved out, some of them - I speak mainly for officers - have left with the army and fought on the battlefields in Croatia, Bosnia and elsewhere, in short, have gone to temporary work abroad and are now trying to return and exploit the ratings they are supposed to have in doing so through this law. There is a relatively very high number, about 600 billion tolls of compensation, that is the amount that transfers the total value of the highway program, which we have been doing for 10 years with all the problems and one similar compensation, if it will be established in numbers, as has been repeatedly announced, means that we have also donated to this group some way of giving motorways if there is a settlement or half of the cases, to half the amount, in short, one leg of the highway cross. In this case, we can also talk in some way about only deleted and only evicted persons, for those who left without having to make that move and no one forced them to leave. I just want to say one more thing. Here, in a way, very vehemently with great enthusiasm, the vast majority is defined for this law and for the consequences that this law will bring, but in any case for the great billions. In the next item, we will also consider a law that has financial implications, otherwise significantly smaller. It also refers to the armada of 100 000 secondary and apprentices, which this country has not provided them with the appropriate rights that would belong to them in the education process. And we will see if the option, which most of them belong to, will also be enthusiastic about supporting this law, which should provide these children with rights that should have been regulated long ago. I am for injustice to be rectified - and this for all those who have suffered - but under conditions already in force in this country, not under some exceptional conditions. I think that this law brings some special exclusive solution, gives an opportunity for these exclusive things, and that is why I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. My colleague Rupar is the last of the speakers in the general debate, and then we'll hear the Secretary of State and you're the only one who has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm gonna have to hurry. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I condemn any concerns and attacks on other people, such as the thinking Liberal Democracy and its two, I will say to the support party, if we think emotionally, if we think differently, if we think with the eyes of other citizens who are not just voters or members of these three parties who support this law. From this point of view, of course, you must understand this reaction. You need to understand people who, at the time of independence in the Yugoslav People's Army's uniforms, have marched and fought against these same people and today you see them in the front lines, and they demand justice from these same people, and I don't know any compensation, I don't know what they're all about. You have to understand, people, that they respond emotionally, that they're angry. And from this point of view, you can't judge them as being - I don't know what you're stressing here - impatient, some new intolerance, that they're then some chauvinists, racists even and so on. Well, they're not. They are merely perfectly normal, emotional people who respond primarily because they feel that they are being wronged. In this Slovenia, this injustice has been caused to Slovenian citizens by someone who knows how many times, and no one or at least I don't remember anyone taking such a hard stand for these people, exposing human rights, their rights, as is the case now for these people who are walking in the first kinds of former, aggressors and invaders of this Slovenian country and seeking their right. Of course, I also condemn all those who condemn us in any other way, as did some university professor and former constitutional judge, Mr Krivic, appoints the Member of the Rupar for Neanderthal and so on. I won't answer him. This was written once in the Scriptures. I know he's listening to me on the balcony, so I'm just telling him that I'm not going to react with similar insults against him, because see if anyone in this modern world realizes that he's a Neanderthal, then with a university profession or a name that, according to my assessment, is judged to be a developmental level much, much before Neanderthals. But, well, that's another thing. My personal opinion. It's also about people who need to be corrected for injustice. That's pure fact and truth. Most of those we have seen on the screens are here, in front of parliament, protesting and demanding justice, but they are speculators. That's what I'm saying. They're speculating. It is a pity that we will not check in this law which of them demanded the citizenship of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia. Many of them were involved, but they failed or were not financially paid. And, of course, now they've hit here, in Slovenia, you'll be "here we are, here we are getting some more money from this country". And you get some unfortunate guilt that just represents them - not for free. I immediately support this law and all the laws on the basis of this in favour of these people, if they come before the audience of the Slovenian nation and say, we give up any compensation for them back, we give up no idea of what privileges they are now waving about to belong to them. And I immediately support the law if the guilty man stands before this society and says, "Yes, I'll defend them for free." None of these people will and will ask for anything for being registered. Everyone demands only one thing from this country - and that is money. And now we are at the threshold of those emotional reactions of Slovenians, Slovenian citizens, including Bosnians, Croats and Serbs, who are Slovenian citizens, who lost their apartments after denationalisation, lost their jobs, lost their social allowances, have no rights to basic life. Now understand these people how they react to those who now demand the correction of injustices in every respect, the Slovenian state, the Liberal Democracy, which is in the government, and it has never compensated these Slovenian citizens. Never! And I've never heard one LDS or government policy say, "I'm sorry, unemployed in the factory there, in the factory of Bombay and weaverage" - I don't know, a thousand companies went to waste, a thousand people are unemployed - for one of you to stand for human rights and a decent life for these people. Now understand their emotional response to how they feel when you're here in front of Parliament with some music, just so that [[It was at the board meeting, when we listened to "nice Serbian, uh, music"]] They yell that they want to have their rights or the equation, I want money! Money from this country, czech, took it away from me because during my independence I did not hope to be a citizen, I didn't want to be a citizen here to stay a foreigner, but I worked in a foreign country, and now I'm coming back for my credit, or my money, or something. Let them come before the Slovenian audience, I say again, and I repeat, and let them give up all financial requirements, but not to barter here on fifthy-fifty, let Krivic come here before us, and let him say, my people, just sign us back, sign us in the register, we will not claim any compensation from this country, and all my colleagues will immediately support this law if it is not speculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u131	Peace in the hall. I ask that the Secretary of State, Dr Bulgarian, now responds to the debate. You'll be the last one to have a word, given the time limit. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u132	Dear President, thank you very much for the word, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Members. My intention was to answer all your questions and comments, which is, of course, impossible at this time. So I apologize in advance to those I will release from this list. I have written all my comments and will try to answer only some. Some comments were repeated, so I will not respond to them twice. Some are such that I will try to answer them with a general answer, for they were concerned with a similar question. For the first time, as many Members of Parliament who responded in a cross-section have clearly replied, one topic which has been drawn across the entire debate is that, because someone has not accepted citizenship, that is why he could reasonably have been sanctioned in the way that it happened. There is no obligation under international law to accept citizenship. If this was a comment that we belong to that circle of countries - my professional services say that, for example, Bosnia is one such country that forced all its people to accept Bosnian citizenship, then probably we do not want to be that, because I think we are a normal, modern, liberal, democratic state. The second question is whether the State has the right to determine the conditions under which someone becomes a foreigner. Of course, it certainly has this right, but the whole problem was that it determined these conditions in a way that the Constitutional Court had ruled three times that they were not in conformity with the Constitution. And we need to fix that. All the other insinuations and insinuations to the government to create, I don't know what bodies and elections and I don't know what, the Members themselves replied in the debate. By the way, these people will not have the right to vote in elections for this high assembly, so it is too much to discuss. I must admit that the comments made by Mr Brejc are somehow the most helpful, although I do not agree with them in most cases, but at least I would try to be constructive and make suggestions on how to formulate the articles differently. Because in the debate, whether we do this or not, I find it difficult to cooperate. Most of the discussions went this way, whether we respect the Constitutional Court's decision or not. For example, Mrs Zupan said retroactivity or it was the right arrangement. Yes, such an arrangement is proposed by the Constitutional Court. I don't know what to add here. Mr Pece is against this at all, he has made it clear that he is against the Constitutional Court's decision. Given that we said that the Prime Minister said that we would respect this decision, it is difficult for me to respond here in any other way than to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Mr Petan then added that a case-by-case solution should be made. This second law is just that, from case to case. If you feel that we have arranged these matters improperly, tell us what kind of solution you think is better. For example, Mr Brejc made at least two formulations and said how this should be said. At the same time, I do not know whether, on purpose or by chance, I have overlooked the fact that Article 5 contains only a dictment of being lawfully condemned to various Karadzics and Youths, as I hope, more metaphorically expressed that they are also coming after this permission. I don't know if he tried, but I would just go a little further and read this same article, where we're talking about a legal indictment, not a legal conviction, and that even international and all courts are explicitly mentioned. Of course, this is not an option. Then Mr Jerovšek again used the thesis that because someone did not ask for citizenship, it was right that this had happened. In international law, there is no such duty unless someone knows any new rule or convention under which all should accept the nationality of a country. In the country, it is normal to have some citizens, some foreigners. If some are to become foreigners, however, it is the duty of the State to write such a law that normally allows someone to obtain a permit for a foreigner. Unfortunately, all of this needs to be repeated now. Mr. Kelemina said he had a nice stack, that he'd checked everything out. If I had read the Law on Foreigners in 1992, paragraphs 13 and 16, I would have made it clear that even those who wanted to arrange it could not have done so because it had been prescribed for three years. For example, the whole big group couldn't possibly, all those registered since 1990. The law prescribed a condition that could not be met. Interestingly, the government later corrected the decision, which is not done, because the decision does not correct the law, but the law was interpreted so that they could gain it. With regard to personal hardships, Mr Brejc's comment, when quoting Article 4, which reads: "if a foreigner has left the Republic of Slovenia for the sake of life's hardship", and the following points are well stated, for example, out of fear of forced removal from the country because of the unregulated situation of foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. It is very clear what the Constitutional Court's decision is. It's not like that. It's kind of like you said, 'cause you went to do some business abroad. You mentioned your deadline for a year. I don't know if you've read the Constitutional Court decision setting this as a minimum. So now, if you're suggesting that we go past the decision, this is again the debate I regret not to be able to attend. You Members certainly have this right of a different opinion than a decision, but if we are talking about the law and at the same time say that things need to be resolved from case to case, then the best thing will be settled if you point your remarks in this direction to tell us how to change the dictatorships so that they are different, more appropriate. Mr. Janša mentioned the case of Aksentijevic. Aksentijevic has lost his citizenship before he was deleted and does not belong to this category at all. Let me get this straight. I would like to say that the government here agrees when you say that if someone has acted against this country, that they must not get rights under this law, we agree. [[...]] But then this must be done according to the proper procedure. Therefore, we have written down provisions on legal conviction, on various crimes, and in this way let us prevent them. Not with some flat-rate evaluations that we don't have any evidence of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u133	The time for dealing with this point has expired. Here and there was a debate on the test, but we have brought it to an end in some reasonable context. The National Assembly will decide on a proposal for a decision whether the law is suitable for further consideration today, at 10 p.m. and 5 minutes. Until then, this agenda item will be terminated. We'll continue with 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - WITH FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTMENTS OF THE SUPPORT OF STUDENT FOOD LAW. This debate will take up to twenty minutes after six, i.e. two hours and five minutes. It will be started by the government or started by a colleague of Tanko, who is the bill-maker. I give him my word for further explanation of the law. It's available for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u134	Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to say good-bye to everyone! The law that I introduced into the procedure regulates one of the most obvious and painful white foxes in the field of education, which the authorities have not been able to regulate in nearly half a century, or in more than a decade of independent Slovenia. The diet of apprentices and students has been poorly arranged and poorly organized for more than 50 or nearly 60 years. I believe that there have also been too close in this long period to allow apprentices and students to have a more systematic, orderly and cheap diet, but the necessary and sufficient step has never been taken. Last but not least, we have witnessed such initiatives when adopting a new law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which we have tried better and more effectively to regulate school transport, but no longer than verbal warnings at that time. Here there is a need to criticise governments and some ministries, which, although they knew and knew the nutritional problems and problems of the schooling youth, have not done enough to ease the problems and ensure a subsidised daily hot meal for all apprentices and students. In particular, major problems are accompanied by rural youth who are forced to drive to remote schools and lose two or even more hours each day on transport alone. We can be disappointed not only at the functioning of the education ministry, but also at the work of the Minister and the Ministry of Health, who has made extraordinary efforts to solve some of the marginal problems of Slovenian society, such as the artificial fertilisation of single women at the expense of taxpayers, but completely overlooked the problems of the army of 100,000 secondary schoolchildren. It certainly leaves three or - four-year - missing - food in the most sensitive - period - growing - irreparable health and other problems. The first ones have usually been shown already on "stelunga", as the health status of recruits has been disruptive, and in recent times we are facing a particularly high medical and shorter life span. We have before us a new law on student food subsidies, in which I propose that apprentices and students also be allowed or provided with a subsidised hot meal, on the same terms as those matters are arranged for students. At the same time, it is necessary to say that secondary school youth are absent from 6 to 9 hours a day, drivers are even more likely to have a compulsory schedule and that most of us have a 20-minute break for lunch, and that is why they are already in a significantly worse position than other students, for example, they are not employed. It should be stressed, however, that schools are working very hard to provide their students with good conditions and a wide range of food suppliers, but that is not enough to solve this problem. In order to address most of the problems, it is also necessary to provide budgetary resources. It is estimated that 10 billion tolars are needed, of course under the condition that all apprentices and students benefit from the expected and 70% relief. I believe that these funds could be found in the budget for this purpose. The law was positively defined by the public as well as by the beneficiaries, including the student and student organisations. The law also advocates research that has found an extremely devastating state in terms of both the quantity and the structure and number of meals. The public is only a little skeptical of the will of the enforcer, that is, to the government, which often commits too little resources to certain urgent obligations and thus causes unnecessary complications. I hope that this time we Members will prove ourselves to be adopting a meaningful and logical law, in a better way than we did for the transport of secondary schools and students. I certainly recommend that we listen to the serious problems of secondary school youth and support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! A new law on student nutrition subsidies has arrived in the National Assembly. In 2002, the law systematically regulated the field of student nutrition. A student with a status under this law has the right to a subsidised meal on a working day. With a voucher that the student buys in certain places, he pays for a meal of food in restaurants offering subsidised student food. Students are satisfied with this arrangement. Especially those who are forced to drive or live in a place of study because of their distance from home. This also made the budget of the family from which the student originates considerably easier financially. Moreover, students also have the opportunity to eat better. When we look at what our youth has outside the home, we find that young people are well cared for by the age of nine. As we've seen, it's for the students. But we can't say that for our apprentices and high school students. This, however, does not make it possible for our country to eat cheaper. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that we also need to introduce subsidised nutrition for apprentices and students in the same way as for students, because the subsidisation of student diet has proved to be very effective. High school students are during the most pressing period of psychophysical development, so we should not care about whether they eat healthy and regular meals or not. Their absence from home is increasing due to increasing obligations and transportation to the place of education. Their diet depends on the ingenuity of an individual student or apprentice; now only in some schools can they buy a snack. If we introduce a subsidised diet for apprentices and students with this amendment of the law, we will provide our adolescents with a more regular and healthy diet. At the same time, we will also partially relieve our parents of financial burdens. On the basis of the invitation to tender, the Ministry of Labour shall select the providers of the subsidised diet and the student may purchase vouchers for the current month on the basis of his student card. Of course, financial resources will also need to be provided to implement the proposed amendment to the Food Subsidy Act. That these funds can be found in the budget, we are confident in the New Slovenia Group. We know that in our country some money is running out of budget where there are no positive effects for citizens, or money is urgently needed, while the concern for healthy nutrition and the health of our youth is still a priority. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that we must unite our species both the ruling coalition and the opposition in order to demonstrate political will and support this amendment of the law, so that we can legally resolve this problem and not just by regulation. If we look at how they handle this in other EU countries, we will find that in most countries they care for their school-binding youth. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that our country is by no means so poor that it does not overpower the financial resources for subsidised diets of all regular schooling young people. That is why we will support this amendment of the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Celigoj has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we have examined the draft law before us today. We note that the proposal is not substantively appropriate for the matter under consideration, since the Act on the organisation and financing of education and education adopted by the National Assembly in 1996 already covers the said matter, and in the year 20th indent of Article 81, paragraph 6, provides precisely and unequivocally for the provision of resources from the State budget for the activities and tasks necessary for the management of education and education activities. Among others, in the 20th indent, I quote: "Traffic and nutrition subsidies for pupils, apprentices and students and higher education students". End of quote. Not only that, we would add that in the 26th indent, funds are also provided for the transport of primary school students and for the protection of drivers. In the third indent of the first paragraph of the following, i.e. Article 82 of the same law, we can read a provision which, from the local community's resources in accordance with the standards and standards, provides means for the transport of primary school pupils and means for the protection of drivers whose residence is more than four kilometres away. Therefore, with the best will, we can agree to the assessments made by the applicant in the explanatory statement that our country has virtually nothing to do with training young people with cheaper diets. In addition, teaching does not take place throughout the day, as it does at the university, at longer intervals. Here we have an additional condition that the problem of school kitchens, food distributors within the school, is not solved. Students have much shorter breaks, so they usually only have meals when they get home. The Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia is and will always advocate for social correction and positive discrimination in the social field for all generations. However, we do not feel that it is necessary for a matter to be regulated on a regular basis twice. It is more reasonable to turn and deepen, to seek solutions for those matters that are not yet regulated and which deepen social differences between our citizens. We understand the generosity of the bill's proponents, but unfortunately there is no solution within the current legislation. The increased funds in the student nutrition fund and transport by the Ministry of Education are at least promising to improve the existing situation. The DeSUS Group supports the opinion delivered by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the proposal of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On behalf of the united list, Mrs Silva Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman! Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on student food subsidies, which is the first to be considered. The purpose of the law transmitted by SDS Member Jože Tanko in the parliamentary procedure is to arrange, on the basis of a model of the law on student nutrition subsidies adopted at the end of 2002, at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, to subsidise food for pupils, apprentices and pupils on a similar basis. It is true that the Law on Organised Financing for Education and Education, Article 28, provides that the State budget shall also provide for the activities and tasks necessary to carry out education and education activities, including food subsidies for pupils, apprentices and pupils and higher education students. The motives and reasons why Member Tanko decided to act for the present law are written down, even some comparable data for countries such as: Austria, Finland, Greece, Germany, Spain. I'm surprised Austria doesn't have exact data. Unfortunately, no data are provided on how much and how much and where such food is organised or not organized. Nor does it indicate how many students who drive away to school daily and how many such students need to find themselves. We can see that most student data are collected from data sources or from other data collectors. According to the content, they are most often focused on collecting data on the abuse, violence and exploitation of children and students when adopted, on accommodations, on unaccompanied children, on refugee children, even on child trafficking, on student suicides, but unfortunately very little or no information on the way and culture of nutrition, on the quantity, on the variety of food and on the many, which is related to the diet and lifestyle of students. Of course, this segment needs to be regulated. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we expect that the National Strategy of the Food Policy will also offer important answers to these, unanswered questions. In view of the fact that the findings on unhealthy nutrition and lifestyle are children and young adults [[read: students]] In recent times, we expect the Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, to offer a long-term systemic solution to this gap, where a food policy will be drawn, where we expect the promotion and campaign for healthy food to be given, especially among young people who, according to the White Paper, consume less fruit, vegetables and more. This strategy is intended to bring and trace measures to improve, protect and preserve health and the quality of life of the people of Slovenia, especially adolescents, for whom this is very important. It also points out and speaks to the national programme against poverty. This is intended to improve eating habits and focus on providing sufficient food, quality and health for useful food to enable the optimal development of young adults. Thus, in the UK Group, we expect that the present strategy and other measures, which will, among other things, resolve this problem and feed children and students, will be so permanently and systematically resolved, as Article 81 of the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education makes it clear that funds for these purposes are earmarked for the state budget. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we expect the government to offer systemic and lasting solutions to this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The positions of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Saša Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u143	It is interesting that the most powerful advocates for the invented rights of the deleted object to a law that assigns some credit to Slovenian citizens, even more, to those of the youngest Slovenian citizens, while at all odds they try to give as many rights and no obligations as possible to the so-called deleted. It is a strange strategy of Slovenian political organisations that in this way try to take our country forward to Europe. Of course, such an approach makes sense to ask what lies ahead in Europe. What awaits us in Europe with this amount of duality? In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law in contrast to the United Nations. We estimate that the applicant is trying to bring the student diet system closer to the applied or accepted student diet subsidy system. And it seems to us that this type of measure, especially if it has proved to be positive in the past, is also applied at this stage, i.e. at a lower level both after age and after the educational process. We also assess that the objectives pursued by the drafter of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Food Subsidisation Act are correct. First, to allow through the country access to one subsidised meal per day, which would, on the one hand, allow the financial burden of Slovenian families within parents or students themselves. On the other hand, in spite of the proposal or the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the irreconcilability of financial consequences or the fear of too much resources to wait for the budget, we need to highlight a comparison with the previous item on the agenda, where this national assembly of several billion-dollar discussions, according to some estimates of up to 800 billion Slovenian tolars, has adopted the law and, on the other hand, at least on the basis of the presentation of the views of some parliamentary groups, has a percentage of the relatively comparable amount of pain. In the National Party, we will support the draft law and sincerely hope that if you have accepted representatives of the parliamentary groups, the members of the National Assembly for their conduct and, in the framework of your conduct, that appeal from Europe, let us be generous, be generous for a change once also to the Slovenes and Slovenes, not only to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, my friend! In this mandate, school legislation has changed several times, either on a proposal from the government or on a proposal from other qualified applicants. However, no one has tackled the obvious long-term problem of nutrition and nutrition of secondary schools, even though such initiatives have been given several times. Finally, the government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport have been alerted to this programme in the adoption of a new law on the financing of education and education, which regulates transport subsidies for apprentices, students and students. Before that, an excellent opportunity was missed when the student diet law was passed. The fact is that the problem of high school nutrition has remained unregulated for decades and that it is the largest white fox or black hole in our education system. It depends on the perspective of how the problem is handled. One hundred thousand or more young people who enrolled in regular high school programs each year and thus gained the status of apprentice or student have been completely despised and left to themselves and their ingenuity for a number of years. Anyone who continued schooling after primary school has been exposed for three or four years to the poor effects of the insufficient care of the competent national authorities, who have been tasked with providing both for education and for the health of citizens. After this wage, most of us citizens who signed in and graduated from this part of the educational process were erased and forgotten for a certain period of three or four years. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to impose various additional burdens and test reforms. The medical condition of the students is quite devastating. All studies and analyses show that food conditions, eating habits, quality, structure and frequency of meals in Slovenians are not good. It has been found that we do not properly distribute meals by quantity, by content, by time, or by meal. Even in a far worse situation, those who are already prevented from eating at all in advance are likely to eat well. This group undoubtedly includes the secondary population, apprentices and students, whom the country has completely overlooked and forgotten to help them create adequate and healthy conditions for education. Although high school students are away for at least six hours, some even nine or ten hours, and have very crowded and demanding schedules at their disposal only a 20-minute break, the main break to eat the meal, some for various reasons, especially due to lack of financial resources, cannot buy and remain completely without food all the time. In most cases, however, school time is spent on one cold or fast food meal. Some who are more difficult to break through high school are waiting for their first meal when they get home. And there are drivers in a much worse position. These few minutes of rest are far too little for decent and human consumption of food, since they spend half or more time on the purchase of snacks. This part of the population is fed almost exclusively with fast food, sandwiches, pizzas and similar things. A warm meal during this period, at which time no one eats. While the vast majority of schools are working very hard to facilitate access to food for their students, they are actively involved in organising school diets, as they are aware that unregulated diet is significantly hampering the school process: to increase or accelerate negative phenomena, to increase irritability, to reduce concentration, and thus to lower the quality of the school process and, of course, to worsen the results. The worst, emerging worst conditions and quality of nutrition in the population structure are those of secondary schoolchildren who are systematically exposed to inadequate, irregular and inadequate nutrition during the most sensitive period of mental and physical growth. Of course, such a long exposure to poor and poor nutrition also has consequences. Some have shown themselves very soon in the systematic examinations, until recently also in the kits, as quite a number of recruits have been eliminated for health reasons. The consequences also appear in a poorer psychophysical condition, in finding substitutes and so on. Unregulated diet also leaves lasting consequences, which are reflected in the average high hospital absence in the working period and, of course, in the much shorter lifespan of Slovenians compared to other Europeans. It is precisely due to the large absence of hospitals that the contribution to the common well-being is much lower, labour efficiency is lower, and the pressure on public funds and cash-flows, which cannot be covered anymore, is quite premature. As a result, this part should also be processed in the Kebre health reform, since it is more than obvious that poor, irregular and poor nutrition in the most vital period of time and mental growth contributes greatly to waiting times and waiting columns in clinics and clinics. Most students have their daily school obligations at least as long as the vast majority of employees. As I mentioned, they're away from six to nine hours a day, sometimes even longer. For employees, the rights concerning reimbursement of work-related costs are strictly prescribed and regulated in collective agreements. In our case, in the collective agreement on non-agriculture. This provision in Article 42 provides for the reimbursement of labour-related costs and during these reimbursements, in the first place, for the regulated and prescribed diet during work. And if you don't mind, I'll quote this part. "Workers are reimbursed for the cost of eating during work. Workers who work at least half-time, trainees, students and students in practice are also entitled to reimbursement of the cost of eating during work." That is to say, even if this student enters a work organisation, he is entitled to a hot meal. Only in the case of regular high school education is this meal not prescribed for him. Interesting! After the talks, young people, I don't think they have a qualified representative, because no one will try hard enough to improve their conditions. The Diagnostic Organisation and the Ombudsman are more concerned about the problems of the Ministry and the government with the provision of the necessary financial resources to be provided by the State than the need to deal with the problem and have almost accepted the existing one, that is, the unhealthy situation. Arrangements for the needs and rights of apprentices and students are being diverted into the hazy future. One gets the feeling that the biggest problem that arises in this law is not actually a proposaler. Students have, thank God, this part covered by the recent student diet law. In doing so, it should be noted that students, although they have very similar burdens as students, have significantly more manoeuvre space, as their schedule is generally much less binding and can largely determine their own presence in lectures and exercises. Students, however, have a mandatory schedule and leave is not allowed, so they must be present at school on a regular basis. This also makes students in a significantly worse situation than students. The proposal to use a well-functioning and efficient student diet system to set up a model for subsidising the warm meals of apprentices and students is entirely rational, although it allows the possibility that the system for the distribution of vouchers and control of distribution should be completed, but this is a less important detail. It is essential that the project be set up as soon as possible and implemented immediately, as the situation in this area needs to change radically. A recent World Food Day was also a World Food Day, and on this day at the Health Care Institute Celje presented a study on the way in which cellular secondary schools are fed. The study and the media responses to it have demonstrated the problems and problems faced by students in the celery secondary schools. Similar or even worse, the findings would have been if such a study had been carried out in any less rich area of Slovenia, where there is even more poverty and denial. However, the study Communication was quite clear: the situation is divisive and needs to be addressed immediately. Today we have an opportunity, a first opportunity, and I hope that the Members of this Assembly will also take advantage of it. Our parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be set by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the basic objective or purpose of the bill in that it is the student's years that are strongly decisive for the individual's physical and personal development, so the country must have a positive influence or enable these young people to offer themselves as much as possible a daily meal through the instruments it has at its disposal. At the same time, these young people are extremely receptive to all kinds of social influences, which must also offer a range of appealing negative practices. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we feel that it does not matter what it is or how the proposal for this Act should also establish a system of supply of adequate food meals, and not what the value of this service should be. In particular, we advocate the possibility of offering as much as possible, or the possibility of feeding students, if not already in the schools they attend, in its immediate vicinity, according to the curriculum prescribed by every high school in its curriculum. However, it is a questionable solution for us to grant individual subsidy tasks in accordance with the law of the student organisation of Slovenia, because in students who should be adults, this thing is not working very well, which we can get to know every day. We believe that it is a matter of establishing the best possible diet for students in the first place, which, in a logistical sense, must be established by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport through the management of secondary schools. We also believe that the financial issue is linked to both the quality and the price of the meal and that this entry of public funds in terms of subsidising the meal must be resolved interdisciplinaryly within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party appeals and expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption, possibly additional legal solutions, with an appropriate amount of financial resources under the State budget or additional resources under the already adopted national budget balance for 2004 and beyond for the 2005 budget to be adopted. The purpose of the bill is to enable students to have an adequate and affordable daily meal for them, as I said in the introduction, is good. However, the whole implementation floor and the financial starting point are misplaced and not properly set up, and therefore the parliamentary group will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party will be presented by Mr Marko Diaci. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u149	Nice greetings to all present! The Honourable Minister. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are often aware of the situation in the field of nutrition of both students and students. That is why, in the past, we have paid particular attention to the regulation of student diet, which, in this mandate of the National Assembly, received its legal basis on the basis of a bill of which I was the first to be a signatory, and thus a long-term arrangement which means a stable implementation of student food subsidies. We are convinced that students today need flexible working hours for their parents, for the multitude of school obligations and, last but not least, for the many school activities that are available throughout the day, for the benefit of the students and their parents and for the society as a whole, to provide adequate care for this population. Therefore, it will not be too much to state again the facts of the need to regulate student diet. It has been in place for a long time, so that we can talk about one of the rare evolutionary laws that have also proved to be adequately resolved in practice, or their need for legal regulation has been proven by practice. These facts, if briefly highlighted, were mainly the health status of the student population, the infrastructure established, the established control, the established distribution and general eligibility linked to student status. The Regulation on subsidisation of student diets also regulated this regime previously. The law thus introduced stability and longevity. Once again, let me express my satisfaction at the adoption of this and my gratitude to all, both to the co-signors of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation and to all those who have supported me in the last vote. In the Young Slovenia Party, we have been actively preparing solutions that are essential for regulating the diet of pupils and students for some time now. We estimate that the existing diet regime is impractical and in practice does not achieve the objectives set, which is also confirmed by various analyses of the health status of the diocese population showing a catastrophic situation. We are pleased to see other parties thinking about this issue. We only hope that this is not just a pre-election move, but a motive for this integrated resolution of the problem. If we look at the current situation, we can find that 620 million tolars have been allocated to repress student nutrition in last year's budget, and this year's proposal is 919 million tolars, which, according to the budget's explanation, is enough for the regressive diet of about 24% of high school students coming from less wealthy families, which, in our opinion, is not enough and will probably not be enough. Now to the bill. We consider the proposed amendment and supplementation of the law on student nutrition subsidy to be well-intentioned, but not comprehensive, prepared without adequate knowledge of the population's issues, as well as insufficient knowledge of the implementation of student diet. Let me give you a tax ruling. Firstly, according to the law, she is the performer of the tasks of the Diac organization of Slovenia, which does not formally exist. Secondly, beneficiaries are expected to identify themselves with a student card, which is also not formally defined. Thirdly, the implementation of nutrition for the secondary school system, as envisaged by the proposer, is linked to extremely high manipulative costs. And fourthly, we find it controversial from a socio-social point of view to organize food for high school students at the inn. This is also confirmed by several statements made by representatives of the diocese communities who, as in the Party of Young Slovenia, have found that the existing regime for subsidising diocese diet is inadequate, as should the proposal for amendments to the law that is in the procedure. We are also aware in our SMS that education is a national priority and a public good that needs to develop in the interest of the development of the Slovenian people, their national and cultural identity, in the interest of achieving the broad well-being of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and is an assumption for the creation of a society in which each individual will have the opportunity with his/her knowledge, work and experience to fully realize his/her creative potential. As one of the measures taken so far for this purpose, we also see in the Party of Young Slovenia the regulation of the diet of students. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that it is more appropriate to regulate the diet in the context of a separate law, where the diet should be regulated as follows. Firstly, the subsidisation of student meals is defined as the right to which all students are entitled and not as social assistance. Secondly, the diet should be carried out in the framework of school restaurants. Thirdly, it is necessary to define the student card, the distribution system of vouchers and the secondary school institutions to establish the appropriate infrastructure for the implementation of the system. Fourthly, we allow the possibility of a transitional period of up to a maximum of three years, within which adequate nutritional capacity should be regulated within all secondary schools and, in the meantime, the provision of a diaphragm with a constitutional or otherwise constitution should be ensured wherever possible. Fifthly, the carrier of the student diet must be the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. This is, in our view, five key points on which the student food subsidy system should be based and it would be useful to regulate it within the framework of the new law, in view of the Government's will to find the means of implementation, and that of any government. However, these points could also be included in this existing law, but a number of additions that I mentioned earlier are needed. We therefore estimate that a concrete solution could be reached jointly within the framework of the new umbrella law on the subsidisation of the student diet.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mrs Stana Stopar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good evening, everyone, and especially to the Minister and the secretary. Your Honor! In August, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the student diet subsidy law was tabled for consideration by the National Assembly. The main objective of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on subsidising student diet of the candidate Mr Jožet Tank is to guarantee students and apprentices the right to one subsidised meal per day after the same system as students. We do not support Mr Jozet Tank's proposal in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. We believe that the introduction of the same system as students is not the best solution. The proposal for amendments for us is also not variable because it imposes an additional burden on the 2004 state budget of 10 billion sitt. However, the Ministry of Education does not have this money, so the law could not be implemented. For a long time in the parliamentary group, we have been drawing attention to the systematic irregular diet of secondary schoolchildren. Indeed, in the most sensitive period of growth and development, they are left to themselves and many times to market offers. Many of the surveys conducted by primary schools and secondary schools confirm the enjoyment of insufficient healthy meals and the irregular consumption of daily meals. According to various health and school institutions, the nutrition of pupils and students is one of the major problems at social level and even more at the quality of living habits. In 1994 and 2002, the Basic Development Programmes Act was adopted and supplemented in the fields of education and science, which has at least partially rectified the situation, as resources have also been proposed to develop a healthy diet. By means of this law, we wanted to have additional means to influence the rise of subsidies and the quality development of this area. However, we are aware that the means to obtain subsidies are not yet sufficient. This year, the government decided to increase the funds for this purpose by about 45%. Thus, a systemic solution to the problem of student and apprenticeship diet is essential, which will allow healthy eating habits while at the same time covering as many as possible who need a complete subsidy. That's why it's not going to go as well as with the students. High schools are scattered throughout Slovenia, and the way they are educated is different from those of students. We will not support Mr Tank's draft law in the parliamentary group. We believe that it is incomplete, that it is incomplete, and especially because of the fact that the proposal does not bring about the broader system regime required by the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First, he has the word Mary Ana Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we have listened to the opinions of various parties. We all note that this issue of high school nutrition needs to be addressed. From my own experience, I know exactly what that means. I've got so many kids that I could monitor this from close range with my drivers. That's true, I don't say catastrophic, and my parents haven't been as hurt as some others have been since then, and they've had a long way to get to the bus when they were leaving home. That's why I think this has to be handled in any way. If the ruling coalition finds out, everyone in a row, how is it necessary to systematically find a solution, why haven't you found it so far? Now he has given Mr Tanko, from the opposition is true, perhaps a little under-delayed law, but I think there is at least something we can build on. And let's get married together and do something about solving the problem. Not just the research, but the findings, then the systematics, but I don't know what. There's got to be a solution, that's the problem. But if there's no money provided, please look for internal reserves. There's talk of internal reserves everywhere. Even with the Ministry of Social Affairs, including the Ministry of Education, you might find an internal reserve. We have to look at ourselves first, then we can only talk. That's all I want to say is that any way this problem needs to be solved. Youth is our future, but it has no electoral right to fight for its rights, for its legal protection, so we are here to protect the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. I know I'm going down on a very slippery floor, and I'm opening up to the opposition's obviouss, that I don't have a developed social sense for a vulnerable population, but I'm going to take a risk and tell you why I don't support the proposed law. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation does nothing but complements and amends the title and offers a solution that is absolutely inappropriate for this population. The proposed voucher solution is unacceptable and unfulfilled for high school students. Those of us who have worked in secondary and higher education know that these two segments of education are incomparable, not only because of the organization of the study or learning process, but also because of the age of the population. Another time. I would like to believe that the purpose was very good, but if I look at the fifth page, where the table showing solutions in other countries looks like all European countries have this subsidy for secondary education. But if I just look on the fourth page, I see it's not true. They have a differentiated approach. Most often they decide to support in the case of accommodation, at the same time accommodation and catering. The worst part is that, of course, there is a pooled lower and higher secondary level here in the comparative review, although you explained in the introduction that the lower rate is the one that is comparable to the primary school. The feeding habits of the Slovenian secondary generation are not healthy. From Maribor, I know quite a few research tasks that high school students have prepared themselves if I'm right in my conscience. At least I know six of them. But if you look there for an answer to the question of how they imagine their diet should be arranged, surely this is not what we think would be healthy and good. They're not answers in favor of a warm meal as lunches, they're answers to other forms. Here I would like to point out that in secondary education there have also been eating disorders in this generation. That these are the disorders that are purely medically conditioned, that something has to be done I agree, and that's why I said at first that I'm going down on slippery ground. But I stress that, in the way proposed here, this cannot be resolved. However, it is easier for me because there are 45% more resources in the budget to regulate this area, and I hope that the amounts will be strengthened by appropriate measures in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Sasha Peca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u157	I cannot say that I am satisfied with the debate when one of the Members proposes a solution and then the entire National Assembly attacks this Member, if his solution is too inadequate, especially in the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure and at what stage is the individual law. I am convinced that all the criticisms that fly to the proposer, not by the national party, but by the other Members, could be refined in the form of amendments to the law before its entry into force. However, I would like to point out two people who have already been exposed and for whom I might also like to identify the proposer. For the first time, the student diet would be carried out in the framework of school restaurants, which could have been a well-meaning comment by the representative of the youth party. And in the second part where the student card is supposed to be defined. Our purpose, i.e. Slovenian national parties as well as probably the proposer, is one good quality law. And at least within our client's framework, we are assessing that the beginning is positive and therefore once again stressed that we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Butolen has the floor. Don't you? Good. Master Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I took a closer look at this government opinion. Mr. Minister, these arguments you've made are very puzzling. Much more technical arguments she gave a text message, some suggestions are worth considering, but what you wrote in there is not logical, not logical. So your arguments could not be accepted. Now I don't know if you've read what you signed or if you've written it. In short, the proposal as such, we see that it is targeted correctly, some improvements would probably need to be made. As already mentioned by colleagues, it is quite appropriate to arrange for vouchers. The vouchers don't impose a way of organising a diet. Food can also be organized in school, it can be in a nearby restaurant. In order to comply with social criteria, however, vouchers may be introduced, or whatever else we say. So it's nothing to be confused with logic. I don't know why the diet of students and students couldn't be in the same marriage. Just as it couldn't be in the Humanitarian and Disability Organizations Act. Finally, we all find that it would be better if it were in one marriage, but that is the least of the reasons. Because of me, it can be for everyone, but for the argument that it can't be together, I don't see any reason. In short, this proposal by fellow Member Tank is completely meaningful and good. Of course, students could eat easier if the ruling coalition had more hearing about regulating a constitutional decision on income. We've been guilty for seven years. It's been seven years! Five times at least, I suggested that we deal with those laws that are, I don't know, three or four in a row. And there is no wise decision or right decision. If we were to enforce this law, a constitutional decision, it would be much easier for parents. We could provide these funds, because the Constitutional Court's decision on income is just about making it possible for parents to benefit from the vital cost of living for children. That's right. 10 billion, yes. I have just asked you a question on the questions sent to you, specifically to the gentleman, Dr. Marble. 30 billion blew up. Just because you haven't thought about what's wrong with the euro bonds, how to nominate them. Because you think you're such an expert. You lost $30 billion with one swing. And we'd have food, as he says, for three years. Because you're such an expert government! It's a matter of priorities and it's a matter of real expertise. So, of course, there's no money. Interdisciplinary government. Mr. Brenčič, I'd rather say an interdisciplinary government because you're all repeating the same parrot. You start with the arguments: okay, the diet is necessary and so on, and at the end - the form is not real. Let us build on this law if we have differing thoughts. I think the base is fine. We waited a year, and there was no initiative. In short, marriage is an appropriate foundation. I will support this law myself and I think it will also be supported by my fellow Members in Novi Slovenije. Of course, we may find additional solutions to make this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I, too, think that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. I understand, however, that against the law, the representatives of the United List and the LDS and the remaining coalition are against the law, because if they want to pay the so-called deleted, they will need much more money in this case. And it needs to be picked up anywhere, in the students, in the students, they'll probably get into primary school soon and into kindergarten. But I don't understand the representative of the Youth Party that they're actually against it somehow. Because I think all things can be settled with the amendments. Of course, if it is the will and desire to settle the law to the extent that it is acceptable. I think it's understandable that the gentlemen of the coalition will not support this. I think it's too much to just scatter money for Slovenian children when they have to give money to everyone else who is not Slovenian and will become Slovenians just to be able to give their votes to some or most of the representatives of these parties. I think that this is unacceptable and is the principle of aprior to reject laws concerning Slovenian school youth, whether students, students or primary schoolchildren. That's unacceptable. And once again, for us, the law is suitable for discussion at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u162	Replica, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič, now you've had a hard time manipulating yourself. What you just said is not true. I didn't explicitly say I was against this law. I didn't say that, and please don't manipulate it. However, I have said that certain elements that I have listed in five points must be incorporated into this law or into the new roof law. I've listed specific arguments in five points. And what you're manipulating now is not true! These points can be incorporated into this law, which will be much harder, or into a new law. I think it'd be easier in a new marriage. However, if we decide to move forward with this law, we will have some problems because it will be difficult to identify the contractor, it will be difficult to identify the card and so on. And this is where you're dealing with a problem that I'm not even aware of.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. You don't have time, Mr. Jelinčič, by the way. The next is the turn and the replication of the replica is a very problematic issue under this Rules of Procedure. Mr Franz Pukšič is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, I, of course, think that the amendments and implementation of the law on student nutrition subsidies would be appropriate. Some of us have been preparing for this meeting also for tomorrow's meeting when the Ombudsman's report is due. And there you could read that many traumas and problems arise in families with parents between 45 and 50 years of age due to the loss of employment and innumerability, the inability to re-employment. Therefore, they have major personal and family traumas due, of course, to financial problems. In the family, this way of feeding children would bring one point of hope that this high school child would, however, be guaranteed a warm meal. More. We have done a lot in local communities recently in the area of kindergarten construction. Although today, when we draw up municipal budgets, we find that the numbers in the area of co-financing of kindergartens are significantly larger than they were until we had them. We note that the very reason is that these children’s welfare groups are brought into kindergartens and that from an economic point of view it is a cost and a loss for the congregation. From a social, human point of view, we know that this child gets a warm diet at that time. This is actually correct even in these extremely difficult times.The Ombudsman's report also states that in the last year, the number of unemployed has not been reduced, but that the numbers are smaller because of a different representation of this number, because some have missed out over time. All that some of you have observed or have commented that it is necessary to supplement the need to add can be done with the amendment in this law if we have a serious and fair purpose. As far as finance is concerned. True, it says that it takes about 10 billion. With regard to what colleagues have said before, how much money should be spent on deleting, on the so-called deleted, those who have not lived now demand compensation, we actually have 80 years of funding for student nutrition. This cannot be such a budget number if there are so many numbers on the other side. Today, the social democratic youth here in Ljubljana has made a good gesture. By the way, they asked: ‘ Have you had lunch yet, and do you, of course, want to have lunch with a young adult child? Of course, people who have just signed and given this law to the proposer and, of course, to all those who will decide on it, support and encourage us to make the law so that it will certainly be of particular benefit to young people. So we like to refer to how the world stands on young people, what they would do, and so on. But now it's a very specific matter and it's a real problem. Last but not least, we are comparing ourselves with the European Union, and even in this case we see that food in the European Union for young people is largely taken care of. I believe the Minister would like to introduce some social corrections here. This is also possible and probably the same as in many other cases, in fact, the easiest way through the local community. However, certain tasks must be delegated to the local community and, of course, also, the Minister, money. Unfortunately, since 2002, some of the obligations of the local community that must be covered by it in transport and so on are not financially covered. Things are just because there's something standing in court somewhere. But according to the law, things aren't covered. So, social adjustments can also be introduced with amendments to this law, it can be controlled, it can be passed on to the local community. Of course, it is also necessary to provide funds in this way. It's only about whether we really want to settle this or say it, like some people say, "We're going to make a system law, and we're going to make another." But it's those who had that chance for 8 or 12 years. That's no excuse. That is why this proposal for a law offered by the proposer is the only way to upgrade it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the parliamentary group, a clear awareness has already been presented in the LDS Parliamentary Club on the food problems of young people in education, as well as the concerns expressed and proposals for action that we see in the parliamentary group. As principal, I also had the opportunity to monitor the events taking place in one of the secondary schools, which included both high school and vocational programmes. On the inside, I would like to start by saying that it is extremely important that we talk about the system, that we do not talk and that we are not limited to a number that will, of course, be needed to provide the necessary funds for organising school meals. Of course, at the outset, I would like to make it very clear that the government and this minister, who is also present here today in our debate, has done a great deal in this area over the past 10 years. And I think it is necessary to stress this by the bill's proponent in one of its reasons for the law that, compared to how other countries regulate this area, the state of Slovenia practically does not allow participating young people to eat cheaper. I would like here to remind all our Members of the debate that was held by my colleague Rudi Moga in the debate to answer Dr Dimovski's reply on the social differences in the region, where he described very precisely the importance and role of liberal democracy and the government in all this period of education. And in this area, already in 92 with a government decision, certain measures were intended to regulate the food sector. In 94 and 2002 there are two laws that clearly define the meaning and regulation of this area. The Law of 94, which covers the provision of funds for certain urgent development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in education and education, provides in point 5 the provision of funds for the school diet of children and young people. The Act adopted in 2002 and the Basic Development Programmes in Education and Science Education in 2003 and 2008 are again addressed in the priority directions for the development of healthy nutrition. This seems very important to me to stress so that it does not remain in the air, that Slovenia does not worry that it does not monitor this area, which, as I have already said, in the Group of Members, we believe that certain problems remain and need to be addressed so carefully. The second thesis cited by the proponent in his explanation is that the students are mostly not able to find themselves. Here I would very much like to draw attention to the legal provisions which clearly speak of the fact that, in the umbrella law, we clearly define the share or co-financing of the State budget in Article 81 of the Education and Education Act. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the Law on High Schools, which clearly states in Article 32 that a high school for all pupils organises at least one meal of food daily and the Law on Vocational and Vocational Education, which clearly states in Article 59 that schools for all students or students are organised at least one meal a day. And I have to say, in my name when I was principal, and I am also sure, on behalf of other principals and teachers, that there is a great deal of concern in this area and that, of course, during a 30-minute break, which is intended for eating in high schools, we try to make students have access to one meal. Of course, we want to take advantage of all the capacities that are at our disposal and, of course, where possible, even a warm meal. This was concretely possible in Ruša, because there was also a student home at the school and, of course, we have also tried to organise educational work in school and provide students with the necessary food service. In doing so, I would also like to draw attention to the dilemma that has arisen to me and, as I know Mr Tank, that was not his intention to what the proposer's wish is; or to provide restaurants that would allow school nutrition to be suspended or actually subsidised and to provide school food. For we cannot go beyond the explanation in which it is written that all major places would have a supply of subsidised food. As far as I know the network of secondary schools, I am sure that there is a secondary school in any small place and, of course, we would not want to be able to understand the law in such a way as to organise food in larger places, while the system could be questionable in smaller places, of course. But I'm sure my colleague Tanko didn't have this in mind. Maybe it was just a embarrassing record. It seems to me that there is no problem in liberal democracy that we follow the purpose of the law and support the basic idea. Of course, I wonder whether an effective system, as has already been said here and with which we can also agree, can be transferred in school meals from the student area to the field of secondary schools. This raises a number of questions related to the organisation of educational work in secondary schools and in higher education and in colleges. I think that this is a fundamentally different approach, and in this case a number of other organisational efforts will have to be made so that the intention of the law expressed through this text can be realized. Another important point I have is the transfer of responsibility to a student organisation. We need to know that in the student organisation, students from 14 years of age to adulthood and the transfer of responsibilities from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the student organisation in the way that is now proposed is very questionable from the point of view of responsibility. And here it seems to me that marriage should have great concern about whether such a solution in marriage is appropriate. And of course, at the end of the day, there may also be one confusion of the responsibility of law enforcement between the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Sport, because subsidising student nutrition is within the competence of one, while subsidising the diet of students and apprentices under another. If I may conclude. I am aware that student diet, or diaphragm, and the problem of nutrition of students and apprentices is extremely important during a very important development period. Of course, I do not want the decision we are about to make here to make a decision that we would not even be able to make. And, of course, the purpose of what is being expressed here in the objective would be to achieve even worse than it is today. Of course, I am committed to continuing the practice of increasing the resources intended to subsidise the diet of pupils and apprentices. And I think that through budget lines, supporting programmes in primary and secondary education can be traced. This is also the direction in which funds are increased in 2004 both for secondary school programmes and for student programmes. I would also like to see the proposal made by my fellow Member, Commissioner, who, in the debate and in the decision of the Education Committee, proposed that these funds be increased for 2004 and 2005 as well. In doing so, I would like the aid of subsidies to be linked to helping those who need it, and I believe that this is also one of the important criteria on which it is necessary to continue the practice as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Well, school youth and her health are also involved in school medicine. Each year, a set of data is uploaded to the Institute for Health Protection, which then submits a final report each year. I must say that in recent reports there is an interesting conclusion that, in fact, a primary school child in the fifth grade has been burdened daily in the adult category, but that the burden of a secondary school student has increased to 10 working hours a day. In the stress study, somehow different parameters are set for the schooling youth, especially at the front are poor relationships in school and at home low learning dynamics, poor learning methods, inadequate physical activity, or excessive physical activity, insufficient drinking of fluids, fear, school noise, inappropriate school spaces, excessive television viewing, etc. [[..]] Signs of youth fatigue are slow thinking, misunderstandings and attention during study, energy and will declines, restlessness, sleep disturbances and psychosomatic problems listed on the frequency scale. Fatigue also results largely from poor nutrition. I'd like to say it's not such a minor matter. Poor school outcomes and poor feeling and all those deviations of youth, deviating also in alcoholism, drugs, suicide, not to mention further, are certainly supported or caused by mental overwork.It is interesting to know that only 40% of schoolchildren eat breakfast regularly and that the eating habits of high school students are even worse. There's not a third of the students in high school who don't have breakfast. And if we are counting on the day’s burden there to be far in the afternoon, without a regular warm meal, and if the state is aware of it, then it is incomprehensible for me not to solve this problem. Incomprehensible! Of course, it is necessary to say here that this should be arranged in an appropriate way, however, that such a partial approach is not appropriate, that a systematic, long-term, integrated, always-integrative solution should be restored, gentlemen, I am sure that Tanko will withdraw his proposal at a time when a better proposal will come into the national assembly. [[...]] He did not write this proposal in order to gloat and shop with the proposal. No! No! I would ask that you, too, not take sides with the opposition just because it is the proposal of a member of the opposition. For this reason, I propose that we support it, to complement it properly - I also have proposals for complementing it - because this is not a small problem for our youth and, excuse me, for our future generation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Roman Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u171	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it would be wrong to follow the steps of some comparisons. I could also make a comparison of the possibility that instead of paying back for telecommunications deposits for three years, they could subsidise a complete diet or 130 years if they did not have a denationalisation law. But there's no problem. The problem is that the law, as proposed, does not really have those provisions that would allow for a clear picture of how the subsidies of the student and apprentice population or their diet would come about. In fact, a laudable word should be said on nutrition in kindergartens and primary schools, which is in fact based on Article 81 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, or this article gives them the opportunity to do so and is regulated at this point. Also one third, as we have heard, of primary school students are, in fact, subsidized under this law in some way. As in 1992 - and I can now boast after 12 years - together with Mr Wencle, the then Minister of Education, we put together this story, the subsidy of student diet, I can say that there was just an argument in the then Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it was necessary to subsidise everything, there was an argument that students should be separated generationally, because of their specific study, a greater part of life and work in university cities and of course the timetable they have. On the other hand, it seems to me that this is my personal assessment, but in some ways it seems to me to be morally controversial to work on a system that would make students and apprentices, a true generation from 14 to 18 years old, in some ways indirectly trying to feed on inn. I think the celian model is to open up some milk kitchen, okay, but a complete preview of the student diet subsidy doesn't seem smart at this point. Let me say one more thing, given that my better half is employed in one of Ljubljana's primary schools, she told me several times that I would like to show my parents and the public what food children do in primary schools. And of course, she thought negatively that schools provide food, but children mix with food and do not eat it in most cases. Let me re-emphasize. It is common to all of us that this needs to be settled, and here I fully agree with my colleague Diacia that, of course, it is necessary to arrange it in the way that he proposes. Or a complete story to change at this point, it is said, in this law, but above all I see the possibility and the desire to get rid of it with a special law, because of course we would define all these systemic things, who, when, what, how to do with a subsidy or a voucher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. According to my assessment, as of course there has been a solution to the subsidisation of student diet, it is also now ripe to talk about the topic of how to regulate the diet of students and apprentices as well. 10 years ago, or even more, things were mature and important to regulate student diet, and I am convinced that according to the competent authorities, who analyse and monitor the health of our students and place unhealthy diets of these children or young people in a very high place, that this also requires appropriate solutions. My fellow Member, Tanko, has proposed a solution, and I support it, and I am also, somehow, pleased that the Members of this assembly are ready to seek solutions. Now, of course, it would be appropriate to suggest a more appropriate solution if they rejected the solution offered. I will also listen with anticipation to the minister who is here today among us, what he proposes, and in what time frame he intends to resolve this. If, of course, this proposal of Parliamentary Tank's law launches a solution within a short period of time that follows its objectives and intentions, then I will also be pleased. However, it does not seem right to me that the solution is being rejected, the purpose welcomes, but it offers nothing else. And until anything else is offered in this assembly, of course I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u174	Mr. Jože Kavticnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Chairman. When I listen, perhaps others, when they listen, they would say that the only concern for children and students is that of the opposition. But that's not the case, because if that were the case, our education, and also our social, health, would be at a much lower level than today. So, organized nutrition in our schools is just one of many obligations that forms the mosaic of compulsory education. But it's not the most important thing, but it's very important. Slovenia has a particularly positive attitude towards education. Finally, we also show this in the budget. 7% of gross domestic product is earmarked for education, and this is comparable to developed countries in Europe. In all these years of renovating the school system, we have allocated funds for space, we have built many schools. We have provided conditions for good work in education and education. We've equipped schools. We gave the school content. Renovation of primary school, secondary school. Now we're giving a lot of money for research, for development. Of course, school food regulation is also in the turn. By 2002, we had resources in the budget for primary and secondary education together. After 2002, we separated the funds, and, of course, we also stressed the need for school meals for students to be arranged more appropriately than today. And it's done and done. But it can't be done overnight, and it can't be done on a whim. I understand, Comrade Tank, in this direction, that he wants to make the matter faster than it is. However, it is impossible for students to take 10 billion away from somewhere and give money to regulate school meals. When I look at this bill and I have not seen the right solution, I cannot support it, but I will support any further efforts to regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. And Mr. Janez Komljanec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think there's anyone here today who disagrees with the fact that we have the worst diet in high school. And it is also right that we are talking so thoroughly about this today, and I am sure that this debate will also contribute to the fact that this problem will begin to be resolved more quickly than ever before. There have been a lot of public debates on the environmental nutrition of young people lately, and I am sure that this will take place at some point in time as would be desirable and necessary. If we have this in kindergartens and primary schools and students satisfactorily regulated, I could point out that in primary schools this part of the diet is under-subsidized, that this is also a problem that is likely to have to be solved in parallel. However, it is also necessary for high school students from this point of view to drive more than 70%, that most of these children are without breakfast, and that there are no conditions to eat in inns, even if they want to. They have a schedule, and they have time for that. And it's probably essential to organise this meal in schools. And we know that in most cases there are no conditions. And that this is likely to not be improvised because of the sanitary inspection - especially the mayors here in Parliament know what the problems are in a few of the older primary schools where a meal is being prepared, when inspectors insisted on what needs to be done years ago if we want to provide these primary schools with this meal. This means that there is also a need to deal with these conditions in some way. I think it's very up to individual managers today to see how they're doing. Because sometimes it's better, sometimes it's very poorly arranged. For these drivers, this should be added that they must wait for their means of transport after the end of their course, for some to drive for an hour, even more to come home, and come to dinner rather than to lunch. Well, that's definitely got to be arranged. I think that it is necessary to regulate gradually so that this cannot be achieved in one step, that these conditions should also be established. It is said that not only financial resources but also the conditions for these apprentices and students to eat as we know it should be deeply thought of and arranged. And of course, as they imagine. In addition, I would like to add that this is probably not the only area that is deficient or malnourished. To meet here the problem of textbooks and work volumes in primary schools. And also by transport, by subsidized transport. So it is three areas that need to be raised in parallel to some level that will seem appropriate in this country to support, especially this social aspect of our children, so that parents are less burdened and that young people are healthier if I am doing so, especially for nutrition. That is why we have also this year - of course, the question is whether this budget will be a billion higher or not - we have also proposed an additional 2 billion for these three areas and something else for investment, right in secondary schools, in order to move faster towards the goal. And I think that these efforts should be made in the coming years and that appropriate legislation should regulate the nutrition of secondary schools. I am convinced that the intentions are true, that it is willing enough to adapt the resolution of the whole problem to the financial possibilities of our budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Minister will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u179	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! The financing of primary and secondary education in Slovenia is governed by the laws, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, Article 81 of which provides for co-financing of this diet by the State. In Slovenia, this is the moment - when we allocate about a billion 600 million tolls of food in primary schools for the operation of kitchens, thereby reducing the cost of eating for parents - the country by 23% of children [[The first one is for everyone who gets a meal at school.]] and additionally subsidizes the diet for adolescents. This is a standard that has been established since the times for which this Parliament, especially colleague Moga, has special merit since the school toll. Even after the school toll expired, the amount of these subsidies remained, and the government has retained these funds, all governments have kept these funds in this budget since then, and Parliament has reaffirmed this every year. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government is thinking about this, but not only is it thinking about how to secure a greater share of the funds and better manage the area of nutrition, especially secondary and primary school diets in Slovenia. This thinking is reflected in the 2004 draft budget and 2005 budget. There are 600 million additional tolls for this diet, which means a 45% increase in resources in 2004, according to the current situation in 2003. We intend to raise funds from these funds by about 50% for high school nutrition. We will also consider today's debate, and I hope that, after consulting the Education Committee of this Parliament, whether perhaps a large part of the funds would be allocated to the secondary population and a little less to primary school. It seems to us that these considerations are necessary and that they are the only possible way to build up a system for which, once again, we already have a legal basis. We also have a basis for further regulating this area by means of regulations. So many ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the Government, can be allocated this year to start upgrading this system at the beginning of 2004. I hope that if happiness is pleasant and the economic situation is appropriate, more resources can be allocated. It's my duty to try to speak real. I must remind all of us that this Parliament, at least I expect by the time it deals with the budget, will increase the means of transport by 20% in order to double the funds to help the weakest, socially weak ones in the school in nature and so on. We will try to allocate these funds there in the areas where they are most important. We believe that this increase is needed in 2004, if it were to be further raised in 2005, it would be so much better. This proves, however, no matter what has been said here, the social orientation of this government and also, ladies and gentlemen, of this Parliament. We prove this in real terms. In those areas where this can be covered financially. It is not possible to devote 10 billion to increased costs in the field of arms, 10 billion in transport, 10 billion in food, 10 billion in agriculture and so on, while at the same time believing that this country should be sustainable as required by public finances. There's so much I can say here on behalf of the government today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We have 20 minutes left, so I can open the debate in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Now we're going in order. Previously, Mrs. Tanko, Diaci, Petty Officer, Grandchild and Government applied. Every bad four minutes, because I know you won't fully respect these minutes and seconds. So, please, let's stick to this. Okay? Let's start with Mr. Tank.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am very pleased that everyone you have discussed understands this problem and is also in some way trying to understand my proposal. However, this debate has shown all the beauty, all the expense of our Slovenian politics. For the greatest praise, and most praise, is given to him who has not done enough in this field. And most critical of all, the one who prepared the matter and triggered the debate at all. I think it's about this perplexity that's happening in this House when we're talking about completely clear, unequivocal, screaming, and I don't know any other problems, and in the end we turn it all around and put it into something, I'd say a rejection. In such cases, one usually gets the feeling that these priorities only happen because the proposer who proposed something is not the right one. I'm just asking the Minister what would happen to this law if you proposed it, the one from his coalition. Let's say his deputy Germich, who was also the director. I think that the position of the Ministry on this issue and also on the coalition will be quite different. Like what happened with the Triglav National Park Act. A disastrous marriage, a disastrous proposal, an unsystematic, incomplete one, but there, without a problem, we move the hills and valleys, and then we get caught up in some of the little things that we can do without a problem - we all know so much about this procedure - to complement and repair. No problem. I think that the proposaler and the other Members are able to fix this proposal, which we are also able to correct. I have also warned myself, already in the debate on behalf of the Group of Members, that certain things need to be corrected. So we didn't, and I didn't shoot for a matter that says perfection. Secondly, I would like to point out that it is not acceptable for the same things to be called the diet of apprentices, students and students, to be saved in two different ways. All of them are about 9, 10 hours a day, but in the students we solve this with status, in the category of high school students, apprentices and students, we are supposed to solve this under some other criteria. I think that's unacceptable. Similar problems or the same problems with the same time constraints that arise in this process of education need to be addressed in the same way. It's all the same. After all, even when this high school student, whether he is an apprentice or a student, comes to work, to society, to practice, he is, after all, a warm meal. We're only giving him this opportunity at school. We can also ask ourselves where these students and students are now at lunchtime. Are they at the inn? Where can they buy lunch? At the inn, or perhaps at some grass they sit there, they hang out and talk. They won't take advantage of it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u182	Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I think I'm one of those people in this National Assembly when I remember what it's like to be a student and I don't know how the past is blurred. That is why I also know these matters relatively well, and as the first signed law on student food subsidies, I have been working on this matter for a long time in this Parliament and much longer. Even before the system was in place, I'm saying that I'm familiar with this system. Therefore, in my speech on behalf of the parliamentary group, I also referred to the points on which I stand and on which the future law on the subsidisation of the student diet should be based. Because if I put these things into this law, there are, we're going to have big problems, that's a fact. At the same time, this does not mean, as my fellow Member misunderstood me, that I do not allow these options. I allow it, too. Why not? But it's going to be a lot harder, and it's going to be a lot more impenetrable. Let me list these points again: Subsidisation of student meals is defined as the right to which all students are entitled, not as social assistance. Secondly, the diet should be carried out in the framework of school restaurants. Thirdly, define the student card, the distribution system of the vouchers. Within the framework of secondary schools, adequate infrastructure for the implementation of the system should be established. Let us define a transitional period, since actual diet will be implemented in such a way that, where this is not possible, this is regulated by delivery, which is, last but not least, possible in the context of student nutrition subsidies. Fifthly, the carrier of the student diet must be the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. This is a key issue for me, because now the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is the provider of student food subsidies. And that's why things fight. That's the main problem. But the next thing I want to point out is this. I think that if it were the will to also tear up these ten billion tolars needed to subsidise the student diet. I think that, as far as I have been looking at them in the budget, I think I am an economist, I think it would be quite easy to get them. It's one thing. When one of the Members, and I myself propose, I will say, from the line of the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Education, then 60% of this national assembly is simply stressed. She's shaking. I suggested, say, local community fellowship funds, because I took a 300 million-dollar fight from the Ministry of Defence, which was called ammunition. Who's backing who? I don't care who did it, but I know who didn't. I think I was alone when I supported myself. There's a bit of thinking to be done here. The truth of the matter is Minister Gaber, he must be acknowledged, one of those who actually drew attention to the problems of the defence budget in the light of the other items. That's a fact. Everybody knows that. I don't want to go to any other debates, any memberships and so on. Now we'll see. It is good that this topic has come now, and I am grateful to Mr Tank that he has also triggered this, because on Monday we will also deal with the budget a little bit, certain amendments will fall, and then, I hope to see my hands, because it will shift from defence to education. Let us also be courageous then. I will support this issue so that no one will misinterpret me, like my fellow Member. But once again, I'm underlining. I think it is wise - and I will also start to prepare or already prepare, I have already prepared certain issues, but this is complex matter - to define this in the new law on the subsidisation of the student diet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u184	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u185	Mr Diaca, I think that if we were to pass such a law now, we would certainly not have experienced a green light, because you have now been thrown out of the ruling coalition. And given how it happens when we make any proposals, there is no possibility of adoption. However, I think and I am optimistic that this whole debate will be a little confusing, a little shaken by the ruling coalition and will consider solutions. It is not pure in 10 billion, at least we could show some affection, at least in the direction of proper organization of diet in secondary schools; in some it is catastrophic. That at least they have the chance to have a proper break, a proper long break, and to get food. The Count Windisch-Gretz himself provided food for children who were far away and free of charge. However, I think that in the 21st century or the 3rd millennium in this country, which is somehow the product of a success story, we could ensure this, not just for 24% of children, but for a higher percentage. I.D.'s. It's easy to get IDs. Why not? No problem is to issue a student card at the time of entry. They already have them. This can be a credible document for the acquisition or consumption of food, a meal, for those who are, say, socially endangered or in any way set up a system. Or generally to everyone up to a certain height - that the contribution for each student or exemption for part of the pupils or apprentices is entirely. So, if we come out of this marriage, anything can happen if it's willful. Not if happiness is sweet - as he said from the ruling coalition. There's no need for happiness here. It takes a decision. You're talking about an economic situation. The economic situation is, at least as you have always said, good in our country is a success. If you can't guarantee it then something else is wrong - I don't know - if it's wrong. Diagnostic organisations are not suitable performers - I tell you that they are not - as are student organisations. Those who are candidates for food should not do so. Implementation, distribution, organisation of food should be in the hands of professionals. Otherwise, this must be done by the State or its public service. That's how we have a potential for abuse. So if this debate brings any results, I'll be happy. I reiterate my support for the law. We'd like to fill it up a little bit. If others truly have this will, then this law will also be added to suit our craftsmen, or children, students, and apprentices. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u187	Yeah, it's pretty short. That is all I would say, Mr Drobnič, even if I had made this law today, that it would actually be adopted for the reason that I have done things differently. I flew it in this way to offer co-proposal to all, to all, the parliamentary groups, before I passed the law. Everybody! Coalition and opposition. Even in this case, if that were the case, I think it would go through. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u188	Mr. Grandchild!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. I'd like to continue where my colleague Diaci left off earlier. He gave us professional reasons why this marriage seemed to be lacking. This is not the case - he did not say - that we will not, we will support him in the Young People's Party. That is also what we have told the proposer. We also warned him that it would be better if we passed a separate law and did not correct the existing Student Nutrition Act. As far as the food organisation is concerned. Like my colleague Diaca said, she needs to be organized after school. However, we know that this is not possible right now, or quickly. However, experience from student vouchers has taught us that since student vouchers have emerged, the offer has improved considerably and has become accessible. We believe this would be the case when the student vouchers are in effect. The market's doing its job. Here too, the offer would be substantially increased. Students would have the opportunity, despite the short time they have available to feed, to reach it. Until the conditions for the normal implementation of this work are regulated within the Ministry of Education. Students are now the only educational population that currently has no guarantee. I think it's imperative that this is handled. Neither would a financial asset be a problem. Sort of. If we stay at the military budget, we draw it out. We still have a government plane there that we can sell. The purchase from this title could already be allocated to the peaceful souls in this budget for these matters. So for next year, a financial part of this issue would also be provided. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much! And Dr. Gaber. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to begin, Mr. Tanko, with your answer. You ask: What would be the position of the government if the coalition filed this law? I would like to assure you that our position would be the same as that of the government today. The reason for that is simple. The problem of upgrading this diet system in secondary schools is in providing more resources. It's not a matter of marriage. We will be upgrading this system, even in 2004, without a new law. Discussions are now taking place on how to upgrade it, with the student organization and the directors’ associations. In doing so, we will also try to increase the percentage of those who will receive these subsidies. I - unlike my colleague Diacia - believe that it is more important for those who are most in need of food to provide this food first than to spend ten billion to all, including the children of those who have enough money, that we spend it. This is not the only need in this country. Only at school can I list them. For example, textbooks are also a very serious issue. If we really have so much money - colleague Diaca will probably agree that social adjustments must be made in such laws as we have in transport. In this direction, I propose that we all build up the system together. In order to upgrade the system, however, funds are needed in particular. At the moment, the government can do as much as it has suggested. That's the grade. 45% of the increase, ladies and gentlemen, is not a small increase. If you ask me, it's enough. My opinion is that we need more. But whether we can find these funds or not is another question. We all know that, both in position and in opposition, when we really take the budget into our hands. Of course, we are in a different rhetorical position to this issue. If these funds could be increased even in 2005, for example by an additional 15 % or 20%, they would be real, very successful steps. These are our real problems. 10 billion here, 10 billion there and 10 billion there somewhere else. This is not a conversation in which a person can remain without a bitter taste in the reality of the conversation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much! I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. The fact that the bill is suitable for further consideration will be decided in accordance with the course of the meeting today at 22.05. I'm breaking this agenda. In one minute we will continue with the proposal for a law on game and hunting. I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his participation in the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u193	Your Honor! I welcome the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE STRANGE AND HUNTING LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. With regard to this law, a group of 12 Members with the first-signed France Čebul requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to the draft law to further explain the bill. Mr. Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u194	Your Honor! I regret that no Minister of Agriculture has in the last eleven, twelve years, nor has any government been able to propose a law on savagery and hunting. It was therefore almost imperative that we approach this law in a different way. This is a group of Members following a previous broad debate and also correspondence with the Ministry of Agriculture. So after 1991, several laws were passed that significantly affect the area of game and hunting. The Environmental Protection Act provides that wild game is state property, the Forest Act is an intervention in the field of hunting and breeding planning, where the Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is designated as a carrier of planning. It further introduces new forms of plans, but does not abolish the previous ones, which stem from the law in force in 1976, namely the law on savagery and hunting. When we dealt with this law, we examined everything that is now in force in the country of the Republic of Slovenia and what is happening in other countries around us, especially in the countries of the European Union. The law takes into account all European directives in this field, as well as the international conventions signed and ratified by the Republic of Slovenia. It should be pointed out that the rule of law on game and hunting is not part of the European acquis or the uniform European legislation. Therefore, it was neither the subject of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Slovenia with the European Union nor the subject of the coordination of ours with the European acquis. The European Union represents the principle of subsidiarity in the field of game and hunting, which means that it does not unify legislation in this field, but leaves it to the Member States to regulate the area of savagery and hunting in the same way as best suited to their historical and traditional traditions and to their natural and cultural characteristics. The Member States of the European Union therefore have very different hunting laws and systems. In doing so, even within one country, for example France and Italy, there are several hunting systems. The second principle of the law focuses on the conservation, protection and sustainable use of wild game species by hunting and on improving their habitats. So, in ensuring the ecological, social and economic functions of the game and its living space. The basic solutions to the bill are: the game is state property; the hunting right belongs to the Republic of Slovenia, which also allocates it; the minimum hunting area is 2 000 hectares; the introduction of concessions for all fisheries awarded by the Republic of Slovenia; the Republic of Slovenia may maintain or establish fishing sites with special purpose, in particular with a view to maintaining and maintaining the natural habitats of the game, in particular endangered species in the characteristic environments of Slovenia. Let me draw attention to some of the key innovations brought by the draft law under consideration. The draft law introduces concessions to be paid by operators of hunting grounds as concessionaires to the State. The preferred beneficiaries of the concession are local communities, through which owners of agricultural and forestry land will also be paid in the form of indirect or direct benefits. The bill specifies the criteria for the creation, assessment and payment of damage to game. While the situation in this area is not critical, harmful cases are dealt with in agreement between the operator and the injured party. According to some assurances and data, only 1% of the harmful cases ended up in court. There are some problems with cross-border game, especially pigs in Prekmurje. That is why we believe that this model is suitable for the future. The bill clearly distinguishes two pillars of hunting, on the one hand unprofessional hunting, and on the other hand professional hunting or hunting for a particular purpose. The proposal is implemented by the Slovenian Institute of Forests as a public institution, which, through professional and transparent planning of wild activities, represents the interests of the country as owner of wildlings and the general public. I'm sorry. If I can combine that second part of 5 minutes, which is also reported at this same point, I would now take another 2 minutes, end up saving 3 minutes, because as a proponent I have twice reported after 5 minutes. No, no! Continue and subtract from that final time if you can. Time is reported. It's only divided into two parts. It could be 10 minutes once.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u195	Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u196	In our view, the bill is suitable for further consideration. We are aware that the text is likely to experience and it is right to experience some changes, improvements. The proposals have already been submitted and we are considering them. By the second reading, we will surely be able to reconcile a number of things. Some things probably aren't. What I cannot change, which would mean completely different solutions, are the starting points that I mentioned earlier. So that the game is state property and that the hunting right is the property of the State that the State grants. These are two things. There is something else that needs to be kept in the marriage. The other things are also possible in the discussion of corrections. We believe that it is necessary to maintain the law as we propose, which is conservative enough in the part that speaks about the conservation and protection of game and its living environment. At the same time, the law allows enough freedom for those who want to engage in hunting as one of the activities that are as old as mankind. The preservation and condition of our game is, according to many data, such that we can compare a peaceful soul with any European country. If the data is correct, even such solutions envy us. I am sure that the debate will be constructive and that we will seek even better common solutions and that we will not negotiate whether the law does or does not. After all, it is to be absurd to preserve some of the 76 solutions, that is, 1976, when it comes to a completely different economic, social and social environment where things were drawn up in some contexts. After all, the profession, the doctrine, at that time brought many new solutions. It is therefore necessary to adapt this law, not to destroy it in all its bases. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich! That's all I need to explain. The applicant shall have 10 minutes in the context of the first reading of the common time. It was not the first time that we had allowed the applicant, in such a case, to use the presentation at the beginning. Then, in the debate, he no longer had time at his disposal. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Environment and Space to Mr Janez Kopač. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The government has examined the draft law and adopted the opinion I am giving you below. This proposal was adopted by the government without a vote against. In such a way that this government opinion was inter-sectorally coordinated. I would like to say that, above all, from a professional point of view of nature conservation, the proposed arrangement is a good solution in the Government's view, as it regulates the definition of spatial units for the planning and execution of wild game in many surface-environmental areas, taking into account the ecological conditions and life needs of game. It is positive because the planning of wildlife operations at different levels, based on the biological and ecosystem requirements of individual species and characteristics of the ecosystem, is regulated in a comprehensive manner. It is positive because it stipulates that plans for hunting areas are produced by a public professional institution and provides for the close cooperation of nature-security services in the preparation and adoption of plans. The bill is positive because it fully regulates the achievement of the ecological function of the game and the care for a balanced relationship between the wild and other plant and animal species and man, and uses, as a starting point, that the game is under the direct care of the State. However, the Government has quite a few comments on this bill. First of all, it is important to clarify the concept of wild play and to bring it into line with the applicable legislation on the use of natural goods. It is important to note that the concept of game should be defined in such a way that it meets the requirements of European Union law. It is also important to note that individual plans for sustainable wildlife management should be included in forest management plans. We estimate that the proposed solution, which is inappropriate for sustainable wildlife management, is the tasks of concessionaires as a public service. The government opposes that. We also have a number of other comments. However, these are comments on the basis of which the Government notes that the proposed legal text provides a conceptual solution to the area of game and hunting. Individual solutions, which need to be legally and professionally verified and finalized, will be drafted by the Government in an amendment form and enforced in the further process of adopting the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Rokavec, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. In fact, the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that the competence of hunting in the intervention of the Ministry of Agriculture. That is why the Ministry of Agriculture also has a certain Secretary of State, which also covers hunting in addition to forestry, so I am protesting this way of working when the government, by order and by interference with liberal democracy, tries to determine its Minister of State and the power to achieve its objectives here in Parliament as well. That's why I strongly protest this way of working. Mr Anderlič, you are in a letter to the head of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to Mr Janez Podobnik of 5. 9. simply because you have warned that Master Franci Booth, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, has not yet submitted a law on hunting and game - admitted that the Ministry of Agriculture is a sector. In the subsequent procedure, in the government procedure, you balanced that today you have appointed Minister Kopač. I strongly protest, Madam President! This undermines our democracy and way of ruling in this coalition by the Liberal Democracy!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u201	Mr Rokavec, it is my duty to conduct this meeting in accordance with the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, mag. Franz Booth, Jože Sterling, mag. John the Ripper and Young Berginc. These are authorized persons. I still have an apology for the mags. Franca Buta, that the meeting of the National Assembly will not be able to take place because, at a visit to Slovenia, the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Rural Development of the Republic of Ireland, Joe Walsh, who will take over the Presidency of the European Union next year. Everything that takes place before the assembly shall be in accordance with the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. So, a presentation of the views of the members of the groups. First of all, the position of the New Slovenia Group, to the words of Mr Alojs Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u202	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! It started well, and it was encouraging, nothing at all. So if this were to happen in one of the European democratic countries, as an opposition Member, I am sure that the coalition would fall apart. But nothing will happen to us. That's a good thing you don't. Because the state could go bankrupt if something like this happened. Look, we have before us a law, a proposal for a law on savagery and hunting, which we call truly hunting in Novi Slovenija. After ten years and several different proposals, which conceptually did not differ, there was a group of wise men, I could say, somehow in the style of blue Solomon, and proposed a solution to this great problem called Slovenian hunting. What exactly are you suggesting? What you're suggesting is basically what we have today. Instead of the concept of social property, you introduce the concept of state property. The other doesn't change substantially. The change is that hunting organisations, hunting families will pay concessions after a new one instead of compensation to the state. The country has declared the game its property and therefore has the right to charge. But all those who maintain and feed the game are said to have nothing in store for the owners of agricultural land and forests. That's why I'm saying it's a law enforcement hunt. You have turned agricultural areas and forests into large pastures where the country will feed its wildlings and thus try to fill the state budget. Interestingly, the applicant did not present the financial consequences of this law in his proposal. As early as this morning, Mr Anderlič listened attentively to him in the debate on the amendment of the DARS law, to the motioners' description of the financial part of this law: 'as, perhaps, can't' and so on. But if you look at your introductory explanation, Mr Anderlič, then in the part where you talk about assessing the financial implications of the bill, you use descriptive terms such as: "that this law could have positive consequences for the state budget balance". At the same time, in the second paragraph, you say that the state will try to buy property in different types of current breeding grounds. If this is true, then such a law will also have certain consequences, I am sure that it can even have great consequences for the state budget, because it can make purchases of agricultural and forestry land in the current breeding grounds there is no cough. That's gonna cost a lot of money. If this thing is serious. The other thing that seems interesting is that you have shown different systems of hunting in European Union countries. It's a dominant hunting system, and you've made a suggestion to all of this, where the state behaves as a kingdom, as a king. Although we know that this system is outdated and that no country as such is using it anymore. Well, it is encouraging that you are prepared to correct this proposal of your law slightly, despite the letter of the Hunting Union of Slovenia to all hunting organisations, so that nothing can change, that the law must remain as proposed. I am very surprised that their members have been banned from contacting us, Members, if we do not know too much about hunting. But it's just a way of communicating in this country that doesn't change anything. As far as the law is concerned, this law, if it really wants to be European-oriented and if you want this law to please hunters, landowners and the country that has the right to regulate the area of hunting, then a number of articles in this law will have to be corrected. First, Article 4 will have to be corrected, namely the basic starting points for the operation and the carriers of the planning and operation of the game. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the owners of agricultural land and forests must be absolutely included in these projects. If you include owners of agricultural land and forests, then the whole content of the laws changes fundamentally conceptually. In Article 6, you are talking about hunting areas. We're surprised that you haven't assigned any functions to local communities anywhere in the law on such matters. Local communities are fundamentally aware of the best problems with wildlife in their areas and are also interested as local communities in making this area properly regulated. In Article 8, you are talking about hunting, the actual concept or arrangement that the smallest hunting ground would not be less than 2,000 hectares. Such arrangements - you have also presented them - in other countries of the European Union do not know. We know that hunting may also be smaller and that individuals, that is, natural persons, can also engage in hunting alongside the hunting organisation. In Article 13, you speak of plans for the operation of wild game and then of agricultural organisations. I think it's the only place in the law that the agricultural organization is mentioned. You are referring to the role of the applicant. Opinions don't mean anything. If you want these organizations to cooperate in a weighty, professional way, then you have to make a decision. At least what it is, they must be included in this procedure by consensus. Article 25 speaks of concession. If you agree that in Slovenia fishing can also be carried out by natural persons, owners of agricultural land and forests, it is necessary to correct both this Article and Article 26. I could list other articles. But, as I said before, it's about what the concept of marriage will be fully adopted. In such a concept, certain articles will then have to be corrected and supplemented with this possibility. A very interesting chapter is the prevention and recovery of damage from and to the wild. So this area has so far been the most widely discussed area in the public domain. For game on agricultural surfaces causes much damage. We know, however, that forests and agricultural areas cannot be processed simply for the purpose of sorting animals. But we're processing them for other purposes. It is therefore necessary to find an appropriate solution between what is further admissible damage in agricultural forests and land and what is what is actually to be recovered from the income generated by hunting. Here farmers hope that the damage recovery procedures will take place more quickly, more transparently, more easily. But, like the law says, you can't really expect that. These procedures are further complicated under this law. In Article 59, you even state that the applicant is injured. The damage to their agricultural areas must be done by personal data and the addresses on the notice board or published in a local manner. So it is not clear why such a procedure should be legalized. We know that in nature the damage caused by bears is caused by the damage caused by wild pigs to the damage caused by deer and deer. Most of the time because there is too much population, too many animals in a specific place.If local communities do not cooperate, then these problems will not be solved. Car damage - this solution, which you have enacted in Article 57, that the owner of the motor vehicle will have to prove that the game caused him damage, is actually unacceptable. I don't know how this is supposed to be proved. If he can't prove it, then he'll be carrying all the costs for the damage he's caused. Let me finish. In Novi Slovenija, for the reasons that I have listed, and especially for the reason that this law does not include and in any way does not take account of the owners of agricultural land and forests, we will not support and support such a rule of law in the first reading. I don't think such a feudal approach is suitable for regulating an area called wild farming and hunting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you for your words, Madam President, colleagues, colleagues and distinguished representatives of the government! The Minister has left. In the parliamentary group we receive daily written, telephone and personal letters, recommending how some advocate that this proposal is good, others oppose it, show that it is bad, that it will go to the detriment of others and others. It is clear from all these comments that there is a conflict of interest, a conflict between those, especially landowners, including forests, and on the other hand the basic interest of the State. We believe that wildlings are a natural resource. Thank God Slovenia is rich about these natural treasures, as far as savages are concerned. Unfortunately for some others, however, there is less. On the other hand, in the Group of Members we think it is right, I will not say for the last time that we will get a modern hunting law that will regulate all these matters as planned. In doing so, it is clear to us that the text of this law will improve in the second reading with the amendment. For we believe that the law is modern - day. However, if we were to write a law on the skin of the 130s, we believe that the nobles plus the church, which has over 2,000 hectares of forests, would own it, then we would have returned more than 100 years ago at the time of the distribution of the feuds, where the townspeople and the feudalists had all rights. On the other hand, it is not possible to take advantage of the right to each of their hunting grounds or their property to fence with fences. Then what would our country of Slovenia look like if everyone looked over their fence, not to say fences? We therefore believe that it is right that natural wealth is the property of the State and that the State will take care of its natural resources. Therefore, they must be placed in management by neutral institutions. In this case, it is a forest institution. On the other hand, hunters as citizens with such examination are certainly those called who will be able to take care of the game and regulate the correct shot. With regard to concessions, let us also address in the article the problems we are facing. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The hunting law is one of the oldest that is still in force. It was adopted in 1976. Whatever we think of him, this law, like some others adopted during that period, well settled the issue of ensuring the ecological, social and economic functions of the game. It has ensured that it has been managed with due diligence and that, in an appropriate manner, the care of game, which includes the conservation, protection and hunting of game, could equally involve a large circle of citizens, adequately trained and organised to carry out these tasks through a hunting organisation. However, the changed ownership relationship established after independence raises more or less questions about certain existing solutions. We therefore agree that certain amendments to the management and management of game are necessary. We do not agree, however, that all the good solutions so far are discarded and that everything is subordinated to the interests of the new ambassadors who have acquired large areas of forests through denationalisation. Their demand is that the game is no longer state property, but no one's property belonging to the owner of the forest in which the animal is currently located. That the game is no longer managed by hunting families who are qualified to carry out these tasks, as all hunters must have a hunting test. They must take care of the game with voluntary work, and all the incomes of the hunting family must be invested back in the hunting ground. However, the game is managed by landowners in accordance with their commercial interests, but not in accordance with the interests of conservation and protection of game. These are just questions that have been a stumbling block to hunting law for decades. Let us also remember how the forest law has debated how and how to establish the ecological and social function of forests. Or leave all forest management issues only to the owner and their interests. Not only in terms of linkage and deforestation, but all the way to the right to prohibit the passage through private property and until the ban in the private forest is put in place to collect forest fruits. We have successfully resisted such extreme demands. The introduced wild and hunting law, which we have also signed by some Members of the United List of Social Democrats, has the same purpose. The law does not deny the existence of private property over the forest or the rights that forest owners are supposed to enjoy on this basis. If this may not be sufficiently established in certain parts of the law, we are prepared to do so in further stages of the adoption of the law, both with regard to the possibility of involvement in organised wildlife care, with regard to the right to compensation for damage, as well as with regard to the right to work of the concession, unless they participate in the management of the hunting grounds. However, we are convinced that the game must remain state property, that the State must have the right to grant concessions, that the beneficiaries of the concession must be primarily qualified hunting organisations, which are organised and trained to take care of the game. Therefore, the demands of several ten forest commissioners to organise the hunt only as their own economic activity are not acceptable. So it's not about any ideological issues that he wants to show up on. The question is: Do we want to continue to provide for wildlings in an organised and socially oriented manner, or are we also prepared to leave this important function only to the owners and the interests of capital? We are in the Consolidated List of Social Democrats for the Comprehensive Realisation of Wildlife Management, for all its ecological, social and economic functions. However, only the interests of forest owners cannot guarantee this. That is why we support the proposed law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam President. The law we have before us actually had a very long way to go. There have been a number of attempts to prepare him, to remove him, to do something of their own. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the law we have before us is good. Maybe we'll need some repairs. However, it is basically this law that actually ensures a sonar management of the wild and its living space. Unlike this law, we can see what happened to the Slovenian forests that were owned, or re-owned, or even owned, by some who never owned it, or fooled by what happened to these forests. There's a lot of nudity going on. Natural growth is being destroyed. It also destroys the ecosystem in which this wildling is found. Surely we cannot agree that the hunting law would also have done something similar to what the Constitutional Court did to the forests, when it prevented a referendum from being carried out that could not have capitalist forest owners with endless surfaces, and when they came into the hands of those who never had those forests, including the surfaces of national parks. In the Slovenian National Party, we are not in favour of the hunting of various Countish hunting grounds, where the only thing that would happen is that in the short time that the game would pass from one end to another, for example, forests to the other end of the forest, some gentlemen would shoot for their pleasure anything that would run through their land at that moment. I don't think the fragmentation of the hunting ground belongs anywhere. This is also said by cases from abroad. There are quite a few cases from abroad where relevant experts from European countries have responded with great appreciation to the situation in Slovenian forests as regards hunting and game and breeding grounds for game. I wouldn't say that. I'd even say they're a little jealous of what we have here. Therefore, we are not in favour of change in the Slovenian National Party. We're in charge of regulating certain things that need to be settled for sure. Maybe it's something like that that's good. Also in this law, article 55, paragraph 7, states: "The damage caused by game to domestic animals is considered to be a reduction or loss of value of damaged or damaged domestic animals." So far, this compensation has been tremendously high, so that some farmers have even carried out killing their own sheep and then attributed it to bears, because a sheep killed by a bear has been estimated four times as much as that sheep threw in the open market if the owner sold it. There weren't enough of these cases. That's not gonna be possible with this law now. That's right. It's just a matter that needs to be settled. However, it is certainly necessary to clarify one thing in Article 57, paragraph 4. Because it says, "For all the damage to a game caused by a moving motor vehicle, the owner of the vehicle is responsible unless he proves that it was caused by the controller." Let it be written that it was caused by a controller or a catcher or a motor vehicle. They're both controllers. It would make sense to determine who he is, for otherwise the article makes no sense. Perhaps it would be good to consider that after all, it is not always the fault of a wildling driver. One more thing would make sense. It would also make sense to regulate the status of falcons legally. I'm sure it's part of this law. I think it would make sense for the proposal to regulate falsification in this law to be taken into account. This proposal will be submitted by the Slovenian National Party in an amendment form. And we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Wildlife and Hunting Act is a very important law because it practically regulates the use of space to over 75% of our country. In fact, they mean forests and agricultural areas representing fisheries. It intervenes in the interests of as many as 22,000 hunters, as well as more than 300,000 landowners and all other users of the space: mountaineers, campers, hikers and all those moving in the space. I think that this fact, and this is also the opinion of our parliamentary group, should be taken into account in the drafting of a law that deals with such an important subject as the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are also aware that something needs to be done in this area. Appropriate legislation should be adopted. We are convinced that the 1976 law survived and that it does not conform to today's social order in the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, it does not comply with the new constitutional provisions stressing the use of property to such an extent and in such a form as to ensure its economic, social and environmental function. This ownership is also one of the fundamental issues which is deliberately or unintentionally ignored in this proposal, and therefore there are so many serious conflicts of interest that are not a good way to adopt such a law to enforce such a law. In our opinion, such a law is not good for hunters or for all who live in hunting and hunting. We are sure of that. On the other hand, we agree with the basic concepts. We differ only with regard to the greater enforcement of landowners' rights and forests, for which the legislator should find more obedience in the above-mentioned proposal. As I have already said, we are surprised and regrettably have found that the principle of ownership was not sufficiently taken into account by the proposer in the drafting of the law. The law is still based, in our view, on the incomplete disregard of private property and the rights that go away from it. Every such law, once again, is not good for anyone in our opinion, but at least for hunters and for our concern to preserve the diversity and abundance of game as a natural resource in our forests. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the draft law does not sufficiently highlight the role of the local community in the planned distribution of concessions and, in particular, in planning the conservation of development and wildlife management. You've completely overlooked the local community, your well-respected proponents. I think this is a very serious flaw in this law, which is likely to be rectified. The law does not specify to what extent the local community will be involved, if you wish, as a representative of the ownership interests of all small owners in the distribution of concessions. However, as I have already said, all private owners and their participation in concessions are completely ignored. It is disputed that the proposal for a law in such a form, without such additions, provides for state revenues exclusively on the basis of title and also on the basis of private property. In our view, the proposal does not aim at implementing the constitutional provision that the country should take care of the economic, cultural and social progress of the population in areas with limited areas in mountain and hill areas. The draft law does not provide ways and does not provide for a fair economic valuation and the possibility of providing compensation when it comes to conduct that is in the interest of the public interest. Here we mean mainly compensation for damage caused by hunting or damage caused by game. In our deep conviction, all the provisions on the recovery of damage after the wild are totally inadequate because they do not take into account the actual situation. They don't take into account the actual situation! We are witnessing that, after the implementation of the Law on Forests and after 1993, when the principle of planning, hunting and farming planning under the Law on Forests began to be applied to us, there was a lot of unpleasant, unwelcome developments in this area. That, because of such a way of planning, hunting families that are no longer able to pay compensation for damage to game under such conditions of operation in the current situation. At the same time, they do not have the option to influence and regulate the shooting where there are too many populations. In the fact that we support the principle that wild game is a state property, that hunting right is granted by the State, that this hunting right is granted primarily to hunting families organised in the framework of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, and that also through the hunting families, according to our belief, at least to some extent ensures local interest, even if these hunting families are mainly made up of domestic hunters if these hunting families and the conditions in these hunting families have been preserved in some of the bearable measures that have not gone too far in the direction of elitism because of these facts we are convinced that such hunting law would be enacted. Then the greater role of the local community and the ownership right of owners, which would suggest otherwise, would then be a good basis for our continued wildlife management and, above all, such a law would be good for hunters. However, in the event that any of these articles are excluded or explicitly ignored, which is currently reflected in this legislative proposal, such a legislative proposal will not be a good one. It will not be good and we cannot accept it in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also oppose the proliferation and further enforcement of hunting grounds with a special purpose, state hunting grounds. In the past, there has been injustice for individual hunting families and, above all, the introduction of national hunting grounds has greatly subordinated individual local areas where it is impossible for people to engage in hunting activities in their own areas. I am convinced that, even with such fishing, with appropriate professional supervision, which also needs to be regulated in the field of planning, they can manage the hunting families properly and appropriately. It is totally unacceptable for us, however, that you have written down by the applicants in the bill to continue to grant concessions for these fisheries without an appropriate invitation to tender. That's not right. We advocate that the right to hunt is the most accessible right for our citizens who have an interest in hunting. This right is irrefutablely distorted by such State hunting. Convinced also that the bill does not adequately address the issue of the management of the public service in the field of game and hunting. I do not think that the forest office, in such a form and as such without the involvement of civil society organisations, is sufficient and the basis for the planning and management of this so important public service. However, I think that, with the involvement of the local community, with the involvement of the civil public, with appropriate expertise, something should also be done and, in particular, immediately on the number of game-hunting game, which must be brought into line with the possibility of eating, with the possibility of staying, and not least with the need for forest management and other agricultural processing areas. It is essential for us that where hunting grounds are intertwined and cross with processing areas, the game is kept at a level permitted by the environment in which we have this game. So that the interests of the State and the local communities, which we encourage and strive to preserve the processing and settlement of these areas by excessive or already unsustainable wildlife stocks, on the other hand, do not cross. The size of the population must by no means exceed the biological capacity of forests and hunting grounds other than agricultural areas. It is necessary to maintain the natural regulation of populations and to maintain the health strength of these animal populations, which I think can be carried out exclusively, once again, only in the light of all the stakeholders affected by the Wildlife and Hunting Act. Otherwise, if one of the segments continues to be in a subordinate position, we will not be able to talk about the normal conduct of the game, the normal conduct of the game. On the basis of all of this, the government has finally found this in its proposal, and we are convinced that this bill is unsystematic in several places, that it is ambiguous and unclear in several places. Therefore, if there are no systemic amendments to the bill, the system of amendments involving, as I have already said, both local communities and the proper treatment of landowners, small and large, we will not support such a legal proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The basic concept is close to us, but it needs to be refined and corrected in particular, as I have already said, with these two emphasiss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, including a nice greeting to the interested public on the balcony, who listens to this important debate today. In our parliamentary group, we reject the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting put into the legislative process by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Anton Anderlić for the following reasons. The first thing is, marriage is poorly prepared, poorly explained. The opinion given to this law by the Government is the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is not the opinion of the Ministry responsible for the regulation of the field of hunting. So, what are these reasons? The applicants did not take into account property, even neglecting the owners of agricultural land and forests, both in state and private ownership. They've completely bypassed and ruled out local communities. The proposed law does not solve the issue of the damage caused by game on agricultural land and forests. The bill does not regulate the status of falsification as a form of hunting that is currently regulated by a decision of the Ministry of Agriculture. This matter has already been mentioned by a colleague from the National Party. Unfortunately, the past 50 years have also left some dark and powerful systems that are in different environments that are disruptive. We can assess that this proposal is re-legislative and confers privileges on certain individual entities. Colleagues and colleagues, those of us who have been in the National Assembly for a long time know that preparation for this law is very long. There were quite a few candidates, and finally this law came to the government where it began to prepare. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and the hunting organisation have coordinated the bill for more than two years and have been on track. It was only a matter of time before the Ministry would submit a coordinated proposal into the legal procedure. A group of our colleagues have tabled in the procedure an uncoordinated proposal for a law granting privileges to certain entities. This, of course, destroyed the work invested in the Ministry and reselled landowners, local communities and hunting organisations. Before, colleagues and colleagues, I am trying to briefly explain these shortcomings, and I would like to point out and highlight the importance and organisation of fishing in space. Hunting families do important work in terms of the cultivation of indigenous species of game. They strive to inhabit extinct indigenous species and preserve rare indigenous species of game with their professional work. We can also see that professional competence in hunting families is good. Companies are well organized and a lot of free or voluntary work is invested. This work is seen in the construction of roads, hunting routes and hunting devices. Cooperation with professional and scientific organisations with a view to the professional cultivation of game and the application of the latest knowledge of cultivation is also important. All of this has undoubtedly contributed to the reputation of Slovenian hunting, both at home and in Europe and in the world. We are convinced that a consensus among all stakeholders is needed to continue the successful work in the field of hunting. Our parliamentary group disagrees with the concept of this bill, so we propose that the new proposal address the issue of hunting rights. Landowners have or do not have hunting rights on their land following this proposal. They are not entitled to compensation for the pursuit of hunting activities. Here comes the property issue. The bill even requires landowners to protect their lands from damage caused by game. We see this as some kind of co-financing of hunting activity. The bill does not solve the damage caused by game on agricultural and forest surfaces. The law is supposed to be ecologically oriented, but it allows for an abnormally large number of forest youth. It is stated that up to 40% of the individual plant is allowed to be eaten as a single plant up to 75%. Interestingly, only up to 20% are allowed by German law. With such a solution, the forest will be designed only for the cultivation of game. Hunting also has an important share in Slovenian tourism. We are therefore convinced that the local community must also participate in these issues, in terms of obtaining hunting concessions and regulating infrastructure. We are convinced that the law should also allow for the hunting of birds by bites for certain species of game, in accordance with the aforementioned regulation or regulation on falcons issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Colleagues and colleagues! As many open questions as there are in this law, there is no good way to implement the law. Given the importance of hunting, in both economic, nature and scientific terms, it is essential that we adopt the law after harmonisation between stakeholders. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not support this law. I would warn, colleagues and colleagues, of the fact that laws here in this house are being forcefully adopted, usually end badly. They end up at a referendum where you know that the National Assembly hasn't actually gotten one yet. And I would really suggest that we make this effort, continue our work there in Vienna and come up with a coordinated proposal. As Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, I have also received a lot of letters, various recommendations. And, the distinguished gentleman of the Hunting Union of Slovenia wrote to his hunting comrades, elders and presidents of hunting families, saying an emotional and deep thought full letter on both sides. I'm just going to read the part that's written in the oil press and it's even sub-marked. This is the case: in particular, I would like to point out that it is not acceptable that any comments on the law of hunters, hunting families or regional associations of hunting families would attempt to enforce outside the Hunting Union of Slovenia, for example directly through individual political parties or Members, as this would weaken the position of the hunting organisation as a whole, and in particular would severely jeopardise the support of the law and would make the hunting organisation a non-unit organization that cannot be entrusted with wildlife management. To this end, please alert all your members. I have quite a few colleagues among hunters who disagree. But they're ready to talk. After all, we are mentioned here by political parties as if we are not able to decide these matters. But it was my colleagues from three political parties who put it in. So, or only part of the political parties is not suitable for such questions. I think that, therefore, in our Group of Members, it is in our great interest that these issues really be settled. We're buried on some barricades, if I say so, but if this is how we're going to adopt the law, I've heard that voices are enough, after what's said is a bad journey for the implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Young Slovenia Party will be presented to us by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you for your words and assistance, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Young Slovenia, we agree with the proposers that it is necessary to take a step forward in the field of hunting in Slovenia, in particular in accordance with the legislation already adopted in this area. In particular, towards a more ecological and sustainable co-natural regulation of fisheries in Slovenia. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we estimate that it is high time for Slovenia to get a new hunting law and it is almost unbelievable that it has not been prepared by the competent ministry in all this time. We are aware that hunting must be an increasingly natural protection activity, as the regulation of the number of the animal world by hunting is only permissible for the purpose of ensuring the natural balance between the environment and the wild. In the view of the Young Slovenia Party, therefore, hunting is particularly justified in regulating the natural balance between species and between animals and the other environment, which, as in a number of other areas, has been disrupted by no one but man. The abandonment of hunting, which has already been taken up in Slovenia by individual civil movements, would be a disaster in such a changed environment, first for wildlings and, consequently, for human beings. However, it is most unacceptable to allow such a hunt that individuals use for personal pleasures to prove elitism. In short, completely without and completely contrary to all the nature-protection objectives. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that killing wildlings cannot be, and cannot be, the public interest. However, the fact that a new law must be incorporated is respect for the owners of the land on which wild animals are kept, have shelter, or have their habitat, in short, live there. It is our belief that landowners must therefore receive an appropriate share of concessional compensation and an absolute compensation for the damage caused by the game on their property. Landowners must also have the necessary ratings in the integration into hunting organisations and in the implementation of fishing. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that the game is owned by the country and that the country grants concessions. The search for possible positive economic effects by the State, in terms of high concession compensation, is unrealistic. The costs of managing hunting grounds, as shown by the financial reports, professional hunting grounds in our country, are rising rapidly each year and are barely positive. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we note the extreme caution in determining concession compensations which, in the event of unrealistic high concessions, may mean the collapse of the system of hunting families which have left the hunting ground in spite of all the good conditions. In this place it is necessary to commend Slovenian hunters who, in the past in this area, have sacrificed themselves to the fact that Slovenian game, despite the enormous environmental and other burdens, is still present in our forests, numerous and diverse. In addition to these tasks, hunters have also carried out many others, for the environment, extremely important and natural protection actions. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the term that savages owned by the State are also necessary for the State to take responsible care of this fact and to protect this good from the various influences that threaten their survival, in particular with the aim of preserving and ensuring the diversity of the game in the Slovenian territory. That is why we fully support the already introduced system of hunting and breeding planning, which has emerged under the forest law and has already been well established in practice in recent years. Only a professional, independent and human resources-trained institution such as the Slovenian Forest Institute can impartially and professionally carry out the planning and monitoring of the implementation of the actions of the fisheries managers. We also propose that this very public institution, which is already territorially organised throughout the territory of Slovenia, will also be able to manage all the hunting grounds with a special purpose, i.e. so-called breeding hunting grounds, including Triglav breeding grounds, with which the Triglav National Park is very machete-based. We believe that the area of damage needs to be specially processed and assessed and fully left to the professional and neutral institution. The solution set out in the proposal is not appropriate according to our assessment. We propose that this area also be fully covered by a forest institution which has qualified staff and is, as has already been said, an impartial state institution. In the Party of Young Slovenia we estimate that the law is good mainly in the light of the fact that the procedure on the substantive side begins. We therefore propose that it be complemented and amended in the following areas. With regard to the size of the fisheries, we believe that the area should be reduced from 2,000 hectares to 1,000 hectares. Furthermore, the establishment of hunting grounds with a special purpose should be solely and solely with a view to maintaining and maintaining the natural habitats of game, in particular endangered species. Farmers and forest owners should also participate in the organisation of hunting activities. Where there is an interest in the organisation of hunting activities by farmers and forest owners, they must also be professionally qualified to do so, or they must ensure that they carry out their professional hunting activities or are adequately trained. When organising hunting activities in an area, farmers and forest owners meeting professional standards must take precedence over other organisations having an interest in the pursuit of hunting activities in the same area. Thus, game management must be in line with the comprehensive planning of professional institutions, taking into account the knowledge and experience of farmers and foresters, who are both hunters and best knowers and natural system maintenanceers as a whole. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we expect the proposer to take our comments today into account when preparing the law for second reading. Today, as I mentioned, we will support him at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also see this law on hunting and game as a law that touches on the area of relation to civilizational acquisitions. That is why this law is very important. In fact, it touches on the civilisational gains that citizens and citizens of Slovenia have and are used to. It is also at first sight perhaps a simple matter, such as freedom to walk into the woods, freedom in limited quantities to gather mushrooms. For we are not used to being caught among some of the inscriptions "prohibited passage", "private property", "the violators will be punished". This law therefore deals with important blocks covering the relation to the ecological function of forests and game, as well as to the social function of forests and hunting. A humane, sonar attitude toward animals has been incorporated into the marriage. The law also provides a basis for a reasonable economic function of hunting with its meaning, both domestic and foreign tourism. And the law also involves a responsible attitude towards one of the largest and most important social organisations in our country, i.e. the hunting union of which about 22,000 members has done much in the past to make high-level hunting in Slovenia. We believe, of course, that there is an in place, a realistic approach to respect for the results, to achieve what has been achieved, including a critical assessment of those things that are to be improved in the future. The law also provides, of course, among other important categories, for the payment of compensation, for the burden of concession, as a very important constitutional element of this law. In the presentation of the Group's position, I would like to be brief and focus on one of the most important issues, this is the issue of ownership, because individual thought finance is very important here. Our view is that modern countries have abandoned some category of absolute property inviolability. We need to make that clear. Even the Slovenian state, especially if we look at paragraphs 33 of the Constitution and 67 of the Constitution, is one of the countries which has such a modern view of this category. In fact, Article 67 of the Constitution clearly defines the functional principle of ownership, its content and its considerations. The way property is acquired and consumed therefore ensures its economic, social and environmental function. Natural resources and natural resources include wild game animals, and Article 70 of the Constitution provides that the law lays down the conditions under which these natural resources may be exploited. Thus, the implementation of constitutional principles has already been made, this is the 1993 Environmental Protection Act, which provides in Article 17 that natural resources, such as water, mineral raw materials, wild game animals and fish, are the property of the Republic, are state property. In our view, the constitutional principles adopted by this law also apply to the writing and complementing of the new hunting law. The acquisition and use of property on land and forests should therefore not jeopardise the ecological functions of the forest. If we have a bit of a problem, of course we know the position of the beneficiary forest owners' association, but we are convinced that full compliance with these principles would have led to a cycle of time of 154 years ago. Indeed, almost nothing has changed since the Imperial patent of the Austrian monarchy. Therefore, we will insist, taking into account all the useful proposals, on the principle that social states do not practice an absolute category of property which has also recognised to the land owner, for example, property on minerals and everything on the ground and beneath it. With regard to the European view on these issues, the following. The ownership concept of the Slovenian Constitution in the accession process to the European Union has never been disputed. You could say it the other way around. Article 259 of the Treaty establishing the European Community specifically provides that this European Association Treaty shall in no way affect the property law of the Member States. Accordingly, it was not the subject of negotiations either, so the Slovenian decision on the ownership of wild animals was not the subject of negotiations. Of course, we agree with the proposals that the interests and the role of landowners must be taken into account to the maximum extent possible, while, of course, we must be aware that forests are today a fairly solid habitat. Today the property is owned by about 450,000 owners. Of these 450,000 are only 123 according to our data of those who own over 100 hectares of forest, that is about 03 mills of owners. It is also important that the analysis shows that in Slovenia, without a change of constitution, no law on hunting can be drawn up based on the absolute ownership of land. In this regard, it seems important to us to find that 40% of the hunters are farmers. It is said that the issue under consideration has been quite widely examined and, therefore, according to our information in the law, the proposed solutions enjoy quite broad support and are in the public interest. As regards the coordination of interests, the use of space and the protection of nature in relation to hunting, I would say the following. In Slovenia today, it is quite successful in the context of the annual hunting communication plans, which may not have been here to the extent that everyone wants it together. However, public discussions on the proposed plans are taking place within the framework of the Forestry Office and each of the landowners has the possibility of communicating with civil society organisations now and, of course, we will try to strengthen this possibility by participating in the discussions and making comments. Therefore, while we are aware of all the minorities or important issues that still need to be finalized in this law, while preserving the basic solutions of this law in the parliamentary group, we support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the groups of Members, and this is followed by a general debate between Members and Members. First, in exchange for my colleague, Petty Officer, I give the floor to Dr. Joseph Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I listened to this discussion as a hunter, but I need to ask myself right away who's making fun of who. So many things that have been said don't even hold up and are very nice words, because in the end I'm going to say why I think it is. However, let me say that this law, I don't know what attempt to make things right, and if I remember correctly, it was years ago when Parliament was before Ivan Oman, submitted its proposal for a law, but it didn't come anywhere. Why not, because that civil society, which is called hunting or whatever, absolutely sabotaged this matter. Okay, well, I'm with Mr Oman and I don't agree on a lot of things, but he was right and he knew something about hunting, but I certainly agree. It is said here that the adoption of the new law is necessary, because the non-conformity of the social property regime of the wildlife or game hunting and management of hunting grounds with the Constitution must be abolished. The bill is intended to be in line with the Constitution of our country, in particular with regard to the provisions on property relations, natural wealth, natural sights and rareness, and with provisions governing the situation between the State and local self-government. So this proposal is supposed to be in line with the Constitution. I'd like to know how. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in its Article 33, guarantees the right to private property and Article 67 provides that the way in which property is acquired and consumed is such that only its economic, social and environmental function is ensured. Well, then the lecturer talks about subsidiarity, and this is the first time I've heard that the government, or coalition parties, advocate subsidiarity. According to the proposalers, it should not be true that in Europe only such a hunting regime is possible, in which hunting rights come from land ownership. In doing so, of course, the applicant is concerned with a conflict. Look at Austria, Germany and so on. Already in the 1935 Act, it was stipulated that hunting rights were combined with land-ownership rights and belonged to the landowner who had to enforce them and used them only in accordance with the provisions of this Act. Well, it also occurred to me when I heard the word grandiose and so on and so forth. Hunting rights, as a real right and the right to exercise this right, are thus not the same concept, since hunting rights are always and only for the owner of the land, while the exercise of hunting rights is a privileged occupation right. However, in the interest of a smart economy and the exploitation of hunting, the independent exercise of hunting rights by landowners has also been limited. Thus, it had to meet certain conditions, at least 200 hectares of uninterrupted land, for its own hunting grounds, all other land which had not been thus cleared as its own land has been merged into municipal land. Where the landowner himself was unable to exercise hunting rights, the law granted him a proportionate compensation. This was the so-called old law, from an age that was not civil in accordance with civilization, as some people understand today. So we can see that this law from those years ago, namely the 35 hunting law, is in line with the current constitution, by stressing the right to private property, by inseparably linking the right to hunting with ownership rights on land, while also stressing the economic importance of exploiting hunting with the conditions for acquiring their own fishing grounds or pooling fishing grounds into municipal hunting grounds. Regrettably, the regime so far is in line with the direction of a non-democratic regime where the state did not allow private property and was all property of society. I'm not gonna go into some things that have already been said, but let me just mention this. What a problem the car owners will have under this law, because they will have to prove it wasn't his fault, but the animal is responsible for the accident, and I don't know how to do it. Unless hunting families teach wildlings how to behave by cars. Some of the provisions, however, are too harsh and loose, as is the case: Article 33/4 prohibits the laying of birds and the laying down of young birds between 1 March and 1 August to destroy living borders, to heal, shrubs and dry areas. If I understand correctly, then it will not be allowed to cut a living limit in the countryside, in front of their own home, because they then nest the birds, even though they have no nest in the living border. Maybe I don't understand this article and someone will be able to explain it to me. Furthermore, Article 35 prohibits the disturbance of wildlings in peaceful zones, in growth sites, nests, latrines, winter resorts, etc., in the forest and feeding grounds and to stalk them in unfavourable weather conditions. Now, the question. Is it just a walk along the forest trails leading past the winter grounds? So who's gonna decide when it's upsetting? These are just the little things I want to warn you about. Of course, the proposed law puts both hunters' interests and the interests of game interests at the forefront of the proposed law because it completely ignores the interests of landowners and their property rights because it does not provide for any compensation for hunting on their land. This is demonstrated by Article 29.6 of this Law on Wildlife and Hunting, which speaks of the purpose or non-use of the concession. When a person reads this law, it comes to a conclusion, like our client, Nova Slovenija, that we will not vote in favour of this law at first reading, because he takes the right to hunt the landowner. That means we're going back to socialism. So we're going back to the rit instead of moving on. Let me say one more thing. The reform of hunting should also make something definitive for the reform of hunting societies. We all know - and it would be foolish to paint here - that hunting families are always in the hands of the regime or government and these hunting families were actually a circle that could not be reached unless you were a matchmaker or a friend. That's true, because I had cases like this in my own family. They were monopolies, they were monopolies today. And if the state won't handle it, then we're where we were. In fact, we are not moving forward and will not help ourselves with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to my colleague, Janko Webr. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. The Law on Wildlife and Hunting is certainly one of those for whom it is right that it has come to order and that it is dealt with in the National Assembly. I might draw my own attention to some things that may still need to be completed. In fact, in the area of compensation for concessions, it seems to me that the law is somewhat too generous and it would be better to focus on the specific problems arising from the harmonisation of the various interests in the space, mainly because of the damage caused by the game. In fact, the law provides for local communities to receive compensation for concessions. Although the law does not state what this compensation should be for, it is clear from both the presentation and some comments that these compensations are intended to be paid for damages. This is an entirely unnecessary procedure and an additional complication of the procedures necessary to ensure that someone entitled to compensation also reaches these funds. The local communities have nothing to do with hunting and game, but to participate in the adoption of hunting and breeding plans in the world of the institution with their representative in the treatment and, of course, in the adoption of such plans. It does not claim that there are more representatives of local communities than hunters, because the statutes of the regional units of the forest institution determine the composition of this world and that it is a representative of the local community, but it is by no means a majority representation of the local community, so that some of the claims that appear are flawed. I would also like to say that local communities are involved in sacred institutions, but they are not decisive in how the implementation of the Wildlife and Hunting Act is to take place. That is why I think it is more constructive that this issue remains at the level of hunting organisations, either unions, families and so on. But it is certainly not good to include further local communities. The other thing that seems important to me is that if we are talking about running a public institution with hunting grounds that are of special purpose, it is important to note, however, that we record some problems in history, as a result of this. At the same time, the institution shall act as a planner, manager, and one that oversees the implementation of the fisheries in that area. And here practice has shown that there are some problems in the performance of all these three tasks and it is likely that it would be good to consider further that these tasks may be somewhat divided and that it would not all be under one roof. I would also point to the fact that there is a provision that speaks of grassland and grassland being considered a game damage only from wild pigs being torn grassland. While this is normal, the damage caused by this is extremely large, but the fact is that in practice in areas where the game is large, especially the deer, they must already fence their surfaces with extremely high fences, including 2 metres. And, of course, in this case, hunting organisations should also be linked to landowners, in order to prevent damage to these grasslands and other cultures by effective preventive implementation, in particular by providing funds for either fences or other measures that are possible to prevent wild game from coming to these Polish surfaces. So some practical problems, in the pursuit of the lotto, have proved to be, and I think that further, in the adoption of this law, these experiences could be built in and overcome the problems that have proved to be in the work so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much. There's no Mr. Pechet. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on savagery and hunting proposed by Mr Anderlič, the first-signed, and others, does not in fact bring about what Slovenian hunting would have earned after 12 years of independence. It doesn't bring what hunters and savages deserve. It does not bring what we would, of course, deserve in accordance with the adopted new Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the new principles adopted and with the laws adopted, which are related to this and, of course, to the introduced democracy after the end of the totalitarian system. Therefore, it is also right that the proposer, but he did not do so, look a little bit at history. In explanation, the proposer begins to base his proposal with a 1976 law, i.e. from the party system, without focusing on the Slovenian hunting tradition, which began with the establishment of Slovenian hunting clubs in the 19th century, with the establishment of a Slovenian hunting society in 1907. By word of mouth, he does not mention the goals that our hunters set for themselves at that time and have written them down in the founding documents. The main motto was first cultivation and protection and then we can talk about the implementation of the hunt. They have never deviated from a home hunting system based on land and is also bound by the size of hunting grounds. The municipal hunting grounds were large, private, or self-sustaining, at least 115 hectares or 200 jockeys. This, of course, was later translated into 200 hectares by the Serbian authorities. With this, the right to hunting with 115 hectares of 1931 law has not been deleted, as the applicant now tries to delete in Article 17. Why were they defending the great hunters at the time? Clubs were numbered, and with 100 hunters hunting in the fall, you need a lot of hunting. The Serbian authorities tried to introduce a regal hunting system in the former Austro-Hungarian provinces. What a difference between the regal system of hunting is also recorded in the proposal to explain this law, which was then opposed by all authority because the king or the state would intervene and evaluate the property or rights arising from the property. Thus, on December 15, 1931, a law was passed that united hunting law in the kingdom. In the Slovenian space covered by Drava Banovina came into force in 1935. The law was advanced, advocated for hunting on larger surfaces, and stipulated that the newly created municipal hunting grounds should not be less than 2,000 hectares. However, he did not delete the rights obtained in return. Since it was in Slovenia and is still present in small holdings today, it is characterised by larger municipalities. The law gave great importance to hunting societies and their associations and prescribed a similar organisational scheme, as summarized by lawmakers after 1945. The first law since 1945 was essentially a summary of the 1935 law, by disregarding its own hunting grounds and by introducing the regal hunting system. It defines hunting for municipal hunting grounds, which join their own hunting grounds and eliminates traditional forms of hunting. These forms of hunting have been forgotten since 1949, but they are not prohibited by law. The 1966 law also removes this error, of course in saying, with a dictatorship, "all other forms of hunting which are not prescribed by law are prohibited". The 1976 law summarizes the views gained and legitimizes self-governance in hunting. With him, the hunting organization has gained power that does not belong to it under this law. On these grounds, however, a proposal for a law on savagery and hunting, which was tabled by the first-signed and the others, is also being prepared. The explanation shall be the legislation of the countries where the home hunting system is prescribed. The applicant does not deal with the content of these laws, does not analyse them or substantiate what he took after them or why he did not take anything from them, but cites a study by a German author and not an official opinion by the hunting unions of individual German countries. It builds on reasons that are supposed to be based on German legislation that is not. It is the legislation that remains the legislation of individual federal countries. The interpretation of some common legislation is, of course, quite misleading. In Germany, as in Switzerland, they have a hunting law based on hunting rights, the protection of game, jurisdiction and matters which must be equally regulated in all federal countries. However, the law does not go into the country's interests, the local interests that every country law, or Switzerland cantonese, governs in accordance with its hunting tradition. A large part of the explanation is also given by the proposer to the legislation of the country of July, which is yet to emerge. Austrian federal laws, by the way, do not find a good word for the new Croatian. The latter introduces a wild term - no-one's property and a lease system that is subject to laws, as in Germany, Austria and the Italian countries. The explanation does not mention the laws of the transition countries already in the European Community, nor the countries with us that are worthy to join the European Community. All laws, with Croatian value, are European comparable. That's not what the proponent said. If the applicant were to have fun with our hunting tradition and the legislation that is in force on our soil and with the new legislation of Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Croatia, he would not write what he wrote in his explanation. That traditions and new times have been adapted to laws that are based on which they are built and not on individual opinions and the 1976 law, which is not critically evaluated at all. It argues that it is excellent and, apart from some systemic changes, it does not need new content, which it does not at all. The explanation is very poor and does not correspond to the proposed content of the law, because it has been resorting to our hunting tradition since 1976. I should explain what he kept the old man in the proposal, why he introduced new content. On the basis of the laws adopted, ratified conventions, why it erases acquired rights and new draws the limits of hunting grounds. Why it places these borders outside existing administrative, municipal or cadastral municipalities and professional forestry areas, forestry units, borders, and ecological sites. Every expert knows that the cathedral is a gravitational area of the village. It would be good, of course, if the proposer knew. The inhabitants are landowners in this area, that this is also an ecological and not only forestry unit. Then why introduce some new units that will only complicate and simplify the forest management system. The proposer should know that hunting is part of agriculture and the forest economy, and that the law serves to preserve the game under appropriate conditions, to preserve and improve the habitat of the game, to prevent unsustainable damage that wild game may cause on plants, to protect and raise endangered species of game, as well as to ensure such a condition that the game takes advantage of its natural balance by hunting. If the proposer were aware of this, he would not have prescribed new borders, but would have adapted the current ones to the professional, administrative and thus provided conditions for harmonised interests on the same surfaces and its management and otherwise dispersed populations of the area. They're hunting, not some imaginary hunting material of ecologically conscious hunting experts. It adapts the law and removes them from the problems that are at the municipal, local and not government level, state institutions, public institutions or the headquarters of the association of societies. The applicant thus missed the point and repeated the error made by the law on the transfer of jurisdiction from the municipalities to the country known to have missed its purpose. He has also transferred content that is of a distinct hunting nature to the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Dear Vice President! In the light of the law tabled by Mr Anderlich, I am certainly pleased that the law, which we have been considering for several years, has been discussed, in particular those Members have warned that the law or law adopted in 1976 is necessary, that it is the latest time for the independent state of Slovenia to get its own law. Unfortunately, however, the applicant did not take into account the comments that had been made, not only at the time of the drafting of the law itself for the time of Mr Strlett, but since 92. First, I would touch on that part of the same law, which I personally consider necessary to incorporate into the law itself these proposals. In particular, Mr Anderlič mentioned concerning concessions that local communities were involved. True, local communities are only involved in this area, but in terms of content and dictatorship, it is very complex. In fact, the local community is the one who is supposed to assess the damage caused by the game and ask the government to reimburse these costs for the damage caused. Only in this case is the local community specifically mentioned. My personal view is that the local community should also be involved in the award of concessions, not only by giving an opinion that is not binding or can be positive or negative. However, in the process of awarding concessions, the local community should also be a determining factor in the local community’s request to obtain a certain concession on the basis of competence. True, the law itself gives enormous freedom, but gives enormous freedom to hunters, not landowners. And this is one of those personal comments I have made that private property is not taken into account. In doing so, I will explicitly identify myself on the state's fishing grounds. In view of the fact that as mayor, I come from an area that is in the complete area of management in 53,000 hectares covering 8 or 9 municipalities, this is Kozorog Kamnik. From the area where hunting families are located, I have neither positive nor negative experience, in short, because I hear my friends the mayors or possibly also people, or landowners where hunting families are, in the concept of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, do not have these problems, as do the local communities where the hunting grounds are. It is also an incomprehensible concept that state hunting may be on private land. In view of the fact that the law itself violates even Articles 33, 67 and 74 of the Constitution itself, the applicant, judging from his assessment of me, is in an enviable position. However, in all this law, which Mr Anderlich has tabled, there has certainly been a strong action against the critics of the law itself, namely in the area of Kozoroga Kamnik. Kozorog Kamnik, or their director Darko Veternik, allowed himself - Kozorog Kamnik ja - to assess the work of the mayor of Predvor and, of course, also assess my work and approach to Kozorogo Kamnik himself in the years he holds the directorship in Kamnik. In short, I understand his letter, which he sent to all the parliamentary groups, and, of course, he wants you to also send this letter to all Members of Parliament, gives me the feeling that he personally assesses that this law is being passed only for Kozorog Kamnik. And for an area that's in the hands of the Cosorogrove Kamnika. In addition, let me say that all the comments that were made under the Predvor Congregation have been forwarded to all the congregations where the director of Kozorog Kamnik is located. Not only that Predvor municipality, but also the other municipalities, the Logar Valley, Solčava, to all of these municipalities, which I had previously appointed to be Kozorog Kamnik carrying out the so-called breeding activity, which is a long time for me, but sometimes another time. Well, even this mentions how the mayor of Cerkelj allowed himself to establish a hunting ground in the area of the municipality of Cerklje in 1997/1998. That's right. I also made this public yesterday on the Committee on Agriculture of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, that after all the requests of the Hunting Society of the Church in the 36th years and with all the promises or former policies during the time of Yugoslavia, or the current policies to the President of the State, to the Prime Minister, to the President of Parliament to stop here a little - to the various individual Members, to the various ministers, always in letters to ensure that this issue will be resolved through new legislation. Among other things, Mr Pahor, Mr Potrč, made a promise in the municipality of Predvor at the celebration in Kokra - it was the anniversary of the burning of Kokre, which was burned by then-occupiers, fascists - and Mr Pahor also promised that a new law would solve the issue of hunting grounds in the area of the Predvor municipality. He says they're right to stand up for it. In short, of all the prominent Slovenian politicians, I will not go back to the system of Yugoslavia, but, in short, to the independent state of Slovenia, I have always ensured that these issues in the area of Kozoroga should be resolved for the benefit of local communities. Among other things, he even states that we were some sort of blacksmith, because this one, at this point, would just say the following. I wonder when Kozorog Kamnik was granted a building permit for pheasantry in the village and when he was given any permission, when recently several thousand cubic metres were taken from the land to his own Agricultural Land Fund I will no longer refer to the letter sent by Mr Veternik. In short, I'm assessing this letter as essentially people who are untouchable. In short, the feud you try to legalize through the law itself is perfectly clear. In view of what Mr Jelinčič said earlier, in some way we must avoid the various feuds of the former system, and my personal opinion is that at 53,000 hectares of fevd we are setting exactly the same back. This is a clear discredit of landowners, local communities and, in short, those hunting families who wish to obtain hunting rights in local communities or within local communities. So much for once, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Joža Ašić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u226	Thank you and a nice good evening all together. When I listened to all these discussions, I am actually very glad that all these uncultivated and uncivilised mammals and birds, which represent the game we are talking about today, do not know the borders of the state, nor the municipal borders, nor the cadastral borders. They don't care whose forest they are, they don't care who's hunting grounds, but it's important that they defend themselves against those who want to rob them, and they don't really care how it's been going on for the last 100 years. We humans are the ones who make sure that in nature the balance between humans and game is maintained at the level that allows for a sonar and pleasant life for all. All those who intend to reject this law today are likely to do just the right thing. For the rejection of this law means that the 1976 Law, or 1986 Law, will continue to apply. And with this law, in fact, living things that represent favo in our forests, in the fields, in the meadows, will not change much. And if today we talk about the situation in Slovenian forests, and these forests are in Slovenia, Mr. Pukšič, I have been completely silent, and I have listened to you carefully, and I have found that 100 years has already been a hunting organisation in Slovenia, almost 100 years, and that of this 50 years of socialist organization, almost 60 years of it, and that animals are very happy about it, and nothing has happened to them that it is complete nonsense to talk about a system that was bad or good. We need to talk about the situation in Slovenian forests, and I think it's good. That Slovenia, as a small country, is very affluent, is very rich. And that in our Slovenian forests there are also some living things that have been lost in some periods, even in socialism, as well as before, inhabited back. That we have a lynx, that we have a bear, that we have such a rich, diverse life in our nature, for which it is worth the effort. And that's why I don't think that if we don't support the law, and if you don't support the one you're predicting, we won't do anything wrong. However, if we want to modernise and bring closer to the current way we want in Slovenia, then we will support this law in the first reading and, of course, try to upgrade, upgrade, final adoption in those essential comments. I agree there are some open questions. I knew that this law, of course, is a lot of hunters in Slovenia, and we all know that it will lead to a variety of dilemmas and comments. To create contradictions between bear lovers and bear enemies. Among cormorant lovers, and cormorant enemies. Between naturalists and quasi-naturalists. And so on, and so on. All this was to be expected. But this does not mean that we could not bring this law to the extent that it will correspond to Slovenian hunting and, above all, Slovenian nature. And that's all this is about. However, in nature someone must also take care of it. And in nature it is also necessary to maintain some balance. And this law makes it possible. Some of the questions that I have noted myself will have to be resolved. For example, hunting on the poles. Polharija is a special feature in Slovenia, Dolenjska and Notranjska. The peacocks are defined in the law as wildlings, but we know that the peacocks hunt slightly differently than the other wildlings in Slovenia. This may also need to be said in this law. Wildlings, which are such a question and so on, may need to be marked. Perhaps it should be because of the danger - even personally I know the case, when it was out of delicacy, greed or for other reasons, that someone cut the fell and that animals got into nature, and then they didn't know what was whose and who it was - and it might be good to prescribe that in conflict, savages are marked to know what private property is and what state property is. It would probably have to be written in a very firm and explicit way in the law that wild game is national, even though the whole law makes it clear. The damage - it will probably have to be said about the damage. Especially in the case of car damage, where, in fact, very serious cases may occur, that a wild bus or other vehicle does not cause only material damage but also endangers human lives. Perhaps it should be considered that today optional car insurance for injuries caused by game would also be mandatory. These are the issues that we need to resolve further in the preparation and finalisation of the law. That is why I think it is right to support the law and that it is very right that very much does not deviate from the way in which Slovenia manages and hunts, which has so far been common. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u228	I could agree with some of my colleagues' thoughts. In particular, by claiming that this law does not in fact bring anything new. That's right. This is the continuation of the old things, the old system; a few words have been changed. At least there was social property, and now it's not. We don't know whose property it is. Although the explanation says it's state property, it's not in the law itself. However, the explanation itself has no weight on the marriage text, so at least we could write it down as to what it is to know. The law represents some kind of usurpation. Private property shall not be sufficiently taken into account. It is impossible for owners to define hunting grounds, especially not in the way that the criterion is laid down [[2,000 hectares]] , according to Slovenian specialty. But it doesn't bother the proponents. Nothing bothers them, because they will continue to hunt wherever they feel, walk anywhere in the fields, on the meadows, and I do not know what kind of ecological and what else. This is not how things can be regulated in Slovenia, unless you think the way they used to be. This is the continuation of the previous system. Maybe it's a little better when it comes to state hunting, in short, it's a real hunting law, as colleague Sok has already mentioned. There is no real compensation arrangement, at least in the current compensation scheme there has been - for the first time, with a very large delay and for the second time; very ridiculous compensations. The last time I heard from her, she said that wild animals that caused wild animals to be destroyed were, after not knowing how much time 5,000 tolars was, in short, a ridiculous thing. Therefore, we ask people whether it makes any sense to put compensation into this procedure. In Slovenia, hunting for prestigious hunting rights, hunting as fun, hunting as tourism. Personally, I strongly oppose such ways of hunting, entertainment, and some tourist attraction. Therefore, this should not be allowed. Prohibition of the industrial feeding of animals. I'm against it. Why against it? Because animal overpopulation is established because it is artificially fed. It feeds too close to the habitats, so their nature changes, the behavior of animals changes, and they are no longer true wild animals. Of course, that's why we have as much as we do in the Loške brook as the Tončka bear, which they have to shoot. Overcrowding is a natural way to create this balance, creating a real ecological balance. This is what we need in Slovenia, not artificial feeding grounds, 500 meters next to settlements, vultures where bears feed and I don't know what else. And, in this marriage, it's missing, the key things. So hunting families have raw materials free of charge, and they are not interested in compensation, at least to the extent necessary. The former feudals had their hunting grounds and cared for them properly. I do not agree with all procedures, but what is being introduced are modern-day feudal people who do not take private property into account, but go over. A completely excluded local community has no role to play. That's not the way. The damage should be recovered from the hunt and from the shooting. That's the right approach. In short, if I sum it up, if this law is passed, nothing will be significantly better. But it is up to us to make it fundamentally modern, civilisational, which will take into account all these elements that I have outlined. We do not need such a savage law in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I really like the fact that we are different, because if the law were very different from the existing one and it changed things, I would certainly not support it. I support the proposed law by my fellow Member and fellow Members, because it also allows for future continuation, according to my assessment of the useful work of hunters organised in hunting families. It is true that hunters, as well as politicians and others, are a type of jokes and definitions, some do not like them because they see wild killers in them. Others, like me, feel that despite some of the actions of individuals I do not approve of, it is necessary not to say necessarily necessary. Let me also say that the basic principles of the existing law are close to me and I welcome the decision of the drafters to maintain those solutions that are already adequately regulated in the existing law. In particular, it is good to define the new law as State property and that the hunting right is owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which is also granted under certain legal conditions. The concession shall be paid to the concessionary, that is, to the State. However, it would be good to spend these funds for the purposes of which they were collected and recorded in Article 1 of the proposed law. This is also provided for in Article 29 of the proposed law. The essence of the debate on the proposal for a law on game and hunting is not whether to preserve hunting or not, but, above all, whose property is savages in close connection with forest ownership. The proposed concept, as I have already said, is, in my opinion, good, but it would probably be useful to consider a certain symbolic compensation on the basis of the funds obtained for the concessions awarded. Accepting forest ownership as the basis for the right to hunt could, however, only be the first step towards limiting forest fruits, but not quantitatively, but ownershipally. Later, he may even walk with large written tablets or tablets of private land or private forest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič is not here, nor is Mr. Visiak. Mr. Kangler. No, no, no. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. The reasons for the adoption of the law are more than justifiable, given that it is one of the oldest laws we still apply from the previous period, made in 1976. It is clear that there are many interests of environmentalists, owners and their organisations, hunting organisations, local communities and countries in such a law. Many of these interests are also extremist. I think it is important that we adopt such a law as can be implemented. In this national assembly, we have also adopted laws on the protection of nature. Let's say a law on the protection of lone fungi that can't be controlled in any way. It is therefore necessary to maintain the organisation that ensures the implementation of the law. Of course, the fact that the game will be state property is not a specialty inherited from the previous system. If we look at neighbouring Italy, they also have state ownership, wild game and 2,000 hectares of roof area. So I believe that the basic solutions to the law are acceptable to me. Nevertheless, I have a few comments on specific laws. In Article 6, in the third paragraph, I think it is too exclusive to authorize the Institute of Forests to identify fishing grounds or to prepare, and it would be necessary for the local community to participate, as it says, and the agri-economic chamber to do so. And I justify that for a number of reasons. First of all, wildlings don't just hang out in the woods. Secondly, in some areas, I will then speak in accordance with Article 31, have failed to show trust or have already decided to intervene in the forests, contrary to Article 31 of this Law, which we are now considering. I'll talk about it later. That is why I believe that there is a need to get another organisation here, so that it will not be just the Institute of Forests. The same is then, of course, necessary in the third paragraph of Article 8, in the last sentence, to obtain the opinion of the regional association of residents and local communities. Such a solution is also common in our country when the local community gives an opinion on some of the State's interventions in the local community. For example, certain construction operations for motorways, border crossings and so on give an opinion. This is how we have this regulated in other areas and I think it would be appropriate in this area. The same applies, of course, to Article 25 in the award of concessions. In particular, I mentioned Article 31 earlier. Article 31 speaks of the tasks or the forest and the forest area. In particular, I would stop again at the third paragraph, where it says: 'land roads and trains are not allowed to be built through growth sites, nests, dens, winter grounds and pastures of game. The route of these roads must be at least 100 metres away from the cities of the forest, especially important for the existence and nutrition of the game." With all seriousness, I say that we have hundreds of hectares of forests at this time, at which time it determines the method of logging the Institute for Forests, the core trains to the train are not 100 meters away, or to the growth sites, or to the site of the game. I therefore stress once again that the Institute for Forests cannot be an exclusive hunter of hunting grounds. I would also like to ask myself about Article 56, which, of course, is about payback, or about how it is necessary to protect the land. I believe that the second paragraph needs to be re-examined because it is unclear. As a good master, the owner must ensure that land and culture are protected against wildlings. It could be interpreted like that. If a salad in an unbridled garden is sung by a neighbor's "sheka", the neighbor is responsible. But if it's a government deer, I'm responsible for it. And of course, somehow this doesn't go according to property. The owner is responsible for what he owns. The same applies to Article 57 for damage caused by game on a moving motor vehicle. The solution is summed up by the Austrian system, but we must watch that in Austria the owner, the property of the game is worthless, that is to say, there is no one's property, and of course no one can then answer. We're supposed to have state property, and it's logical for the owner to answer. At least that's what I think it should be. But I would, of course, like to talk about the 58th article that talks about the hunting family. Regardless of the huge work that hunting families have done so far to preserve the game and to work in the hunting grounds, I believe that as defined here, it will be necessary to redecorate or determine whether this is in accordance with the social law. The hunting family is also a society. So, is it true that the condition for being part of a hunting family has been met with a hunting test? I don't think so. I believe a hunting test is a condition for hunting. While just membership in society, of course, does not mean that a member of society also hunts, at least by looking at the law on societies, the right to be a member of society is general. That would be a good thing, because hunting families would open up a little bit. After all, with a new view to wildlife management, it is not necessary for all those who are members of the hunting family to also hunt. If we look at the following article, which says that members of the hunting union can also be other societies, not only hunters. So, there can be societies that are not hunters, while a member of the hunting family can't be someone who doesn't have a hunting test. I also believe that the fourth paragraph of Article 68 should be recalculated. If we add up or a hunting family that is a concessionary, it can limit the admission of new members in its basic act if the hunting area per member does not reach bottom hunting grounds, there are 50 hectares in the mid-mount fishing area of 100 hectares, in a high-mountain fishing area of 150 hectares. Given that we have 22,000 hunters in Slovenia, if we multiply and add up these surfaces, then at this point and for the next few years they cannot accommodate any member of the hunting family. These numbers need to be checked. This means that for a period of time membership is in fact exclusive and closed. Notwithstanding these few comments, which are, of course, minimal if we count that the law has more than 87 members, I believe that the law is good and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u234	Since they've only got four minutes left, there's still a few things Bevk will say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich is not here. Mr. Cimperman? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Initially, I would mention that the introduction of this law on hunting and game is a typical example of how the current coalition works and how it should not actually work under normal conditions. In fact, 5.9. was addressed to the ultimatum by the Liberal Democracy Club of the Minister of Agriculture: "In fourteen days we want an answer to what will happen to the hunting law. If this is not done after fourteen days, we will be working at the parliamentary club to see a new law on hunting be passed." Notwithstanding the fact that the Member State club received a reply from the competent minister on 11.9., where the distinctions between civil society organisations which have not found a common language are particularly mentioned. And they are listed: the Hunting Union, the Agricultural-land chamber, various societies that oppose hunting or nature conservation, as well as the societies of prodigals of nationalised property. According to the responses, at this point only one of the civil associations, but not the rest, and I resent the proposals, I also resent your speed. In fact, if there was no common language in the 11 years, then we could take even more time to properly regulate and harmonise this legal text. I can honestly say that this marriage text is worse than the existing hunting law, worse for landowners in particular, and then I will say that later. Again, once again, he's protesting the way he works, and I went to read the government's opinion in detail, and I'm going to quote on page 3. - "In the planning of the solutions referred to in Article 8 of the draft law, which provides that the designation of the catch under the authority of the district minister shall be assessed as inappropriate by the government. It is a matter of such importance that it must be raised to the level of government, of decision-making, especially because the government will also adopt acts on the award of concessions. In accordance with the second paragraph of point 6, in accordance with the above-mentioned solutions, the other provisions of the draft law on jurisdiction, the Minister, compensation, etc. must be corrected. A typical example of today's events at the beginning of this point. The government, or majority of the government, took its hand, its authority, and set up a second resort. This can, of course, be done with the manoeuvres of the Rules of Procedure, but it is not tasty, but not cultural. Second. What is the attitude toward compensation or landowners? In the opinion of the Government, the public service - "We believe that there is no suitable basis for a solution which defines the tasks of sustainable wildlife management, the tasks of concessionaires as a public service. According to the nature of the matter itself in the wildlife management public, it is not possible to defend itself as a public service, and consequently means that the state budget should pay or recognise the costs of managing these activities. He's also running away here. He's also running away from paying damages. I actually have to ask the proposer, i.e., I agree that the game is national, it's not my problem, I see the problem elsewhere, in typical ignorance of landowners. Now I'm going to tell Section 56 what they wrote. In Article 56, the second sentence reads: "The owner, tenant or other user of the farm or forest land and owner of domestic animals is obliged as a good master to ensure adequate protection of land and cultures and of domestic animals against game." I live in an area where more and more farms are so threatened by game, especially wild pigs, that they must be completely fenced, whole farms. This is not a European category, colleagues, this is not a European category and such a provision in Article 56 is literally a force for more dissatisfaction between landowners and farmers and, on the other hand, operators and hunters. You're gonna have to fix this here. It's literally the ignorance of a particular layer of this society. And then in Article 58, when you talk about the enforcement of compensation, where there is actually a possibility of enforcement of the claim. You don't have it in your bill as it is today. Authorized victims estimate damage, hunting families don't have money. Why don't they have it? Because there's too much damage. And because this damage is too much, the main reason is the game management plan, hunting breeding plans. Why are you artificially trying to climb through, and also in reality, a stock of wildlings in our country. This is a key issue that I now address to planners, both the Hunting Union of Slovenia, because it always advocates a greater number of conservations of animal stocks or an increase in this stock. I've never seen anything like it before. When the approach is different, the approach towards the balance of living space will be different, and I am waiting for the moment and time to see this also happen in our country. In recent years, we have seen typical cases of increased damage after the wild. If colleague Pozsonchev had been here, when she has also raised this issue many times in Parliament, I would even ask her whether she agrees with the proposed law and with these provisions in the area of compensation. So much for that. The second question that comes to mind, however, has already been mentioned by my colleagues as to where the congregations are. The municipalities are only in the process of issuing applications to the State. So someone who will always be exposed to it, yes, the municipality, or they will knock on the mayor's door, and other officials will be injured when the money is available, and the state will look down. If, of course, she has money in her budget, she'll have it if she doesn't have it, she won't have it. And now the key question. Above all, I have noticed this by becoming a member of the United List, of my colleagues and of my colleagues. I told you, it's no problem for me that the wild is state property. It's no problem that forest fruits are state property, no to me, the problem is second. The problem is whether landowners will also be entitled to the work of the concession. No, they're owners, they're state owners. It's the same with forest fruits. I agree with all the fighters, the recreationals in my forest, but I can honestly tell you something. You know what's left behind? Garbage, waste and so on, and even in some cases damage to forest growth. Where are the competent inspectors, etc., to act. I haven't seen one in the country of the Republic of Slovenia to actually act in this case. And if this matter is not resolved here too, let us at least give landowners the opportunity to be entitled to the work of the concession. Then this relationship here will be different as planned at the moment. And look, the organisation of hunting and the related awarding of concessions. High-rise farms, which have a large area, and which have only a forest, some meadows, should also be able to obtain concessions. What about agrarian communities? Agrarian communities should be able to obtain concessions if they meet the conditions. No, neither do they. And now, in the end, I think colleague Kavčič mentioned that 40% of the farmers are members of hunting families, probably landowners. Farmers are also members of hunting families. My interest is that it would be significantly more, because if this percentage were different, then those questions that I said would be significantly less. But here's the key question. Both this system, as it is with us - this has already been said by colleague Butolen - to gain membership in hunting families, and the regime as it is to establish the possibility of membership, and the procedure simply rejects the attractiveness to join hunting families. It is likely that colleagues from the Hunting Association of Slovenia will say that each year there are fewer members and that membership is old. This, too, will have to be included in the draft law, the proposal that will, of course, be appropriate in order to be able to adopt it. However, such as this one, without guarantees from the applicants, that it will be substantially corrected in these segments, as well as others already told by colleagues, I believe that it is not appropriate and that the existing one is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that the information that some Members have been prohibited from communicating with others with regard to the content of this law is a mere joke to me. Information is bullshit. Second. The law began in 1993, when the first one was written by the tripartite Member John Oman, and he made a request to the government, prepare a second law, then I will withdraw mine, which is not the best. It has been 10 years, the government has written the law, and we have put forward proposals for several projects on this topic. And because the law didn't come from the other side, we ended up again, on the same path as then John Oman, just putting in a marriage, with, I don't know, eleven signatures, among which I am. At the same time, I hope to say that the current arrangement, I think the one between us, is not so bad. However, there are some shortcomings, which unfortunately are also present in this law and I am counting on us to correct them. These are damages. But not in the way that some of you represent. It is illustrated that landowners, namely property by the constitution, would be slightly different from what some of you say about land. It's not an exclusive right. It's carried out by law. And that compensation, management, planning, would be easier to solve if we had 200 owners with 1200 parcels in the 400 hectare hunting area. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Slovenia has a special ownership structure, which has no European state. Separated, with a lot of owners who would never agree. Of course, it would be mathematically possible to calculate how much on 400 hectares of concessional amount, to divide it, but then everyone else you're talking about would stay with long noses. Including those who feed the wild. In fact, the game has a shelter in the forest, and it feeds on agricultural areas. That's a big difference. The press on the exhibition of private property is by the forest owners who would like to trap game on agricultural surfaces and collect concession fee. Of course I won't support this story. Maybe I'm coming from a specific area. The Compass breeding ground on 12,000 hectares, which is not much, pays 25 percent of all damage in the country, but on the field. The stories you're selling here about forest damage are not real. There's very little damage. Maybe it's my specifics from Prekmur. And, of course, then, is the reason for that previous story that I was talking about, that I wouldn't repeat that the landowners would want something. We are dealing with the migration of game mainly in critical times of time, drought and winter, from a neighbouring country. And of course, because I'm on the other side of the forest surface, there are big reindeer tropics, wild pigs and so on, and the hectares destroy and this is also the reason that the previously mentioned hunting grounds cover 25% of all damage in the country, so that they are extremely damaging to us. And no hunting family can withstand this damage. And he can't cover them, even if he's using the entire budget to cover the damage. This was covered by breeding activities in different ways and selling pheasants, ducks and the like. However, at this point, after the droughts when the damage was greatest, the situation is strong in red numbers and will, of course, be picked up in a short time, unless a suitable solution is found within the framework of the law on such fisheries. In the section on damage, it will be necessary to develop a specific system for such cases. They're not scary. For all the damage in the country, 100 million were paid. And in these border areas there may be more than Compass himself has paid and there is a possible solution within the text of the law. And I hope that when we have this kind of text on the table, that you will support it and we will bring it into the marriage, we will also find a suitable solution for this area, and that this law will nevertheless bring something new and good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A well-respected choir. When considering the law, I would like to draw attention to the problem of fish-eating birds in connection with Article 44 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act. The Fishing Union of Slovenia has been working for many years to place a large cormorant and grey herring among the species. This year, we adopted a law in the National Assembly on the ratification of an agreement on the conservation of African-Eurasia migratory waterbirds. With regard to the agreement just mentioned, its implementation in practice, and the law we are considering today, I would like to point out the problem of fish-eating birds, which causes considerable damage to Slovenian freshwater fisheries, or better said water life in our rivers. Fishing Slovenia, as it is said, suggests that a large cormorant and grey herring be classified as hunting species. The large cormorant has virtually no protection, although it currently does not belong to the hunting species. The only document under consideration is the annual government discharge regulation, which has so far been drawn up by the competent ministry. This is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Last year, for example, 500 copies were fired. They also determine for the grey picket at the Ministry of the Environment - at least such are the indications of the Fishing Union of Slovenia - that the species has become sufficiently vital and that its full protection is no longer necessary. As regards this proposal, it would therefore draw on the action plan of the previous agreement, which lists detailed guidelines for the conservation of migratory waterbirds, whose implementation by the States Parties is regularly monitored and revised. This plan also provides that the hunting of those birds may continue or require the Parties to ensure that their hunting legislation implements the principle of sustainable use. The Agreement also obliges the States Parties to collect information on damage, in particular on crops caused by those birds in the Agreement. At the same time, the Parties shall identify appropriate ways to minimise damage or mitigate consequences and shall develop action plans for individual species of populations causing significant harm. In its opinion, the Government notes that the proposed legal text provides a conceptual solution to the area of game and hunting, so that some of the solutions in the law need to be verified professionally. For this reason, I propose that the Government or the competent ministry examine the proposal of the Slovenian Fish Federation to include a large cormorant and grey platypus in the 44th section of the law which speaks species and prepare it, if possible, for a second reading in an amendment form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We have before us a law on savagery and hunting, which I think is a very unfortunate title, because it mixes two categories. This law violates a number of constitutional principles in its conceptual solutions. That is why I believe, also our client, that this is a conceptually incomplete, bad marriage. However, this law is good for at least one thing: by means of this introduced law, we have learned that the parties to which the parties to this law belong do not respect the partnership. They are not subject to "Pacta sunt servanda" - the contract must be respected - but they work with ultimatum as we have heard It is a principle that has been reflected in the solutions of this law. The law was written by a modern-day Slovenian aristocracy. It is logical that this aristocracy assumes as its institute of power and cooperation with other ultimatums. Ultimat, this is the principle of action, and also from this law the exact same mentality, the same spirit is drawn from many solutions. Clearly, the advantage is, say, wildlings from man, even more favoured by wildlings than by landowners. A farmer is not a category to be respected, this is an unrespected category, this law. They're running into the eyes of this solution. This law does not solve the problem and the status of the average hunter. To the average hunter who is quite a handful in Slovenia today, this law assigns the role of a driver, a natural worker. But with savagery and the pleasures of hunting, hunting will be carried out by hunting aristocracy. This is a completely flawed, unjust concept, but it is not contrary to the current state of the spirit of this authority. You are literally no longer able to conceal these purposes. What was said on TV was that some wanted to restore feudalism. New feudalism is being created, feuds and feudals are being created very clearly. There will be talk about how all the damage will be settled and how it has been said so far. That's not true! Where they've got them so far. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] That's where agriculture left off, where people moved out, Kočevsko and other districts. [[...]] Look, if that were true, it might be interesting for some farmer to have the wildlings clean up all his crops, that the wildlings are a combination and will get everything paid by the hunters. He'll save one more job. There's not a farmer who can beat a dry bread with that. Even so far, hunters have not paid regularly. The law here shows that you don't anticipate any balance. Look, I'm not a hunter, and I haven't been working very closely on this subject, the subject. Do you not trust the farmer that he also cares about his agricultural works so that he does not kill animals? I know that certain birds are also nesting sometimes, but that the lawn mower does something to mow down, but this dictatorship is an impeding of literally agricultural activity. [[...]] You then state that the Republic of Slovenia is subsidising the acquisition of some preventive funds. Why isn't the hunting organisation subsidizing? Is it necessary to place the burden on the country immediately? And then what my fellow Rokavec said, which I fully agree with, but not that you will drive into the reserves, the savages, and the hunters, the hunting aristocracy, will have all the freedom. The hunting aristocracy will dictate what the landowner can do on his land. I looked around. If this was some terrible innovation and it was innovation, but a positive innovation, then I would accept it. But the world has different solutions. You've drawn some solutions for your hair. I don't mind if the wild is state property. I don't mind that much, not at all. But the fact that the owner of the land on his land is not allowed to do anything should some wildling move, and the hunting organisation will not allow him any procedures. I'd like to reread what they've prepared for you. I know that this extraordinary power, which the people behind this in the Slovenian space have, is difficult to resist. However, you are Members and I hope that you will consider that such solutions will, in fact, be part of economic activity, that the amount of game and all that in some context with agricultural activity, with nature, etc. I can't believe you're writing here like our ancestors were savages who didn't respect any nature, but they kept everything. How can you come up with such concepts? Then it's said that 40% of hunters are farmers. This information is misleading. I come from farming species, I live in a rural environment, and I know it's more than 100% misleading. Maybe so many owners of some small agricultural land. And absolutely no attention to the owners of agricultural land, fenced land, etc., an absolute advantage to some lady, but not to hunters as such. You're pleading for hunters, but this is a handful of people who, like in all other areas at this time in Slovenia, will dictate their rules of the game and both to the constitution and to everything. It's the same thing here. A small man, a simple hunter, a farmer, a villager here is completely ignored. There's no count between that normal member of the company. This doctrine, this spirit, which is drawn from this marriage, separates the superhuman and a subject. And I can't support such a lecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to talk about the whole marriage myself, but there's only two things I'd like to say. The first thing I like about this law is hunting, hunting grounds, because there was a lease system up to the end of II in our places. World War II. Then came the laws that took away many hunting grounds, large areas, and created so large, so-called breeding hunting grounds. Trenta, you all know her, you walked around 1962, and before that, in 1949, Trentar and Sočany were taken from all areas of hunting grounds. These people had to drive five miles [8 km] away if they wanted to be hunters. I'd say a lot of people today that it's not a big deal, but they couldn't be hunters at home. And today, after 50 years of waiting for these people, this law doesn't apply to them. The Triglav National Park Act does not apply to them either. If you remember when I reasoned from this place that it's not fair that these locals don't have the right to hunt at home. We took their hunting rights, took their fishing rights, banned goat traps. What else did we give these people? Nothing, absolutely nothing. And after 50 years of waiting, they experienced no comfort in returning what was taken away from them. Generations of people died, but they weren't allowed to ride home. It's not fair. Secondly, many in Slovenia have also been taken away from fishing grounds and established fishing grounds. We have returned with laws to the agrarian community and also to the private of forests and pasture areas. Today, farmers in Tolminska can breed cows on the land of the agrarian community, which has been returned to them and the right to hunt is still in the hands of the state. These people live there. We're talking about people running from the countryside. Of course they're running, because we're not leaving them anything. I ask whether it will take years and years again to change the law, whether it will be years or just decades or more. If the countryside is as empty as it has been now, for the past 30 years, it will have no need to speak at all. And even the Triglav National Park, when we talk about if people don't live there, we'll have very little to talk about the Triglav National Park Act. The second point I would like to say is chapter 11 of the bill on the organisation of hunting and the letter of the hunting union, which was previously read, is at least one piece. Everyone in this Chamber, at least what I am here alone, is already referring to human rights. The General Declaration of Human Rights, read and live, was adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948, by Resolution 217a/3. And what does Article 20 say? First time. Everyone has the right to free and peaceful assembly and association. And a second time. No one should be forced to join any society. Tomorrow afternoon we will listen to the Ombudsman's report. We'd do well to ask him how he feels about it. In the Saturday annex of Work, Matija Graf wrote an article, the likeness and self-likeness of Members - people who do not move up. We're doing something like that today. We're talking, but the mountain won't move. That's what I'm afraid of. However, I only expect if this law is to happen, and when it comes to the second reading, that we will talk about the hunters and arrange for the people who have been proposing for decades waiting for their hunt at home. But I will end by saying this, the constitution in Article 82 says that Members are representatives of all the people and are not obliged to follow any instructions. Good thing everyone remembers that. Anyone who has heard this today, if not, should read Article 82 of the Constitution to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u245	Thank you very much. There is no Mr Kavčič, Mr Rupar, instead of Mr Pukšič, neither. Mr Kramberger? You don't want to. Mr. Kremjar? Not unless you've been reported for discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, I did it, though. I'm going to go a little further, where I actually ended up. Look, the state's fisheries have essentially been set up for political purposes. We're all well aware of that. Given that in some way it was blasphemous, what we sent the municipalities on the basis of comments, proposals by citizens, landowners, which is transmitted by Members of the National Assembly. This is in some ways for Kozorog Kamnik or for the state hunting ground blasphemous. In the text part, as a proposal for an amendment or for a second reading supplement, we have specifically proposed certain amendments for which we would like to take them into account. I think we have every right. Because, last but not least, the way I said before, that state fisheries were set up 55 years ago, or a little more or less, especially for political purposes, in some way characterize that certain individual ambitions, which are subject to capital and transition, and that, therefore, with all these comments that we have forwarded, we want to embody some form of feudalism, which is completely contradicted by all the logic that the legislator or the bill-maker is essentially pursuing. I will now make our concrete proposals. In all articles, the local community is disregarded, which is particularly relevant in Article 4(6), Article 7(4) and Article 8(2), because it is unacceptable that the law is monopolistic and that everything is in the domain with the institution. Article 6 particularly raises the question and consideration of planning in areas of multi-domestic game, in particular where the national border takes place. The countries concerned have each their own hunting legislation, which relates to the specific game, and thus comes into different areas of hunting legislation. We cannot imagine that the planned management of the game would be past taking into account the cooperation of local communities. Article 21 says "communities as such are unacceptable". That's what we say. Once again, they have no status as a state, because this is now prescribed. As regards the hunting link as an institution, the question is why it has the power to carry out the examinations, since the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the Republic of Slovenia should be responsible for carrying out this exercise. The Concession for the management of game in hunting grounds should give particular meaning, which is also specified in the law itself, to be defined in the law as a hunting ground of particular importance, which is also not clearly defined. It is necessary to define the public interest, because if hunting is not carried out professionally, with the interests of the local community, and even vice versa, it is not possible to talk about public interest, especially if the motivations for the sale of game are market-oriented. As already mentioned by Mr Rokavec, paragraph 56. We also have a proposal. The cost of land owners, land owners to protect land and culture, as a good catcher, should also be regulated by the financing and maintenance of these protected areas. In fact, in the marriage, you loaded this on the owner, and you could even list it. It's about state hunting, including the Beltinians. The same has been done recently in the area of eight, nine congregations. We had a hatchery as a pheasant, and when the pheasants matured, they were released on private property, foreigners, Italians came, and they crossed, broke and damaged all the crops on private property of the farmers themselves. This is happening today in the Beltinci State Hunting, the way in which state hunting is profitable, the very proposer who wrote it in the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I think it's good in this marriage to try and preserve what's good. And that's the essence of the whole story. Just because something has to change to change, because they're relics of a system and so on, I don't care, they can be relics of the Turkish system, the self-government system, if it's good, so be it. Second. Let us leave behind organizations of civil society that work well: the hunting union, the hunting families. This is where we heard the debate today, we have to cut into hunting families, we have to make order. What kind of order? This is a civil society organisation that is well organised and working, thank God we have some organisations that are doing well. Get involved, whoever thinks that, in this organization, and let them change from the inside if you think it's wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo? He's not here. There was no one, no one, Mr. Kremjar mentioned. Mr. Lavrinz? He's not here. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. More than 22,000 hunters organised in hunting families and in hunting relations in Slovenia are undoubtedly carrying out an extremely important and socially useful task in the field of nature protection, wildlife protection, cultivation and hunting. In carrying out this very important task, hunting families, hunters encounter, even during the period of Slovenia alone, with increasing problems resulting from inadequate, lifeless, inappropriate legislation. I think this is what the proponents of this law had in mind, and not least the leading people of the Hunting Association of Slovenia who supported this marriage proposal had this in mind. The problems encountered by hunters in the implementation of their mission in the last period are, however, of a nature that is conditioned by a conflict between landowners and the pursuit of hunting. I ask or ask the applicants, especially those responsible from the Hunting Union of Slovenia, if they have a mandate of 22,000 and a few other hunters to defend such a solution, which completely excludes or places in the subordinate position of the owner of agricultural land and forests. Do you, respected officials and, above all, proposers have a mandate to enforce such legal solutions? What can happen in the final aftermath? In the final aftermath, it can happen that a hunting war is about to begin, which is what is already happening - this gentlemen from the hunting union well know - that they are coming into conflict with landowners, that landowners, those, I will say, who are more literally grasping this property, are already making it impossible to access forests and are already denying access to hunting grounds, there are prisons on the roads. What will happen if such an established marriage proposal does not respond sufficiently to the questions raised about ownership regarding compensation? What will then be the mission of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, or of hunting families, or of our hunters, if that happens? I think this is one of the key questions to be answered. This can only be answered by the adoption of an appropriate law, which will also take into account the interests of landowners and, in particular, the payment of appropriate compensations, which will take account of the interests of the local communities, not least in the planning of the stock of animals and in the management of the stock of animal species. If that is not the case, look at this debate, and the debate that will follow in the second and third stages of the process of adopting a proposal, those who have not thought so far about what forest ownership, land ownership and how they are being treated in accordance with established practice or after this proposal will be compensated and compensated for hunting will also have a serious conflict, where the hunters will briefly withdraw. Remember, hunters, and indirectly their role in caring for the environment, for the wild and for everything else. This is a very serious dilemma. We're not far from this. I reiterate that even now, where hunters have done nothing in their reputation, on social acceptability, problems are going on and things that prevent hunting families from performing their role throughout the hunting field. Already there are hunting families that have not dealt with those extremists who have shot anything that has not escaped into the tree or into the water that have shot cats in a ruthless manner, dogs that have not been included in the environment who are being hunted are having problems. I wonder what problems hunting families will be dealing with after the entry into force of this law, which brings worse solutions than the existing law. Let's try to answer that. Consider this matter responsibly, for no one wants a worse or worse, worse relationship between hunters and landowners, among farmers who have to work together to live together. This law is well placed to undermine this co-existence, this acceptance, the pursuit of hunting and the tolerance of hunting organisations. No one's gonna get me to do that. I would like to say one more thing about the argument that the Hunting Union of Slovenia has written on the proposal for a proposed law on game and hunting, with which I will say, with my left hand, they have eliminated all the dilemmas around landowners. This attitude is a little strange, if not very attractive to the hair. You have written, respected officials of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, that this dilemma is resolved by the fact that landowners are guaranteed a priority in the integration into the hunting family in the area where they have land. This gives them every opportunity to participate actively under the same conditions that apply to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that I think that I know the relationship between hunting families and the accession that a new member of the hunting family has to pay today, I must say that this priority right is even more questionable. Access to the individual hunting family is so great that, unfortunately and to the detriment of local communities where these hunting families operate, this elitist and increasingly elitist approach in the membership of hunting families takes place. That's very wrong. With hunting families getting older and the participation of members of the hunting families of the local population declining. Now, I will tell you, hunters are still threatened by this law, by the enforcement of which, I am sure, you will have the conditions for hunting and the acceptability of hunting to even worsen significantly to the detriment of those activities which are positive In this I am deeply confident. I ask again, or I would like to place on my heart the leaders in the Hunting Union of Slovenia, who, without any doubt, supported this bill if they have the mandate of all hunters to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Today a lot of words have been said about property, but ownership is not an absolute right and must therefore be exercised in accordance with the laws. One of the decisions of the Constitutional Court states that an individual is obliged to suffer restrictions on property rights, for example in a forest whose natural component has become free access, these are walks, limited collection of forest fruits and the like, of all people in the woods, regardless of who owns them. The law I cosigned will also be confirmed because in Slovenia 21 000 500 hunters are organized in 416 hunting families. I will support it for the purpose of the mission of hunting, for the purpose of hunting as a reasonable sustainable use of nature, for the sake of nature protection, as well as for a long, rich and good tradition, but mainly because of the permanent task and responsibility of hunters, this is the concern that the number and species of game are in balance with the housing and nutritional options. For all these tasks, hunters perform more than 1 million hours a year. Today there have been numerous accusations that we do not know how to listen to the owners. But in whose name does a group of owners come together, counting just over 100 members, when we know that the owners are over 350 thousand? And that the hunters oppose the bill. Since there are 21 000 500 hunters in Slovenia, each of us has a hunter in the family or among close friends. I have been addressed primarily by those who support the proposal, so I will also support it in their name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Partich is not here. Mr. Wolf, you want a word? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Even now it is clear that the law in the second reading is likely to make some changes so that it will need to be reformed, supplemented and amended. However, I believe that this law is a suitable basis for further consideration. I support the law mainly because it is based on some of the starting points that I personally support. Firstly, because it preserves those solutions that have proved to be good enough in practice and in the past, because the bill stipulates that wild game is state property and that hunting rights belong to the Republic of Slovenia, because, in my opinion, it is sufficiently appropriate to determine hunting grounds, and what is also important to ensure, in granting concessions to existing hunting families, a priority right. The main observation that was heard today is that this law ignores owners, that the law interferes with the ownership rights of owners. Once again, it must be stressed that ownership is not an absolute right and must be exercised by law. The constitutions of democratic countries protect property rights as a special form of material protection for human freedom. The legal systems in Europe have made it clear that the individual's freedom in the property field cannot be absolute, only for an individual, is said to be the owner, but that the interests of other members of the community must also be taken into account in the exercise of this right. This philosophy, this theory, has also been taken by our constitution. When quoting Article 33 of the Constitution, it must always be quoted under Article 67 of the Constitution because they are inseparably linked. The Forest Act has already regulated the rights of forest owners according to the purpose and use of forests in accordance with social function and gives free access and movement rights, as well as beekeeping, hunting and recreational harvesting of fruits, green plants, mushrooms and wild animals in the forest. Therefore, the law cannot be disputed in this part. It's over. Last but not least, I support this law because it is supported by hunters. The hunters, who have so far been very enthusiastic, have taken care of the ecological, social and economic functions of the game, according to my assessment, care and commitment. At the same time, it would be against the mind of one of the animal lovers who was written not long ago, which reads: "The care of game hunters is the same as the care of pedophiles for children." I believe that this is an unfair comparison, an insult, not just to hunters, but an insult to the fundamental philosophy of hunting based on the preservation, protection and sustainable use of species by hunting based on the care of natural balance, taking into account the leading role of man on earth. Would anyone compare the arrival of a bear to a kindergarten in Ljubljana, Maribor, Kočev with pedophilia? Is the amount of rabies vaccine comparable to pedophilia? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to the proposer, who has used most of the time in the first part when he introduced the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u256	I am convinced that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration, so we will try to draw up answers to all those observations and comments that have been made in the debate and to take some initiatives into account. I'm sure all those eyewitnesses who flew on this, if you've got something coming up, something going on, something going on over the Ministry, and something like that, you've got some motions, some primate, some authority to someone, far away from it. I am sure that caring for nature, caring for wildlings, caring for all the functions that need to be regulated in this law cannot be the subject of either one source or one party, let alone the zealous adherents of one or another ideology. Back in the Middle Ages, we probably won't go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u257	Your Honor! I ask if anyone else would like to discuss it, but it is important to know that we are voting on today's decisions at 22.05. So we have 10 minutes at our disposal. Two of them checked in. Every four minutes. First Mr. Merlo, then Mr. Sok. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u258	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I certainly support the basic principle of the bill's proposal that it preserves those solutions from the existing legislation that have proved appropriate and complemented them with the innovations in our legal order. These solutions have made a vital contribution to such preservation and to the condition of our wildlings that we are envied by a number of Western European countries. Even so, our bears have been successfully settled in one of the Italian national parks for now, while the repopulation of our bears in the French Pyrenees has fallen mainly due to opposition from local sheep and farmers. As an interesting thing to say, with the resettlement of our bears in the Pyrenees, even the French National Assembly was engaged in a night meeting and our bears have also helped to make our young country more visible in France, where we know that this is going quite hard for them than the old colonial state, but we have not been introduced to football. The main foundations of this law, in my opinion, are certainly state ownership of the game and the hunting right which belongs to the State which also grants it. I consider these two to be a civilizational achievement of our society especially because most Member States of the European Union have not yet been able or could have done so. This is why they have significantly worse wildlife preserved, without the great beasts they have exterminated decades ago. The departure from these two foundations of the law along with the reduction of the prescribed minimum size of hunting grounds, in my opinion, represents a major step into the unknown, most likely with catastrophic consequences for the conservation and protection of game and its living environment. I would also like to stress my support for the proposed legal arrangements for existing breeding grounds, which over the past 50 years have contributed a significant share to the conservation of all species of game, especially large beasts in their natural habitat. However, the question is whether today, without the existence of breeding grounds in the past decades, their bears could have settled where they were not able to keep them. I think it's very difficult. As one of the bill-makers, I am aware of some of his legal technical shortcomings. That is why any suggestion or assistance from the Government in the second reading is welcome. For the sake of our wildlings and their living environment, I will oppose any change in the two already mentioned foundations of this law. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u259	Thank you very much. And Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Some of the debates I have heard from Members today have sounded as if those who oppose such a bill have anything against Slovenian hunters. Not at all. I came to Parliament myself from the place of veterinary inspector and, of course, I have been very cooperative with hunters. I can say that Slovenian hunters are great lovers and nature protectors. Of course, you also meet those who do not meet these criteria. However, it is a minority, while most Slovenian hunters are mainly concerned about game, about nature, and that is, of course, to be said and acknowledged. I remember myself when Slovenian hunters actively participated in the suppression of rabies. Slovenia was the only republic within Yugoslavia that had a satisfactory solution to this issue, as far as the outbreak of rabies is concerned. That's what I'd like to say. This situation was also truly envied, I don't know, by neighbouring Austria or Italy, where they did not have such an effective control of rabies. What was that all about? It was the hunters who physically placed baits all over Slovenia and thus helped to intervene against this dangerous infectious disease. Things have changed in this area today and the procedures are significantly different. On the other hand, it is also necessary to say that Slovenian farmers, like hunters, care very well for animals, for game, and are also great fans of the Slovenian wild animal population. If they were not farmers, we would certainly not be able to talk about this good situation today, because only hunters would be essential enough to preserve it. These two things have always worked hand in hand. That is why hunters with landowners, farmers, were very well understood and well co-operated. Therefore, at this level, when we are discussing a new proposal for a law, all these facts must be taken into account and found a permanent solution that will not exclude the owners of agricultural land and forests in the way that this law does. If we adopt such a principle, then you can imagine that under changed sociopolitical conditions and conditions Slovenian hunting will never work again as it works. One part of the citizens will simply feel cheated, they can conclude that when they adopt such an important law as the law on hunting and the breed of game, they are simply released and in some way deceived. I'd get it over with. I hope that the applicants understand how important the area is and that you will prepare such a proposal for the second reading, which will also take account of the owners of agricultural land and forests. I wish you a lot of success in that. However, I must say that you were already quite late at this stage, and you could have put this matter on a different footing at the beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decision. If the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 10:05 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. At 22.05, we begin by voting on the motions for decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u262	Your Honor! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. Ambassador Sašo Pece proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Economy Dr. Tee Petrin to Saš Pečet's question on the protection of Slovenian workers at the time of entry into the European Union." Vote explanation, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u263	In the National Party, we assess that the subject of the proposed extension is so important that we ask that we wait for the vote so long that Members and Members of the National Assembly calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u264	Mr. Pece, I don't think your statement of reassurance is necessary. Members and Members are awaiting decisions. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u265	On the basis of the report of the Institute for Macroeconomic Analysis commissioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the situation at the time when Slovenia will enter European integration with 1.5, and on the risk of jobs, mainly due to the non-competitiveness of Slovenian companies, at the Slovenian National Party on Monday, we requested an extensive discussion on the protection of approximately 40,000 jobs or people who are precisely on the basis of such an analysis, i.e. the UMAR analysis, promising to lose their jobs. We estimate that the response given by the Minister of Economy in the context of the regular meeting of the National Assembly was neither satisfactory nor indicative of a solution to the situation. In the National Party, we propose to launch a debate on this issue, from which the Ministry of the Economy or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs may find a favourable solution or support the idea of the Slovenian National Party's proposal for workers' protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. I'm going to support my colleague's proposal. I believe that this is an issue that we will only face in some practical way. There are many companies from the European Union that are at the border waiting for this 1.5.2004. In particular, we can talk about the case, for example, of the manufacturing industry, of the food-processing industry, because that is where I see the Secretary of State. I think it's a topic worth talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr. Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Madam President. The fact is that the issue that Mr Sašo Pece, a fellow Member of the Slovenian National Party, demands further discussion is indeed burning. The fact is that he suggested that the debate be held in the presence of the Minister of Economy and I would extend this proposal. In fact, I would advise that Mr Dimovski, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, come to the National Assembly in this proposal. Actually, it's his department. In his department, they somehow avoid talking about 40 thousand additional unemployed people actually coming. These studies, which have been carried out, have been carried out on the responsibility of the Government, not on the responsibility of the Slovenian National Party, but by the Government, in particular the Ministry of Labour and Mr Dimovski, have been successful in hiding and concealing them. I don't think a country that doesn't care or prepares a program to save its own unemployed people, I don't think such a minister is fit for a part-time job if he doesn't care. But if he doesn't care, I think that you will all support the proposal to discuss this and together find the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Only, Mr. Noble, allow me, your performance has been incorrect. The question raised by Dr Tei Petrin is a question which Mr Pece would like to make a proposal to be done. This has nothing to do with the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Let me make it up to you, or if you want, I'll be perfect. I think it is in the interests of all, both Members and all ministries, among other things, that I will mention the Ministry of Regional Development without a resource to support such a debate, because everyone who knows how to develop a path when entering the European Union, how levels 0 to 3, how to allocate funds to which they are intended, what are business and employment orientations. I am convinced that it is in the interests of all ministries, all those who have anything to do with the development of this country, to support such a proposal and to give this content sufficient attention. Therefore, I personally say that I will absolutely support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote in favour of this proposal. I assume that it is very possible in the debate, I will not agree with certain positions that have so far been taken by the Slovenian National Party, but the issue they have raised is very important. For us in New Slovenia who truly believe and advocate for a market economy as part of a solidarity society that builds on social and personal responsibility, such a debate is still welcome. Above all, I would like to hear the views of our government, Madam Minister, who will respond on behalf of the government, and also the representatives of the great coalition, as they picture our future, the future of our economy. I hope that this debate will be held as soon as possible in this National Assembly, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u274	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of vote, so we can go to the vote on the proposal for a decision as presented. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 47. [[Twenty-four members voted in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Member Roman Jakič proposed a decision that reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, to Roman Jakič's question on the construction of a new paediatric clinic." Vote explanation, Mr. Jakič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat again, or it has been obvious that I was emotional, which I confess, and subjective, which I admit, so I also outlined my personal involvement in the problem yesterday when asking the question. But the pediatric clinic in Ljubljana is in fact a central institution in Slovenia, so to speak, a monopolist in the treatment of severely ill children. How and especially when to build a clinic is a question that escapes not only children, parents, but also Slovenian pediatrics in general. There is no real answer to that question, or a concrete answer, when construction will actually take place. However, there has never been any debate in this National Assembly to indicate the wishes or views of political parties on the issue of construction. I would also say that it is not a matter of funding, given that Minister Keber has answered and I thank him for having changed his mind about private-public financing for the new paediatric clinic. The issue of construction itself has become open. This construction itself, you will not believe, actually cost the state as much as it costs six to seven kilometres of Slovenian highway. That is why I call on colleagues and colleagues to support the initiative of the Minister to speak at the general debate and colleagues about the construction of a new paediatric clinic. I know it is not a position to take, but in spite of everything, to see once what politics in the National Assembly thinks about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in the following order: Mr Jelinčič, Barovic, Drobnic, Pece. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u277	Thank you very much, Madam President. Although Mr Keber will say anything again, deceive, lie, distort data, I am sure that it is necessary to call him and to say what he has to say, even though I do not think much. Maybe he'll be able to say that in LDS they were already selling pictures from their own, that's to say, from our joint former offices and from this ransom fund to build a pediatric clinic. But I don't know where that money is right now. The whole species is things that will have to be explained about this pediatric clinic, the money that disappeared, and a lot more. That's why we're judging, and I'm also judging personally that it's necessary for Minister Keber to come here. However, I hope that he will leave those lies that he used to spend on various marriages and, above all, on a white book somewhere outside. After all, it's about kids. If he doesn't care about children, we certainly don't care about the Slovenian National Party. And we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich. It's right that you did what you did yesterday. That's right. You've remembered a many years old story that I've remembered since the first day I proudly entered this house. The pediatric clinic has been a story in the past and is a story in the future. We want to close this book, but we don't know when it's gonna end. I will be very pleased to support Mr Jakič's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u281	Yeah, obviously, but we're not gonna say the same thing. We expected an answer in New Slovenia, I think two years ago. Ambassador Maja Zupan asked what was going on. Then some coalition partners launched a big campaign, what's going to happen, the pictures were wonderful. Television shows, the pediatric clinic is about to start building. It's been a while, and there's been a lot of water. Mr. Keber has said countless praises to his own work, but nothing has moved. But I don't know if now it's from the ruling coalition or from the LDS it's some form of interpretation against Minister Kebra. I don't know, maybe that's it, or we didn't suggest it, because that's the thing that's lost, because the ruling coalition decides, not by argument, but by whether you're ours or not. We will support this proposal because we hope that the Minister will finally bring answers to how he thinks about the pediatric clinic, which is still a castle in the clouds. And the mandate is expired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peche, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u283	My colleague Barovic told me that this is a story of the past and that unfortunately it is also a story of the future. But the fact is, it's because of liberal democracy that this is going to be the story of the future. This National Assembly could have resolved the issue of a pediatric clinic long ago when we met with an amendment providing funds for the construction of a paediatric clinic. But it is the most powerful party in this country that has made it impossible to allocate additional funds for this clinic. Where's the hoax, gentlemen? In the National Party, we will support the matter, just as we have every matter in the broad debate that we have felt dictates the need to develop our society. Unfortunately, gentlemen, this is the denominator of liberal democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Madam President. Me and my colleagues will be pleased to support Jake's proposal. However, I would just like to remind you that we have been putting amendments for this particular paediatric clinic for the past two years, and I think that Mr Jakič is the only one who has supported us or one of the few of the ruling coalitions that he has supported. For two years you've been calling us the populace, but now I see, I don't know if you're running water into your throat or thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support this because I don't think it's right for us to start politics on children, on sick kids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u289	Thank you very much. So far, I have never asked my minister questions practically in seven years, and this time I find it ironic to ask questions even if I do not use another term. Of course, I will not support and the debate is on this. Because it's going to go to a debate all the way I'd expect. However, I do not care that the budget memorandum, both on the title of the prime minister and on the 2003 balance sheet and on the 2004 budget, as well as on the 2004 balance, 2005 superlatives accompanied this project into the budget, not just by the Prime Minister, additionally by the Minister. I think that if this matter is not carried out in 2004, as we have been told, when the budget is presented on the working body concerned, the Prime Minister himself will come with the proposal to replace the Minister of Health soon in the spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. I will support this proposal for two reasons. For the first time, because I believe that politics should also deal with children's problems. Secondly, because the work or conduct of the government or ministry regarding the budgets that we are adopting here and each year setting quotas or funds for a paediatric clinic is so ignorant. It rejects and ignores nothing, and in general, because we never get an explanation why the government or the ministry would never take into account what we accept here in the budget. I think that this is an important issue, and on this issue a number of systemic issues would also open up and perhaps draw a little closer to a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u293	I will not support the proposal, because this debate will not solve anything, bring nothing, build a pediatric hospital before and listen to stories that will not judge this area and will not bring any solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u295	Thank you for your word. I, some of my colleagues, will support the proposal. Dear Members and Members! I think that the responsibility of individual ministers lies with Parliament, with the Member. Regardless of who comes from any party, whether it is a minister from his party or from any other party, the Minister has been given confidence by the National Assembly and this trust must be properly reported here and informed by the Member. I am therefore pleased that colleague Jakič has also proposed such a proposal and I will be happy to support it. In recent times, we have been able to witness that some ministers have behaved somewhat differently than our rules on the functioning of the legislative branch of power have written down in our rules. This responsibility must be assumed by ministers, and this attitude towards Members must be taken over. It is also our concern that we accept both budgetary memorandums and certain things that are attractive for this Slovenian society. And I'm sure this pediatric clinic is neat, necessary and needs to be talked about. If the Minister does not feel his responsibility, not even to his own Member, in order to get to know him properly and honestly, he should feel this responsibility towards the entire assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u297	Thank you very much. It would be difficult to say that as a member of Parliament I am not aware of, and that everyone else has the same opportunity as I do, especially the members of the Health Committee, whose obstacles, problems, or the state of the plans for the construction of the Paediatric Clinic. More than once, answers were given as to why the construction had not yet been made. Among them, the exact responses to the revision of the so-called project by Swedish scientists or physicians who participated in the review were sent to try to rationalise the construction itself, and several responses were also given that the intervention events within the oncology also led to a priority change. Maybe more times than we've ever received an answer about why we don't have a related, just as much-needed institution called NUK, about which answers somehow don't fall on our ears within the National Assembly. That is why I think, as a result of the precise explanations, not only of the Minister, but also of the Secretary of State for Health, what are currently obstacles to the implementation of the investment itself, is the acquisition of ownership rights, resettlement, eviction, blackmail and so on. In short, a lot of information has been given about this, but it is true that those who have heard it have heard it, and those who have heard it have problems today. That is why I do not need further clarifications at the moment; at the end of each year we are adopting a budget, this time a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u298	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 77 of us present, 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Explanations of votes in the order of order: Mr Mamić, Mr Bajuk and Mr Pece. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I will not support the law for a simple reason - I would give an initiative, but of course it does not fall on fertile soil - because so much time has not been spent on the money that was intended for this, said even strictly intended. Not even half of it was spent. I mean, if you were to consume that 20% of the gas that we pay more than the right price, which is the toll and so on. So if that money were to remain in the industry, we could save the highway program without any credit, rather than go into what the proposal is. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote against this decision. I have already mentioned the reasons in the debate. However, I would like to reiterate that this is the least-founded proposal that I have encountered in this national assembly in these three years. And I find it extremely irresponsible that this proposal should continue at all. In this proposal, we have two objectives that are clearly marked, and one, four, which is not. The first is that we should achieve this in order to lessen our public debt. This is so pointless, because we will certainly be in advance in this country under this leadership, which we have, mediating and using various accounting creativity and hiding data. But reality will come soon, how soon will it come to pass? The second objective is either a completely unfounded objective or a completely unfounded proposal that we should suddenly carry out additional matters within the framework of a programme that could already be implemented. Where is it, where is the prohibition in the law on public companies to prevent this? If Dars isn't doing this today, it's because he doesn't care. Thirdly, the less pronounced objective is to lose even more control of this national assembly over the functioning of this sector. The fourth, which is not indicated, is obvious that this is the basis for some privatisation of the company for motorways, which will only allow some gentlemen to take away what is profitable. However, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will remain accounted for. It is imperative that this State Assembly discuss this matter. This proposal, however, is the most irresponsible proposal I have seen in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall, and please don't disturb the speakers, please! Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u303	I don't mean to be offensive, but I do believe that the material applicant was not trained enough to carry out the vision he was about to carry out. The basic idea of sharing a public undertaking and a capital company is positive in any way in our system. In particular, given that a month ago the same ministry proposed a very contradictory solution in the field of aviation. But on the other hand, the solution, as offered in this law, is to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, bearing in mind that, in the same article of the law or in the same content of the law, despite the division into a capital society, i.e. a company of shares, they still refer to tasks. I quote: "It makes sense that highway management is treated as a whole and defined as a compulsory economic public service." From this out follows - Mr Jakič can please, if you calm down a little bit, thank you - it follows from this out that there is clearly an ambiguity or inexplicability of the bill's proponent. For, on the one hand, if the state decides to resolve the dilemma of economic public services and economic companies, this segment should of course be clear. In the national party, we estimate that none of the four proposed objectives pursued by the law, namely, for the first time, this is a division between the public and private sectors can be taken into account in this case. Because the fact is that the content of the law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u304	Please, it's full of us and all the conversations are actually seriously disturbing the debaters. Please. You have 30 seconds left, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u305	Look, I believe that the content of the economic situation in this country, liberal democracy and Mr Roman Jakić and the Chairman of the Committee on Home Affairs are of little interest. Still, I would like to talk about a subject as important as it is with us today. The fact is that the law does not pursue the objectives proposed in the content, which indicates that matter is unknown. We cannot say that this law, if adopted, will set a distinction between a public undertaking and an economic society. Because the fact is that in the content of laws or companies, the new DARS d.d., they impose obligations on public economic society. On the other hand, they also state that a country with the possible adoption of this law will receive a constant and neutral source of funding. It's Utopia, gentlemen. If it were so easy in our country to resolve the role of financing, and with this commitment to change the organisational form, then it would make sense to do so in all areas. The fact is that debt is, unfortunately, a long-term policy of the Slovenian government. And this law will lead to a lack of transparency between the economic public services and between economic companies, an even greater lack of transparency and thus a greater lack of transparency. Therefore, in the national party, we call on Members to reject this bill, to call on the government to accept the comments from the hearing when we discussed the meeting of the National Assembly and to prepare a new law, which will monitor the content, i.e. the idea content. This time, the law should be rejected by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u306	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We can move on to a decision, therefore to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 82 of us present, 55 votes against 24. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the bill on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the proposal for a law on collective supplementary pension insurance for civil servants, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of vote, Mr Barovic, Mr Kebrič, Mr Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I will explain why we will vote against the adoption of this law. This law is extremely a social one in its consequences, extremely unjust, constitutionally controversial, and I will prove it with all arguments. Firstly, instead of raising wages for 2, 4, 1 August this year, this will be turned into additional bonuses. These bonuses are very guilty, for those who are employed today or after August 1st will receive an additional premium for additional insurance, 4040 tolars. One who has been in the public service for 35 years will receive as much as 10,118. Two who have the same salary of $200,000 gross, one will get 4,040 tolars, and the other will get a premium of 10,118 tolars because it has so much more working time in the public sector, and so many times more if it is even 35 years old. Another case that will open your eyes, colleagues and colleagues is next. If one comes to work today in the public sector after 1.8., he will receive a premium of 4,040 tolars without considering that he is also 35 years of service. However, those who have the same employment in the public sector for 35 years and have the same salary will receive so many times more, in this case 8,848 tolars in 10 years of service. What's the logic here? Simple peasant logic? Where's justice for all this stuff? Not to mention that this law will affect between 650 and 700,000 people who depend on how much the second year of February or March they will receive an increase of 550,000 pensioners, about 80,000 unemployed, who receive compensation, not to mention all others who receive such and other social support, which depend on the movement of average wages in relation to those referred to in Article 150. If that is fair, if that is the case, I am sad and share the opinion of those who will be guilty and guilty if this law is passed, because I have not been able to convince you with all arguments. The next year you will cover your ears like now or your eyes so that you will not hear the crying, see those who weep, that you will not hear the howling, groaning when they come before Parliament, what kind of law this national assembly has adopted. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Please, we have two minutes to explain our voice in our name, three in so far as on behalf of the Group of Members. I very much ask that we are in this implementation within the time available to us. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. In the presentation of the Slovenian National Party on the Law on Collective and Additional Pension Insurance for Public Servants, I have already said, and in the Slovenian National Party we believe in the data we have that are increasingly finding that funds are not profitable. We said we didn't like the fact that there was no consensus between the unions. We have said that we have already opposed the law in July because of impreciseness and superficiality, and we have raised a number of questions that we have not received satisfactory answers to. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will not support this law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u311	We will not support this law in the New Slovenia Group. It's an enforced law. Earlier, the government had dealt with one part of the social partners, the others had cheated, and now they are selling it and forcing us into parliament to accept it. There's a lot of fog in here. Although I agree with Mr Kebric, Mr Kebric, this is probably the last phase of the pension reform in this mandate. You've all been involved in the past, you've been pressing keys, and that's why we have pensions like this. You will have to connect speaking and pressing keys and the matter will be much more transparent in the Slovenian space. On Brdo, DeSUS confirmed this bill, so I don't know why you've turned now - or were these arguments not in force before? It will reduce payments to the Health Fund, further reduce pensions, reduce revenue flows to the budget, so the Health Fund will continue to suffer further, contrary to pension reform. At the same time, the law also conflicts with the constitutional position. The premium limits are such that they do not comply with the parental law. In short, we do not want to legalise something that is not in line with the law, which is imposed and which is bad for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Well, I'm really glad that DeSUS is now against this law, even though they've been supporting this issue all the time, and even though they've actually given us a pension law that's hit us hard, and the pension reform is actually DeSUS's butter. But I'm glad. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u314	Mr Jelinčič, please, my colleagues remind me that when we explain our voice, we do not have the right to argue with others, but to explain our attitude towards the bill. Please, let's stick to this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u315	No, I'm not. I'm just trying to figure it out. These are the facts that are written in all the rapporteurs, so I think this is already a known fact. However, we have also convinced ourselves in the Slovenian National Party that this law is completely flawed. We note that we will be Slovenians and Slovenians, those who have done this and who want to do it, not those who have been erased who will get it for free, but those who have done it will be further hit by this law. I don't know, man has this feeling that the ruling oligarchy only thinks about how they're going to put up certain storage units that they're going to empty when they're sitting next to the stones and they're going to have their feet cold. I mean, it is sad that this is happening in Slovenia and that this is happening in Slovenia in the 21st century. What is even more sad is that poor Slovenian citizens are allowed to make such a nuisance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u317	In our assessment, of course, in the case of the proposal for a law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants, it is a much broader issue than has been raised so far. It is a question of the rights holders of so-called or fund rights. And as long as this National Assembly listens to the instructions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus treats people as rightholders, more individuals who run these funds will only be disorderly in our country for so long. In the national party, we also assess that the dispersion of performance is, of course, completely flawed. On the one hand with transparency and, on the other hand, with credibility, which is the final phase, I regret to point out, regrettably, always reflected in the so-called deficit of such funds. In the national party, we are convinced that the substance of the said law not only affects the substance of the pension reform but unfortunately interferes with the wider substance of the so-called public finances system. And what we Members of the National Assembly demand from the government is what we get from the government. Unfortunately, we estimate that the members of the National Assembly in all such areas are, of course, quite underactive. And in this particular area, which is reflected in the past and in the past work, it will only be reflected in a negative form. In the national party, we are convinced that a proposal for a law should be rejected, that it should approach a system that will mainly reflect the first and basic stages of the rights of carriers and the identification of carriers. For as long as we do not have the right holders of this title, we will not have any transparency that results, of course, in deficits and negative consequences for those fund-holders to whom such funds are intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u318	Thank you very much. We've heard the explanation of the voices. We can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 75 of us present, 40 votes against 33. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Proposal of a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, which on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia - the first reading is suitable for further consideration." Mr. Jelinčič the Noble, explain your voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u319	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, we oppose this law. It is the abuse of the political power of coalition parties who want to gain additional voters. And on this account, that the remaining citizens, who have been honest, who have respected the laws, will be struck by the pocket and those who have cheated and who have spat on our country, will be granted all-powerful, including financial means, the so-called compensation. Unfortunately, the government is also assisted by the media when Mr Bohinc and Mr Krivic have asked Ljubljana TV to broadcast on so-called write-offs, no representative of the Slovenian National Party may participate, otherwise they will not participate. Even this far goes for gentlemen of ruling species. And yet these ruling gentlemen spit in the face of all those honest people who settled their citizenship in 1991, 1992 and later. These are the people who decided to take the legal path back then. It seems that in Slovenia there is a legal path, in fact a wrong path. And instead of all those internal ministers who allowed certain gentlemen to live illegally in Slovenia for 10, 11 years to be brought to justice by all those ministers and punished for disrespecting their own work, we now give these gentlemen, I don't know what. I wonder if it is really possible for us in Slovenia to care so much for everyone but the Slovenians?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. Nobleman, you've exceeded three minutes for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u322	Mr. Barovich, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u323	Once again, about 11,000 escaped, about 18,000 speculated. I do not grant them any rights, I speak for myself, I do not make excuses, and I do not support any compensation. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u325	As far as it has been heard from the explanation of the voice of my two fellow Members, Mr Jelinčič and Mr Barovic, we estimate that the law is written on the wrong basis, at the wrong starting point. The law is written on the ground that there were injustices. But the fact is, there was no injustice. According to our assessment, even Guilty should not be. But of course, this is another story in the national party, and also, if we leave only the content on the side that I consider that many Members have proved that it is more than controversial. That the content that sheds a bad light on the independence of our country and which brings our country down in all international integrations. For the fact is that that nation that is ashamed of its own history is not worthy of even a wee nut. Regardless of what individual MEPs say, Europe expects us to be generous. I am sure that Europe expects us to be generous primarily in the first phase with regard to the Slovenians and Slovenia, so that we can provide them with jobs so that we can provide them with all those living conditions so that they can be equivalent to European partners. But, of course, this is not enough for the majority in this national assembly. However, we look formally and legally formally at the fact that the law does not meet any of the required criteria of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And if we stop only with the financial consequences and other consequences of the proposed act, we see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in implementing the so-called Constitutional Court decision, which we consider to be disputed, has come out through all the powers and legal instructions, of course, these legal or financial consequences are not defined anywhere. And to adopt a law that we know only the upper limit of financial consequences - this ceiling is 800 billion Slovenian tolars - seems irresponsible to us in the national party. It shall not provide a resource for such obligations other to provide when the budget is adopted or at the time the budget is presented. In fact, we all know that these funds will pay people, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia through the practice that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been constantly forecasting over the past three years, either through an increase in existing taxes or through the introduction of new taxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u326	Thank you so much for the performance. In order of order you have applied to the word; Mr Mamić, Mr Yuri, Mr Lavrinc. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u327	Thank you very much. I'm probably the only one here who could be erased because I was born in Dalmatia. Just when it was necessary to obtain or apply for citizenship, I was interested, and I tried to help my fellow countrymen, as well as all others who had the same status as me. I wouldn't judge these people like they were meant to be. Some are ignorant, others have been tactful, others don't know what's going on, and so on, one four categories, I think. After all, I feel sorry for those people. But I think that Slovenian legislation is such that they would come to citizenship nicely even now without any major problems. I am in favour of giving them citizenship, but without that terrible money. These are things that are very important to think about. I don't know, 600 billion, and even Mr. Peca says 800 billion. You know what that means? These are astronomical numbers. That's one quarter of our external debt, we know that about $12 billion is our external debt. Or any beneficiary would have a mansion for that money worth 33 to 35 million. Do you know what that is? It's over 200 square meters of residential space and 1000 square meters of plot, and that's super luxury. That's why I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u329	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief. First, I would like to remind again, in further discussions, that we are talking about residence and not citizenship. That's one thing. Second. I am one of the few in this room, perhaps ten, fifteen of us who participated in a meeting of the national assembly or then of the republican congregation in 1990, when, unfortunately, they created the conditions that led us to blame some of the injustices on the people we are talking about. These 18,000 were not least invited, they received an invitation to participate in the plebiscite. This right was granted to them, and at that time all assurances were given that no one would be deprived of even the smallest right. Later, what happened unfortunately happened. That's why I'm going to support the marriage because, at least in part, unfortunately, too late, it's trying to remedy the situation that we did at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u331	Thank you so much for saying that. The fact is that we are correcting the mistakes made by Peterlet's government and all those who voted for that law at the time. That's a fact. The third chapter of the Basic Constitutional Charter states: "The Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality, without any discrimination, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force." It is now a special paragraph for the Italian and Hungarian national communities. With these conditions, we went our separate ways. We went to Europe under such conditions. If someone has miswritten the law and has not dealt with each individual case individually and has tried to eliminate thousands of people, of course, it has to be corrected once. And that's what we're doing now. That's what I'm gonna say. I'm not a visionary to know how much it's gonna cost, but it's gonna cost a lot. But those who were then in this room, in this room, in a slightly different hall, gave their vote for such a foolish marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u333	I'm not going to give any reasons why I won't support this marriage because I'm already in the clear. I'd just like to give you one more key. If this law were general to all eraseds occurring after World War II, if this act had the criteria of universality, generality, symmetry and true legality, it would be supported. But since it's not, I won't back him up. You know what this is all about, and there's no point in accepting such smug laws, unconstitutional laws, and I don't know what else.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u334	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u335	Well, I won't support this marriage. The acts cited by some clearly stated that all those who have permanent residence in Slovenia at the time of Slovenian plebiscite have the right to Slovenian citizenship. And everyone could get that right. In no constitutional or other instrument has anyone been guaranteed that the country we have declared may attack, leave it and then come back and demand all rights. We didn't give those guarantees to anyone. Demos's government is to blame for many things, even for having its own country, and for guaranteeing such rights will not be to blame. I will also not support the law because, if it is implemented as proposed, it will produce the most expensive voters of the united list and liberal democracy as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u336	Mr. Sok, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u337	I also think, if someone didn't want to settle matters when it was time, today, say here that Peterlet's government is to blame, that's insolence. It's just a statement like this that I'm equal to for impudence. And if you, the ruling coalition, will adopt the law, [[...]] [[The voices in the background.]] [[... ...]] [[Laugh.]] This, once again, I repeat that this statement is a merciless statement, whether Mr Lavrinc understands this as an insult or not. [[...]] This is exactly the kind of insult that Peterlet's government is responsible for. Now you're gonna be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u338	I'm asking you nicely for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u339	adopt one law that will allow those who now acquire citizenship after this law to initiate some huge lawsuits, money, against this country, and you will blame the government of Peterlet! [[...]] Come on, a healthy person can't understand that. That's the kind of proposal he's weak! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it's 11:00 p.m., slightly inappropriate, and I think we're all becoming. I'm asking you to calm down. I listened well to a statement that says she's guilty and so on. [[...]] The thing was neutral. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Rokavec, please. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to adopt this bill, I'm not going to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u342	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u343	I will not vote in favour of this bill. [[...]] However, I will not vote because this law is the result, including the assessments that some in this House have made in the election, or the composition of the current constitution of the Constitutional Court. At that time, we pointed out that in the case of valuations, it would also be possible to evaluate the composition and definition of the current composition of the Constitutional Court. I believe that this law is also a very unfortunate attempt to implement this decision, these institutions and I think that this country will pay very dearly and I do not see, but the need for these persons to have the opportunity to obtain all the necessary evidence, documents at the time, only if they have not speculated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please. Then Mr. Potts and Mr. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u345	Thank you very much. I will support the law because I will support every law that enforces the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Even those 16 who are supposed to be waiting for entry into force. We cannot judge, this is also one of the reasons, I have already said this before today, we cannot judge constitutional decisions through what they cost. We must implement the constitutional decision, and of course the constitutional decision must be implemented as it is written. If we come to say it, this constitutional decision is more expensive, we will not implement it, but it is a little cheaper, and let's give it this, then we are far from the rule of law. And I don't want to be very far away from this rule of law, but I would like to have a legal state as it should be. By the way, the financial consequences that, if they do, will be the financial consequences of those mistakes at the time, not of this law that we are adopting today. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Madam Vice-President, I apologize, but I would really like to ask that one of the unarticulated voices that I hear here, you're trying to mitigate at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u346	Please, on behalf of the speaker, who has the right to have peace in the Chamber, to calm down and allow him to carry out his work to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u347	Besides, I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u348	Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u349	Thank you very much. To explain the votes made by some colleagues, they point either to a marked lack of knowledge of the problem or to an explicit pretense to justify their ideological definition of being against these people. Indeed, after they had not opted for citizenship, they had the possibility of applying foreign status under a law that we had also adopted. How, gentlemen? So, first of all, as if they had come to our country to apply for a permanent residence, they had to prove that they had a working period, of course they could not do so because they did not have a permanent residence to care for them. And on this basis, ensure that for at least three years, after amendments to the law for 8 years, they have a temporary residence and then obtain a permanent residence again. This was the path that the law required. And this path was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. And we need to be aware of that, and we need to fix this road today. I don't want to talk about whether it was hot or not, or good or bad, it just turns out it was unconstitutional. And anyone who wishes to see this situation objectively knows that it can be different definitions of people, but also those who have not been able to do this calvary before the public authorities, and it is therefore right that this country corrects these injustices. Let's stop telling the truth, let's define ourselves, and let's solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Skull, then Dr. Bernick. Mr. Sculpture, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage because it's necessary to solve two problems. Of course, when explaining the law, I would also like to explain what I am constantly saying, in what way and who was involved. These matters are important in the way that Comrade Petty Officer here says that in 50 years no one will wonder who it was and will cover the general Parliament or the government or anything. But this does not have a personal connection with the law, and the law will address two important situations. One is that it will remove the legal void that has arisen, and we know how it is, and the other is that it will eliminate the illegal erasure. Speaking of illegal deletion, it is necessary to know that those people had no choice, as is said here today, that they could apply for some status so that they could complain after some procedure because they did not receive any decision to move, as is now said, from the record to the record. It is therefore necessary to make this law to put an end to these things. Of course, other discussions will open up, but believe me, if these 18,000 were able to produce, as is now said to be between 600 and 800 billion in the bad 10 years, then the mistake of those who deleted them was even greater because other parts of the population had created significantly less at that time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u353	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. First, I would like to say that I am well aware of the human side of this, if we call it, tragedy, and undoubtedly there were many people who were caught up in this situation, but not all. The state has a duty to find out and see who it was. Many of us Slovenians have been erased for many years, this previous regime of yours has taken care of it, and personally I have been erased for 50 years. To this day, no one has ever apologized to me. I have not filed any complaints or anything like that, even though there is no possibility. But in all this discussion, one understands that something has to be done. However, I think that the government certainly has more brains than it has shown in this marriage and that it could do better. But if, as it seems, there is a terrible duality in this whole thing, then there is no hope that this thing can be arranged. Indeed, we do not take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, we are very stingy to the Slovenians in the world. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] The financial problems that some have put forward for this problem are great and also have great benefits.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u355	Thank you very much. All I'm going to say is that the Constitutional Court ruled politically. And here one of these Members sitting here today said for the last time that the previous Constitutional Court did nothing, but the present one did something - and we know why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u356	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of the vote on the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the decision that the proposal of the law is Mr Yaša, please choose an explanation for the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u357	I will vote in favour, of course. And I am ashamed that we can see here Members who should be our comrades, but act like ordinary hyenas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u358	Please, Your Honor, let's stop this kind of bet. These are real insults. It's only right that we keep an eye on the words we say here. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I'm asking the technical services to come to Dr. Bayuk's voting device and check it out. Maybe it burned because of too much pressure. We are once again voting on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 76 of us present, 50 votes against 24. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - with the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and N Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation - the first reading is suitable for further consideration." Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u359	In the national party, we assess that the proposal for a law is suitable for a positive hearing at the first session. In particular, given the fact that subsidisation of student nutrition has been shown to be positive and that it makes sense to summarise the scheme of such subsidisation at a lower level as well. On the other hand, for a second reading, to the extent that, of course, it will occur, to the extent that the members of the national assembly and the members of the national assembly will show a sufficient degree of elasticity and will not, as Mr Borut Pahor, leave the meetings of the national assembly during the vote, pursue the following objectives. The first is that students are justified up to one of the subsidised meals per day, which would indicate or make it possible for families and individuals to have an easier and better educational process, which we estimate at least in the national party, that it must be the essence and foundation of a future society. We will support the bill in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Some, a hardly unknown Member, had previously called some hyenas. I would like to know what he will call those who will vote against the diet of students against subsidising the diet of Slovenian students. I'm really curious! What's it gonna be, I don't know what kind of animal it's going to be, or what's going to be, or what else? Whether he will reward them with some very kind invitation, I don't know, for coffee or something, because they voted against Slovenian students. I think it's reasonable and necessary to support this law. Let us support him and then arrange him for further consideration. However, this will show who some are and for whom some are parties. We know. I am sure, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we know how they will vote. And then all you have to do is compare. A ballot when they voted for foreigners and a ballot when they voted for Slovenian children. I hope that voters will be able to compare this and make the right decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs. Tisovic, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u363	Thank you very much. From all the debate we have had today, it was clear that it was necessary to arrange for high school students to have a proper, healthy diet in one way or another. Since no one has ever given any law, and now he has come to the hearing of the law, I will support this bill, even though I am convinced that it must be complemented by a quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Grandchild. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u365	Thank you for your word. My colleagues and I will support this proposal, as we have already said, and in view of today's debate, we have been able to hear that some Members do not care where we get 600 billion, but they are doing great problems when it comes to a substantially smaller amount. And I think that these poor 10 billion, for a student diet, and we'll find somewhere to go, and I'll say, I don't care where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u366	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Ah, Mr. Mogue, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u367	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I was proud when I was able to vote for the first school toll, which we also devoted to school nutrition, including 27 billion. Even when we voted almost unitedly for the second school tolar, with 36 billion, I was proud. I was proud, too, when we voted for the third school toll of 167 billion in this reference, and we accepted it. My colleague Tanko was mildly sensitive to a particular problem, and I felt that his law, which he requested for transport, was so good that it could be corrected by an amendment, and I voted for this law, and we also adopted this law. However, I personally believe that this law does not fall under the Student Food Act, for the first time that the solutions and these things are so bad, the young party has pointed out that it does not show the adoption of the law that has been tabled. It seems to me he's so inquality that it's free now to waste time, to confirm him, and then I don't know which way to fix him, so I'm not gonna support this law like it is. I mean, well, respected colleagues always say that I'm always very sad when kids take advantage of 4 P's. This is for the political pre-election propaganda programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u368	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard explanations of vote. Mr. Diaca, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u369	Thank you for your word. I have to say the following. In my debate, I mentioned two key and important points previously, which should be settled in, I am still sure, in a roof law that would actually regulate this matter. However, it is a fact that even within this framework, matters can be settled, but this will be much more difficult. That's what I'm stressing. I will vote in favour, for a simple reason, because I hope that in this way I will help to deal with matters properly when we deal with the roof law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u370	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u371	Well, I didn't intend to make an announcement in explanation of vote myself, but I think it's worth it, because we've all found in the debates that it's a big problem, that it's a problem that hasn't been solved in years. The Armada of 100,000 high school students in this area is not visible to anyone. However, I was slightly struck by this debate by Mr Mojet. I think in this marriage, the four Ps are easy to swallow and forget. Governments have had a chance, including yours for 10 years to do anything. But obviously it's more than 4 times P on that side because she didn't do it. I think we could also afford it, given the amount of money we spend on the various unnecessary nonsense that we have under hand and quickly accept in this national assembly. One important project, one important problem, we are not able to solve under any circumstances. It is clear that the proposal is a key issue in this National Assembly and it will be a long time before this situation is rectified in this area. Also because of those p's that can continue with different picks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u373	I wasn't going to call, but you know, I don't think it's fair. Four p's. All that is good for Slovenian children is political propaganda, which is good for someone else, is not political propaganda. I'm not worried about the four P's, but I'm worried about the hunger of the children. Also, living in such an environment, sometimes without law, there is a need to subsidize a number of other things, not just nutrition. I think that now four ps, to speak in this case if the law in this treatment is bad, or could be better, but we still have time, just not to reject it now because of the four ps. [[...]] Let's think about how much people give for their children and how hungry they are and how hungry they are. And let's change the law so there's not going to be four p's, but there's going to be four x's of benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u375	Thank you very much. I personally feel very bad because it's going to look like I'm against the young, against the students who are growing up, who are shaped like human beings, like the body, like the content. But I'll be honest with you. If the proposalr had a genuine and serious intention, he would have made this law a law otherwise. If we want to give this law the content which is justified for a good and necessary purpose, we cannot practically implement it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this basis. If that's what we want, let's add to this law what the proposer wants. I also said, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the purpose is good, then we will solve this matter very quickly by means of a serious government as it is appropriate. And this time, I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u376	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u377	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to come by myself, but since I hear so much about this marriage, I'm gonna say a few words. The fact that a purpose is good, and then the matter does not turn out well, we have listened to it in the previous term, how things need to be resolved, systemically, in the long run, in a comprehensive way. And that marriage was never like that. The one someone else is going to make, and he's not ready yet. We've got a lot of problems here. Some talk about feeling unwell, even poor nutrition sometimes means feeling unwell. Now what I wanted to say. In our previous marriage, we confirmed with such ease all that was involved in being erased. That means such an amount that our children could have a free lunch at school for 80 years. For what it's worth, you might decide one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavtičnik, please, then Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u379	Thank you very much, Madam President. I won't support marriage, even though I worked for 20 years for children, with children, and I love children. However, I will support the budget and I hope that you will support it too, because in the budget we will provide 7% of GDP for education. And in this school we will be able to support all those programs and projects that will benefit our youth. We built schools from the school tolar, as well as from education funds. From these means, we allocate means of transport as well as food. We provide funds for projects as well as for the content and modernisation of school premises. Of course, we don't have to do everything at once. As I have already said, we have built and made good conditions for the school, and now we will also be able to contribute to improving school nutrition. Of course you can't do that overnight. I will not support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u381	I will support this law, and I will also propose where a large part of the money is made for its funding. In September, a government plane was to land on Brnika. This plane did not land, the Slovenian government is paying for a hiding place for this plane or parking lot at the same time paying the company it hired to sell the plane while building a hanger on Brunika for the aircraft it intends to sell and is therefore paying the company that is supposed to sell the plane. If the government were to bring these things together logically, it would save a large amount of money and could be used to feed the students. It would be very good if this issue were finally resolved. Now, I know my colleague Jakič is going to clear my demagogies, but if you solve this issue, we won't be able to read your plane, and you won't be able to read it to us. So bring this plane to the country where it was paid, market free capacity and make money on it, not to be paid now to hide the plane, to pay for the company that was supposed to sell it and to build the hangar for the plane you are selling.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u382	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u383	My friend Janša is a real fortune teller. He knows exactly what I'm gonna say. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, I know, 'cause he polyminates with me when I haven't even talked yet. I wanted to explain my voice, namely that I will not support the law for a simple reason, because I think, for the first time, that it is systemicly disorderly, secondly, that it does not belong to the law on subsidisation of student diet, it should be either a special law or, of course, a much better one. Finally, the law on financing education and education already in Article 81 provides an opportunity to grant such primary, kindergarten and, of course, secondary and apprenticeship meals. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already earmarked 300 million more funds for this year, half of which for secondary schools. I believe that if we compare where the money is from, of course, I do not see any problems for an additional 7 billion if we want to provide food for 100,000 secondary schoolchildren. I already said today that we can provide it in a way or a comparison so that the denationalisation subsidy could be 130 years. Finally, I think that money could also be obtained from any trade that has not yet been explored in this National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, because a lot of money that could be spent on subsidies, as I am informed, has landed in the private pockets of some officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-28-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Respected and respected, I think we can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the law is suitable for further consideration. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. There are 78 of us present, 27 votes against 49. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of today's agenda, which is the first reading of the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We decide on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 80 of us present, 54 votes against 24. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you all very much! I am adjourning the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
