ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning! I begin the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Mr Jakič, Mr Janša, Mr Kebrič, Mr Partljič, Mr Peterle, Mr Štemberger, Mr Švagan, Mrs Possonceva from 14:00 on and Mr Bozič. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE RIGHT PROCEDURE LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There's a Justice Minister here, Mr. Bizjak. And I give the government the time to further explain the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. You therefore have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on fair procedure, which the Government is proposing in particular due to three sets of issues. All three, however, refer to decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are both in one decision on the law of justice and in two other decisions on the law on judicial fees or the law on marriage and family relations, have decided that certain provisions are not in accordance with the Constitution. Thus, this law refers, on the one hand, to the decision of the courts in family matters. It is therefore a matter of transferring decision-making, transferring competences in family matters from social work centres to the courts. This is based on the substantive provisions of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations. Of course, it is also appropriate to amend the provisions of the law on fair procedure. The second issue to which the amendments relate is the question of the payment of a judicial fee as a procedural assumption. By repealing the first paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on Judicial Fees, the determination of the payment of the fee as a general procedural assumption has been abolished and it is therefore necessary to redefine in this Act the application for which the payment of the fee is a procedural assumption. Finally, the third issue that we are solving with this novel is the issue of exempting legal persons and independent entrepreneurs from legal fees. This issue has been raised by repealing Article 168 of the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which is now necessary or should be duly remedied in order to ensure equality between legal persons and individuals in relation to other parties appearing before the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Internal Policy. I ask the rapporteur, the President, Mr Lavrinc to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! As we can see, it's a short marriage. It's understandable to everyone. The report, which needs to be presented, speaks in particular of the fact that we were familiar with the views of our legislative and legal services and on the basis of these views - that is, the opinion of the Political System Commission, that I should not forget the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia - and that, on the basis of the views of the legal and legislative service, the amendments which the Committee has adopted have been prepared in the professional sphere, so to speak, and so on, the proposal for a law proposed by the Committee to the National Assembly has been supplemented before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mrs Maja Zupan, New Slovenia - or who else? Okay, let's move on, Mr. Vnučec, he's not here either, Mr. Petan, the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current law on judicial procedure has been in force since 1999, which means that it has barely taken effect. The reason for the proposed amendments should be or only be in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which refer to three sets of issues. In doing so, I would like to stress the general fact that in our judicial system something is more severe. This law is just a tool or a tool for the work of that system. As it turns out, something is also changing in this area and this is positive, of course, I do not think of it as a trend that there is something better in the system, but we have allowed ourselves to pour pure wine. Until recently, it has been forbidden to talk about problems or non-functioning or, I don't know, bad solutions in this system. Immediately there was talk of interference with the independent judiciary. If it is to this effect that we have allowed ourselves to pour pure wine or have this pure wine imposed on us, then we can regret that he did not come to Slovenia earlier because he was here for three years. The opinion of this judge was, of course, very critical and, therefore, such a violent reaction of the affected. We hope that the change we are talking about will also help improve the system. Of course, we can ask ourselves why we must continue to amend legislation that we have only recently adopted. Despite the fact that we have always claimed to have one of the best, most modern legislation in this area. Unfortunately, we now find that this is not always the case and that we must continue to correct the legislation because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as if these legislations that we have adopted were not prepared by experts, as if they did not know that the matter could also come before a constitutional judgment and so on. The first area of change should be in family matters because the social work centres obviously did not play the role assigned to them by law or legislation, particularly when it comes to legislation with jurisdiction in marital disputes and disputes between parents and children. The jurisdiction of decision-making is transferred to the courts, which, of course, I will say, is a serious criticism of social work centres. We can hope that things will not now be resolved with the current update of this system, because then children will be older than the disputed situations of relations between both parents. Another area that is changing is the payment of a court fee as a procedural assumption resulting also from a decision of the Constitutional Court. The amendment is intended to define for which applications under this Act the payment of a fee as a procedural assumption. In doing so, we can also see that we have already had very pervasive legislation. The same could be said for the exemption of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs for whom clear rules should be laid down by this amendment, so the motioner says, so it is only now that we will lay down clear rules, now obviously this has not been the case. Thus, we can only hope that these changes that we are considering today will be better and, of course, more European and that we will not later find that they are even unconstitutional and that they are inconsistent with the Constitution and that, of course, they can have irreparable consequences and that we will correct them again. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose these changes, but we will vote in the way anyone thinks it is right and right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the combined list will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the UK Group, we support the Government's decision to propose only the most urgent amendments and additions to the law on fair procedure, because we believe that they cannot be delayed because they are the result of decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which has found, directly or indirectly, that certain legal provisions are not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This has also been the case in the case of a recent amendment of the Law on Judicial Fees, although in both cases the proposer announced the need for a new more thorough intervention in both laws. The law under consideration relates to three content sets, where it is particularly important for us in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats that a new regime be established at procedural level, introduced by amendments to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, whereby in all cases, when parents do not live together and cannot agree on the protection and upbringing of the child, the court decides on this issue. This also transferred powers from social work centres in the district court. This will enable the district courts to set up family departments that will decide everything within their jurisdiction in this area. So also on the contact and survival of children, on the seizure or restriction of the right of contact where the child’s benefit so requires. In doing so, the decision on the child's interest, as our adopted International Convention on the Rights of the Child also imposes, will be burdened by conflicts of interest, as the Ombudsman has pointed out in the past. The other two content sets are also linked to the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is the payment of a judicial fee as a procedural assumption and the exemption of a judicial fee for legal persons and independent entrepreneurs by individuals. The Law on Judicial Procedure, adopted in 1999, was amended and supplemented last year in accordance with the findings of the case-law in the implementation of certain provisions on service, costs of proceedings, delays in judgment and remedies, and in the case of family-law disputes and economic disputes. The main objective of the amendments and additions was then to extend the possibility of alternative or peaceful dispute resolution. This, however, led to a reordering of the provisions on judicial settlement and the imposition of a settlement order. Since the new law and its first amendment and additions, we have pledged shorter and more effective judicial procedures in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, which should also help to address the generally known problem of judicial backlogs. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has begun to consider possible further changes to the judicial procedure in order to ensure the earliest possible judicial protection of rights through procedural rules. However, as it shows that the announced changes in individual parts will significantly affect the existing process, we support the government's decision that the preparation of possible changes will continue and that the theoretical and professional basis for them will need to be verified in public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The Justice Procedure Act is accompanied by a desire to improve efficiency and reduce judicial backlogs. The same desire was accompanied by the basic law of 1999, but we can see that this desire has not come true. So probably no one wants more than in the parliamentary group to make Slovenian courts effective. Indeed, it is possible that one piece can be achieved through the adoption of this law within this mosaic of the efficiency of the Slovenian judiciary. Therefore, in advance, I say that we will not oppose the law that even more, that legislative change at least this time will prove to be positive and that the judiciary will not be the sole culprit for its inefficiency in politics and in the mother of the laws. In addition, it should be pointed out that, just last week, we have further rewarded the judiciary with the necessary financial resources. On this basis, we estimate that we are in politics, in the executive and legislative branches of government on a good path, to establish those quality and solid foundations on which the court should carry out its task, as stated in the Constitution and as enshrined in Slovenian legislation. As far as this law is concerned, it is necessary to say that the purpose of the novel is only double, according to our assessment, also, as is clear from the Rapporteur, an explanation; these are new powers and transfers of individual powers. However, as regards the content work that the proposer and representatives of the other parliamentary groups have divided into three parts, it is reasonable to point out in individual parts certain dilemmas or fears that we see in the national party the possibility of having them. Firstly, in the context of the decision-making of the family courts, the Ministry, as a proposal for the law itself, transferred the powers from the social work centres to the judiciary. So the transfer of competences, which, according to our assessment, is due to the inefficiency of social assistance centres. Therefore, why this inefficiency has occurred, there are probably reasons, but at least in the national party we are pleased that, in this way, at least in judicial proceedings, we will achieve a more correct and comprehensive project or approach and exclude those factors that, according to our assessment, have contributed to the individual delaying of the so-called procedures. However, below the first point of content, it is our view that the concentration of future work in the so-called family courts should be highlighted. And we are putting forward a dilemma that can happen, that it is with this kind of desire and the tendency to concentrate decision-making in one place that we can unfortunately achieve negative, that is to say, the issue of increasing judicial backlogs. According to our assessment, we should, of course, improve the quality of the matter in a particular chapter that deals with this type of content. Furthermore, under point 2 of the substance sets defined by the amendment of the law, the payment of a judicial fee as a procedural assumption can also be pursued or felt in the air by pursuing a second objective or question, or thus deprived of the right of judicial protection by poorer citizens. According to our assessment, this is, of course, so loosely, in the draft law and there could be a positive answer to this question, which of course means a departure from the established way and from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the worst of all, we would approach the fact that judicial protection is possible or the power to buy. In the third area, i.e. the assessment of the judicial fee, the exemption of the judicial fee for legal persons and independent entrepreneurs or individuals, it can only be found that this part follows the decision of the Constitutional Court referred to in Article 168, which is positive in any way. To conclude, I would like to say that in the national party we will support the proposal for a law and sincerely hope that this law, like several of the last laws on behalf of this year or during this year and the previous year and, of course, the decision in connection with the 2004 and 2005 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, when we have earmarked additional funds for the functioning of the judiciary, will lead to quality decision-making and to a reduction in judicial arrears. In doing so, I should point out that both external observers and local experts in the situation in the judiciary have not criticised or highlighted the lack of these two solutions, but have, of course, highlighted the permanent mandate of the judiciary. We therefore estimate that, of course, this proposal will not lead to a definitive solution, but it can point to a positive direction, so we will support the bill in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of liberal democracy will be presented by Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u12	Dear Minister, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on judicial procedure is needed primarily because of the proposed amendments and the addition of the law on marriage and family relations which provide for the transfer of certain powers in family matters from the social work centres to the courts. This also requires appropriate harmonisation of the provisions of the law on fair procedure governing the actual jurisdiction and procedure in legal disputes and disputes between parents and children. The formation of family departments in district courts as specialised decision-making departments in these cases will enable better implementation of the child benefit principle. The principle of the benefit of the child must be a fundamental guide for parents, other persons, public authorities and holders of public authority to decide on all activities and procedures relating to the child. The second set of proposed amendments and additions follows the decision of the Constitutional Court and lays down the obligation to pay court fees as a procedural assumption in a fair procedure for individual types of applications, so that these applications are explicitly mentioned in the law. Therefore, the applications for which the payment of a court fee is a condition for judicial protection are explicitly cited. If such a fee is not paid, the court shall consider the application withdrawn. We also support a change that enforces the principle of predictability in the procedure. In any event, the Court must call on the applicant to complete or correct the application while at the same time drawing attention to the legal consequences if he fails to comply with the court’s request. The third set of proposed amendments and additions is also followed by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which annulled Article 168, paragraph 6, in so far as the charges for bringing an action are concerned. Following the repeal of that provision, the law thus allows for the exemption of the payment of a fee for an individual entrepreneur and a legal person. In the section on the exemption from payment of the costs of the novelty procedure, the Institute for the Exemption of Court Fees, i.e. for an entrepreneur and a legal person, is more specifically regulated. Given that the reasons for the proposed amendments are almost exclusively in the decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has found, directly or indirectly, that certain legislative provisions are not in accordance with the Constitution, we will support the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Vojko Celigoj, DeSUS, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues, colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is the right decision of the proposer to formally establish the establishment of family departments of district courts as specialised departments in the area of jurisdiction on possible disputes between parents and children and legal disputes. All the more visible international instruments relating to the rights of children highlight the principle of the benefit of the child. Members of the DeSUS Group are convinced that the establishment of a specialised section within the District Courts can make a significant contribution to the implementation of this principle, as this ensures more opportunities and active participation of a child who can, in the event of possible disputes, more express his or her views. In addition, we believe that it would be useful for a child and child to have a temporary guardian to represent his or her interests in cases where there is a conflict between parents and children or a decision in which a child and a child cannot yet be a party to the proceedings. However, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the training of appropriate personnel or the acquisition of special expertise for existing staff, which would be more responsive to the needs of the child, is also essential for the effective functioning of these courts. The other amendments contained in the draft law are the result of decisions of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the determination of the payment of a court fee as a general procedural assumption or made it possible to exempt the payment of an individual and a legal person's fee. In the parliamentary group, we have always advocated respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We also believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court on the basis of which the general rule on the payment of a fee as a procedural assumption is laid down only for the applications with which the first stage proceedings are initiated, in accordance with the principle of the right to a remedy provided for in Article 25 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group of Members, we will support the proposal of the law and the amendments of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, and for your understanding. Your Honor! The amendment of the law on judicial proceedings is based on decisions of the Constitutional Court, which has found, directly or indirectly, that certain legal provisions are not in conformity with the Constitution. There are three groups involved. The first group refers to amendments to the law on marriage and family relations, one of which is the implementation of the child's principle of benefit and the transfer of cases from the social work centre to the courts, then the harmonisation of the law on justice and the establishment of a new regime of family departments in district courts. In the second group, it is a matter of paying court fees through procedural assumptions. In the third, however, for provisions specifically governing the exemption of legal persons and entrepreneurs. In our parliamentary group, we expect that the proposed amendments will enable more efficient judicial procedures, and thus faster judicial protection, which we support. However, we are confident that further changes will be needed, but they will have to cut into the very design of the law. In doing so, we believe that it is necessary to examine the area of the possibility of introducing a comprehensive late judgment, a comprehensive appeal hearing, then for the collection of evidence. In doing so, the Court should have greater powers and, in the preparatory phase for the main hearing, the exchange of customer statements should be aimed at clearing up disputed evidence and facts and other solutions. All of this is supposed to shorten legal proceedings, and thus the law will also acquire those elements that would make the justice process more effective. Otherwise, we are in the New Slovenia Group to amend and supplement the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we are pleased that the Ministry of Justice has perished and has prepared a proposal for amendments to the Law on Justice, even on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. In explaining the proposal, the proposer cites the objectives of systematic changes to the sectoral legislation and acknowledges in the same breath that the amendments have not yet been qualitatively examined, that there is a lack of expert analysis and much more. And the court's backlogs are getting bigger. The reform of the judiciary in the project to reduce judicial backlogs has not been successful, so it would be wise if this path does not lead in the right direction, i.e. to reduce judicial backlogs, to consider whether it still makes sense to continue in the direction it was set. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that no, but that a new path needs to be found, in this case with a quality reform of the judiciary, which will halt the negative trends in the increase in judicial backlogs. And admit to being thrown away for three years. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we respect the Constitutional Court's decisions that it is necessary to carry out procedural exercise of delegation of powers in family matters from the Centre for Social Work to the courts, but again we point out that it depends on the Ministry of Justice how this transfer will be carried out. It is necessary to be aware that the amendment of the law will come into force much sooner than judges who will be in charge of resolving family disputes will be able to acquire the relevant sociological knowledge they need if they wish to decide on the problems mentioned. We do not know anything about the preparation of judges for this work and cooperation with experts from social work centres in the draft law. Moreover, the problem is not defined, which makes it possible to think that in practice it will be poorly carried out. In short, we will support the proposal in the Youth Slovenia Party, as we would also like to support the thorough reform of the Slovenian judiciary, which unfortunately has not yet been prepared at the Ministry and is thus transferred to the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Yuri Malovre. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u20	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on fair procedure relates to amendments and additions required by decisions of the Constitutional Court, which also deal directly or indirectly with matters governed by the law on fair procedure. The bill deals with three sets of issues. The decision relating to the Law on Marriage and Family Relations, the Law on Judicial Fees and the Decision directly relating to the Law on Judicial Procedure. The first part deals with the changes required by the amendment of the Law on Marriage and Family Relations and refers to the transfer of competences in determining the contact and survival of children from the Social Work Centre to the District Courts. The transfer of powers and the consequent concentration of powers in one place will enable the establishment of family departments of district courts. The family departments are therefore formed as specialised decision-making departments on all that falls within the jurisdiction of the judiciary in this area. The proposal will bring us closer to the regulation, which, as an extremely positive one, stems from a number of international instruments, such as the European Convention on the Exercise of the Rights of the Child and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which advocates the view that it is the most appropriate legal protection, namely, protection, which is most in favour of the child, judicial protection. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the proposaler that professionally specialised departments will contribute to the implementation of the principle of the greatest benefit of the child. The second set of amendments relates to the Constitutional Court decision repealing Article 8, paragraph 1, of the Law on Court Fees. With the solution proposed, the rule on the payment of a fee as a general procedural assumption is more specific than that laid down by the repealed provision of the Law on Judicial Fees, since it applies only to applications with which the procedure is initiated at the first stage but not to legal remedies. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree with the proposaler, who estimates that prescribing the fee as a procedural assumption is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] could constitute an obstacle to the Constitution of a certain right to a remedy. [[...]] We further agree with the claim that the loss of constitutional rights at the expense of fiscal interest and procedural discipline would undoubtedly constitute a disproportionate measure. The third set of amendments and additions relates to a decision of the Constitutional Court which annulled Article 168, paragraph 6, of the Judicial Procedure Act in accordance with [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] It is not possible to exclude for independent entrepreneurs individuals in disputes relating to their activities for legal persons. [[...]] In view of the fact that there are no legal provisions governing the conditions and procedure for the exemption of payments for those persons following the repeal, the applicant has duly regulated them in the proposal for a law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a law in an appropriate and appropriate manner enforces the amendments and additions relating to the areas governed by the law on fair procedure and necessary by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 19 December following the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We'll resume at 10.45 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to all! We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for the Act on Labour and Social Courts. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. My word, Mag. Ivan Biszak, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a new law on labour and social courts, which will therefore replace the law in force adopted in 1994. This new law is needed because it is necessary to reconcile the actual competences and judicial proceedings for labour and social disputes with the many new laws adopted in the meantime, in particular the Labour Relations Act, as well as the amended social security rules. On the other hand, it is necessary to harmonise the procedure with the changes of the fair procedure which have occurred in the interim period, in particular following this law, the need to ensure faster and more effective judicial protection in labour and social disputes, while the conditions in this area are improving, the courts are in the process of managing the current case, gradually correcting the backlogs of previous years, but the duration of the proceedings only shows that there is a need to further facilitate and encourage faster resolution of disputes at the legal level through the new procedural rules. The law was drafted by a special working group composed of representatives from both governments and the labour and social courts of all levels, and of course other legal professionals. A number of expert opinions and some analyses have been made that have provided the basis for this text. Allow me only to briefly present some key innovations, because in some areas there are no significant changes, this applies in particular to the organisational network of labour and social courts, because we are abolishing only one external department due to its underprivilegedness. With regard to real competence, it should be stressed that the actual competence in individual labour disputes extends to all labour-related compensation disputes, including those related to injuries at work and occupational diseases. As a second change of jurisdiction, I should mention that the Social Court will no longer be competent to rule on disputes arising out of voluntary health and pension insurance, as these are matters which have the predominant characteristics of the contractual bonding relationship. With regard to the rules of procedure, let me mention some news. On the one hand, on the other hand, an investigative principle is being applied to the collection of evidence by carrying out evidence on the basis of an official duty. We are introducing the principle of concentration of the main treatment, which is why the requirement for thorough preparation is stressed in order to gather all essential procedural material before it begins and that there is no overlap and thus extension of the procedure. The settlement order is regulated so that the President of the Senate himself can make it, as we find that the settlement claim can be much more effective if the procedure is not too complicated. It is also established that in disputes concerning the existence and termination of the employment relationship, the settlement order must be carried out no later than two months after the receipt of the response to the action. Here, too, we follow the demand for a special acceleration of the procedure in disputes which, of course, have a great impact on the party, particularly on workers. Sanctions are laid down for the absence of parties from the claim, whose aim is to ensure greater procedural discipline of the parties in these disputes and thus to speed up the procedure. An institute of sampling is established to contribute to the speedy resolution of mass disputes. We are instituting a full appeal, allowing the contested judgments to be exceptionally annulled and returned to a new trial. Thus, we also concentrate and speed up the procedure by applying the principle that the case should be concluded on one way through the trial. In the case of exceptional legal remedies, the law introduces a mixed system by law and by a court of approved audit. The audit shall be permitted if the law so provides or if it is permitted by the court. The law was coordinated and supported by the Economic and Social Council, positively, in terms of support, and the Council of Justice also spoke of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Chairman of the Committee, Comrade Lavrinc, will now present the report of the committee responsible for internal policy and then we will hear the views of the groups of Members. First, the chairman of the committee, Comrade Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! As we can see from the report, the Committee also had an opinion on our legislative and legal service when it was considered. He had the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on the political system, the opinion of the Council of Justice and, of course, the amendments prepared on the basis of the opinion of our legislative and legal service. In the debate that followed, the debaters in particular supported such a proposal for a law, and they wanted some clarifications concerning the election of judges of the jurors. After the proposer has answered these questions, amendments have been adopted and, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, an updated proposal for a law proposed by the Committee to the National Assembly has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now hear a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Colleague Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. She is followed by her colleague Levič for the SMS Group. She's a colleague of Zupanov's first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The drafter of the Labour and Social Courts Act seeks to re-organise the competences, organisation and composition of the labour and social courts and the procedures for settling labour and social disputes by means of a new proposal to replace the 1994 regulation. In particular, it wants to shorten procedures that now last more than two years. This is unacceptable, however, because it is a matter of labour and social disputes which can seriously affect the economic and social situation of workers. To this end, the procedural deadlines should be reduced, which could be supported on the one hand, and on the other hand we consider it potentially detrimental to the exercise of the rights and protection of workers who are already by definition a weaker party in the process. We must not neglect that the setting of deadlines is largely left to the judges. In the event of delay, the parties may no longer exercise rights in the proceedings unless they subsequently prove that they were unable to provide evidence in due time, without their guilt, or that they are not delaying the proceedings. We believe that deciding judges on deadlines, instead of a legislator, is a conceptual issue that should first be addressed at the principal level. The main guide of the law should be a greater definition of procedural provisions, which are a tool for the exercise of rights, which is extremely important by workers and in order to reduce the backlog of procedural law for material ones. In our Group of Members, we have some concerns regarding the proposal concerning the following areas. The enforcement of evidence by official duty by the courts shall be determined only in social disputes. It is known, however, that in most cases workers need the assistance of the courts in working disputes. In working disputes, it is not specified exactly what types of decisions a court may issue. An exceptional legal remedy has been deleted - a requirement for the protection of legality. Complaints about the main hearing are being introduced, which is intended to expedite the procedure and is not being implemented in practice. Greater emphasis should be placed on peaceful forms of conflict resolution such as mediation and convergence. Experts in labour and social disputes should not be employed in the undertakings of the defendants. Whether the proposal for a law on labour and social courts actually constitutes an improvement in the concept and thus the functioning of the courts in the field of labour and social disputes will show time. The effort is this way. Therefore, we do not oppose the proposal in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Following him, Comrade Petan took the position of the SDS Group of Members. First of all, Comrade Levich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the adoption of a new law on labour and social courts. We understand this as a step forward in an area that is actually very young and without significant foundations in past history, that is, before 1990. The fact is, until then, that a similar function had been performed by special courts, namely, the special courts of the United Work, which had been the subject of a broader framework of so-called self-government courts, which had to be included to this extent in the system of so-called self-government law, so that in 1994 it was necessary to finally adopt a law that regulated the judicial function in the labour and social field and terminated an unfortunate experiment that had been overtaken by history. Over the past nine years, there has been sufficient time for the new system to develop and to demonstrate the shortcomings of the law, as well as developments in other administrative areas requiring harmonisation and thus a new law in the field under consideration. Clearly, then, a new law is needed. It seems particularly important to us that the proposal puts a great deal of emphasis on efficiency, that is, what today is not exactly the hallmark of the courts and justifiably angers many citizens. Worse still, many citizens are prevented from enjoying their rights. Here I am primarily referring to the principle of concentration of the main treatment, which should allow for effective treatment, but not that the orders are routinely transposed. The sharper sanctioning of the parties in the absence of a claim could also contribute to the above-mentioned objective, i.e. to a faster judicial procedure. With regard to the costs of the procedure, the provisions for the benefit of the worker are maintained. That too seems very important. As always, the implementation of the law will be the one that will have the most impact on legal certainty. In fact, the only thing that makes us skeptic in the Youth Slovenia Party in the bill is the provision on the election of judges of jurors. However, we are confident that a smart solution can be found in the near future, so we do not oppose and therefore support these questionable provisions in the bill itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you, Comrade Levich. Mr Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Potrč. First, Comrade Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So the area covered by this law is particularly important for each employee. And labour legislation, and of course this area of labour and social courts, should be such that the system is up to date. Of course it has to be everywhere. But if anywhere, then there is a demand for additional update, because if the case is brought up, then a firm with which you may not be the most in a good relationship to solve it in a court of law can go bankrupt, and the matter ends and, of course, is ultimately irrelevant. So, if you're going anywhere, the system needs to be up-to-date. But unfortunately, that's not the case. These amendments, which are defined in this Act, are intended to be necessary and necessary in order to amend labour law and social security rules, to amend procedural rules and to introduce or amend procedural institutes due to shorter judicial procedures and to remedy certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice. Given that we have working courts of the 1st degree in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper with external departments, except in Celje, we have a social court only in Ljubljana. Following the proposed amendment, the external unit in Postojna is to be abolished by explaining 'because of the reduced belongs to this unit in the area covered by this unit'. In explaining the proposed law, however, it is particularly interesting that the fact or information we have received that we have participated in the drafting of the law, in addition to the representatives of the Ministry, governments, and representatives of the courts, is said to be a professional here, including German experts. Questions are raised as to how much of these German experts are involved in the content of this law. Whether a share can only be symbolic, as was now the practice, simply because it would seem more credible, or in fact the impact is more important, even substantive. This doubt arises to us because of an extremely violent reaction in the Slovenian judiciary, according to the published positions of the German pre-accession consultant, Mr Doukoff, and, of course, denying the content of his views by the judiciary. That is why, of course, we have doubts that all the positions of German experts have been taken into account in this law. But if so, of course we are happy. The fact is that the opinion of foreigners is welcome because, at some point in time, there has been even an opinion that peaceful souls could be abolished by the Ministry of Justice and, of course, by the Minister of Justice, because in any case, it is not up to us to decide, because the judiciary is untouchable and anything else would be interference with an independent judiciary. I would say that this is not a criticism of the proposal that is ahead of us, but of the work that has led to such a situation that we must deal with it today. We have never actually embarked on real reforms in the judiciary. We have made changes, so at least now the situation shows, due to changes. The changes, of course, are also unconstitutional, which, of course, was the reason for the new changes and thus the vicious circle has been extended, and today we are in a situation like this, the reform that is supposed to be reform has done harm. That is what everyone is now finding out, and it is not the least that foreigners have had to tell us. I would also like to point out that much attention has also been given in the consideration of this law to the fact that next year it will be necessary to call an election for the majority of jurors, which must be done by the State Assembly and later to make the appointment. With over a thousand of these jurors involved, the idea was to change the law that we are considering, but that would not be possible, because the effect would not be until after 2005, and judges would have to be elected in the following year. Solutions to possible changes should therefore be sought in a second direction, with the question being raised as to whether a major electoral year requires changing, adapting the system and whatever it is. I'll get right on it! I think that this does not exactly indicate the seriousness of the legislation and the solution will have to be sought elsewhere. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not object to accepting the content that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you, Comrade Petan. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law. We are aware that this is one of the most important issues concerning workers, workers, social and similar rights of employees and others who enjoy them on the basis of work. It is right to say that in this area, at least after our assessment, there has certainly been a reduction in rights recently, not in a formal sense, but in a factual sense, and that this is why it is so much more necessary for the situation to be resolved as effectively and as fairly as possible for both partners when the dispute arises in court. For this reason, the reduction of rights has occurred because there is an increasing number of new employment for a certain period of time and thus the issue of termination of the employment contract is being put into a different perspective, because there are no isolated cases where it is employed for a short period of time with the promise to apply to the institution and with the promise to apply for pension insurance, and this does not happen after 14 days or after a month, because it is a matter of people who, I would say, for the first time, are also looking for employment, this is happening from month to month and there is a very large uncertainty in this area. Finally, it seems important for us to speak specifically about this law, because it is in some ways only a specific matter of regulating legal relations. As a rule, it is more important here than in other civil matters indeed, even in other cases, I will not say that they are irrelevant, any dispute is extremely important for an individual, only as a rule, it is a matter of existential issues. The other characteristic, as a rule, of the contested party, is not in an equal position. The worker, the employee, the right-seeker, is usually in a worse position already because his opponent is better organised and because his opponent generally has no direct effect on the outcome of the dispute than the other party, the worker. For this reason, it seems to us to be extremely important to deal with these issues, as regards the case before the labour and social courts, we are pleased that the number of delays per year has improved or that there are fewer and fewer cases, but it is only right to say that more than 50% of these disputes are still pending in the labour and social courts. But this is for someone who has lost his job or who cannot exercise his employment and social rights, I would say, a time that cannot be resolved in another way and those hands are still far from acceptable and, if the law contributes to this part of it, then we will be satisfied. The support we give to the law is based primarily on the fact that it is expressed by the positive opinion that I say all the affected. On the one hand, the social partners on the one hand, which we think is extremely important, as there have been many questions about how labour and social disputes should be resolved, especially what the issue of procedural costs should be. In particular, how to resolve collective disputes that help to facilitate the resolution of similar disputes within a collective. And it seems important to us that the relevant professional, scientific and law enforcement institutions have also given a positive opinion. It's a court of law and a council of justice. Under these assumptions, we count and expect the proposed law to properly address the issue of resolution of labour and social disputes, and we support it with this desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. Mr Malovra will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He's been followed by a colleague of mine. Please, Comrade Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we took a look at a proposal for a law that will fully replace the applicable law on labour and social courts. We took note of the proposaler's explanation and the reasons for the adoption of the new law. We are of the opinion that the applicant has made clear the relevant arguments that require the adoption of the law. The fact is that since 1994, since the adoption of the law in force, many substantive rules in the field of labour law and social security have changed. The law must therefore be aligned with the new labour law, with the law on public servants and with the laws governing social security. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we consider that an important argument for the adoption of legislation is also the fact that fundamental changes in material law, substantive labour and social law must be followed by changes and adjustments to labour and social procedural law. Only by appropriate procedural provisions is it possible to ensure adequate and effective judicial protection of rights. A further argument in favour of the adoption of this law is the new law on judicial proceedings. The applicable Act on Labour and Social Courts, which provides for the subsidiary application of the rules of judicial procedure, was adopted at the time when the Law on the Judicial Procedure of 1976 was in force. Consequently, the Labour and Social Courts Act contains provisions which are substantively in line with the legal procedure at the time. The new Judicial Procedure Act, which was adopted in 1999 and amended in 2002, requires certain adjustments and changes to labour and social procedural law. Judicial backlogs and how to eliminate them is the topic that we have been talking about lately. The speed of the procedure, particularly in labour and social disputes, is a prerequisite for quality legal protection. Legal protection within a reasonable period, however, is a principal element of judicial protection. The right to judicial protection is defined in Article 23 of the Constitution, which deals with decision-making without undue delay. Respect for constitutional categories is one of the criteria of the rule of law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the introduction of institutions in the new Law on Social and Labour Courts, which will contribute to a faster, more efficient procedure and indirectly to more consistent and effective respect for the rights defined by the Constitution. We estimate that in his explanation, the applicant has given a number of reasons why the adoption of the present law is necessary and meaningful. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you, Comrade Malvore. He's a friend of mine. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, followed by colleague Krebs. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u37	Your Honors are here! Much ahead of me, you have rightly found that this is one of the more important laws, especially because of disagreements or irregularities in working relationships. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that it is another law that attempts to regulate or reduce judicial backlogs in an integrated manner and therefore commends both the Minister and in this field of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that it has finally begun to actively fight backlogs in the individual segments of the judicial system within our country. It is commendable and we sincerely hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the executive branch of government in all areas, will try as actively as the Ministry of Justice in the last moments you are working in your field. That this is a good reason for the adoption of the law is already stated by Rapporteur 104/81, which states that in its content, the law, if adopted, will shorten proceedings and, of course, make the judiciary more effective. We sincerely hope that this will happen, and we sincerely hope that it will not come at the expense of quality. That sufficient reason for the adoption of the law is its content, which could otherwise be better, but already in the existing proposal is so good that it is worth accepting, dictates, statistics on the subject of labour disputes indicating that more than half of the cases last a year or more in the existing system, i.e. in the existing legal framework, and at the current pace of the work of the judges. Of course, what this means for a particularly important issue for one party to the labour dispute, we can probably all assess. So it's a good reason to get married. On the other hand, as far as social courts are concerned, it must be said that, in the existing legal basis, social courts and labour activities are not capable of reducing pending cases. Well, it also makes sense for us to approach the adoption of the law with this title. In individual statistics, however, the duration of procedures last year is very and very interesting. Only in the case where we see that in the area of individual labour disputes, the resolution system has grown. In the first three months, the courts resolved very few of these disputes in percentages, saying that this was only 14.6%, and that more than half of the disputes, i.e. 52.2%, continued over one year. So that's this terrible information that we all have to figure out together and do everything we can to make it change. Counter-statistics, however, shows in the area of collective labour disputes, where we see almost half of the labour disputes being resolved in the first three months and "only" - in quotations - 28.5% is drawn over one year. As far as social disputes are concerned, of course, we also find that the existing data, namely that only 17% of all disputes have been resolved over a period of three months and that over one year, that is, a year or more, are drawn over 51%. According to our assessment, statistics are the reason and the content, but statistics also indicate the reason why the law should also be adopted in such a form. The applicant himself submits that the main solutions were concentrated on the chapter of the concentration of the main treatment in the field of settlement deadlines, the evidence by official duty, then the procedural discipline of the parties in disputes, the sample procedures and appeals to the hearing. Allow me, however, to stop at those major solutions for which we estimate in the National Party that it would be possible to resolve them even more qualitatively or make them an instrument that would allow for even less judicial backlogs and, of course, quality decision-making. As far as the chapter of the appeal is concerned, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, pursuing the objective of limiting the possibility of bringing the matter back to trial. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the National Party, we should take a more radical position and move into a ban on returning to a new trial. In short, even after the so-called "twinning project" is a country - for example, what Slovenia or countries with inefficient judiciary is able to limit or prohibit. According to our assessment, it should be prohibited to return to a new trial. However, as far as the content of the law is concerned, we are missing, above all, a stronger explanation and a definition of two new concepts, namely the first so-called legal proceedings, precisely because of speed and - in a second, to complete - the resolution of extradition procedures [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Judgments. [[...]] We're gonna break the law at the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, buddy. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the position of the Member Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and will conclude a presentation of the positions of colleague Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. The protection of workers' rights in disputes with employers is a particularly sensitive area, which also requires special procedural arrangements. The proposal for a law on labour and social courts requires the competence of the organisation and composition of these courts and the rules of procedure whereby these courts decide in labour and social disputes - special care must be taken. The legislative proposal provides for, inter alia, faster and more effective judicial protection of labour and social disputes. Since the right to judicial protection within a reasonable period of time in Slovenia has the nature of fundamental human rights and represents a constitutional category, all the efforts that follow this objective are worth all the attention and support. The legislative proposal aligns the provisions on the competence of labour and social courts and the rules of judicial procedure for labour and social disputes with the new Labour Relations Act, the Law on Public Servants and the amended social security rules. The rules of procedure in these disputes shall also be aligned with changes in the fair procedure. The aim of all these changes was the same: to approach the objectives of the trial within a reasonable time frame. On the proposal for a law, competence in individual labour disputes extends to all indemnity disputes from the labour relationship, including injuries at work and occupational diseases. The subject of collective disputes will also be the assessment of the general acts of the employer by law and collective agreements. The Social Court will therefore no longer be competent to decide on voluntary health and pension insurance matters, but will be the court of general jurisdiction for them. The Labour and Social Courts Act, which regulates proceedings, contains 44 articles derogating from the rules of the Judicial Procedure Act. The amendments to these procedural institutes seek to achieve shorter and more effective judicial procedures. In individual labour and social disputes, it is important to highlight in particular the following changes aimed at speeding up the procedure. This is an eight-day deadline for compliance and appeal, shorter deadlines for issuing provisional orders and the possibility of a decision without a main hearing. No less important are the changes intended to protect the worker or insured person than the weaker parties in the proceedings. For instance. Less demanding conditions for representation; duty of the courts to assist in the repair of incomplete or incomprehensible applications; derogation from the obligation to make an application and to be bound by the court; special arrangements for the costs of proceedings and the issuance of provisional orders, including under official duty. The main solutions in the procedural work therefore provide for the concentration of the main treatment, which highlights the thorough preparation for the main treatment. There is also a more well-established investigative principle in the field of proof, carried out by the court on an official basis. A system of audit is in place to ensure uniform case law and a quicker resolution of disputed legal issues. In particular, we support the Institute of Settlements. The organisational network of labour and social courts at first and second stages remains almost unchanged, allowing access to judicial protection to continue. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the quality of legal protection depends mainly on the speed of the process. Since this is particularly true in terms of the nature of work and social disputes, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u40	Thank you very much, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Comrade Cheligoy. My colleague Vojko Celigoj will conclude a presentation of the positions with the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. As we can read in the introduction of the bill, there are three reasons for issuing the new law. The first reason is to change the substantive rules in the field of labour law and social security law. The content of the current law is based on old labour law, notably the Labour Relations Act and the Labour Rights Act. We have adopted a series of substantive rules in the National Assembly some time ago, to which the current legislation is no longer sufficient or should be adjusted accordingly because of the transition of the employment relationship to the contractual labour obligation. As regards the amendments to the provisions governing the procedure, the proposal for a law to reduce judicial backlogs contains certain provisions which, although the proceedings on labour disputes are largely based on a judicial procedure, lays down provisions containing the rules of procedure in a dispute arising out of labour law relations. The institutes that are being introduced or modified are mainly in the direction of greater efficiency and lead to rationalisation. Despite the fact that the trend towards the shortest possible judicial proceedings and the shortening of the time taken to deal with an individual dispute has to be seen throughout the legal area, it is necessary to examine what changes bring about and whether the objectives are not merely a presumptive basis for the speedy provision of judicial protection of rights. Similar solutions resulting from the proposal for this Act are also considered in the case of a dispute in other legal areas. For example, in the case of amendments to the law on fair procedure, where we can first see that changes in this direction should wait until comprehensive theoretical and professional backgrounds are obtained. The concentration of the main hearing, the settlement claim, the acquisition of evidence by official duty or the extension of the test principle, the exclusion of the Institute of Peacemaking and the sanction of the stay from the application, the late action, the sample procedure and only the exceptional annulment of the contested judgments and the return of those to a new trial are all institutions intended to ensure efficiency and rationalisation. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the relationship between the worker and the employer is of such a legal nature that it is in the interest of both of them to resolve the dispute as soon as possible. Otherwise, the negative effects on the employee may also be existential and on the employer’s side may lead to high costs. Nevertheless, we must not forget that the employer in the dispute, especially today, is a stronger party who can easily convince the employee in one way or another, for example, to settle, which is not necessarily a better option for the worker in the dispute. Therefore, despite the envisaged efficiency, the employee also needs to protect his or her interests or protect his or her position, even as the arbitral decision is clearly final and is not allowed to be challenged before a court. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that any change, and even the introduction of new procedures in the judiciary, takes time to adjust to it. We believe that the provisions of the bill are good and that they will bring positive changes, so we will also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I am concluding the debate and the second reading of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 19.12.2003, after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. In two minutes we will move on to the 4th item of the agenda - this is to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. So at 11:30, we'll proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u43	We are moving on to a second reading of the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Minister of Justice, Master Ivan Biszak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u44	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the restriction of corruption is already known to you from the general debate that has been held and then the Committee on Internal Policy, as the parent committee, has also made a public presentation of the opinions, so that the whole debate has already been quite long. Many amendments have been tabled, making a great deal of effort in this house to seek such agreement that this law can obtain the widest possible support in the National Assembly. I appreciate that this type of consensus has also occurred in many areas. Thus, on the basis of the examination by the Internal Policy Committee before us, the text of the law, which has, of course, also been drawn up with the support of the proposer, is complemented by the provisions which the proposer agrees with. Allow me to point out, in particular, some of these key amendments proposed in this updated text in this introduction. On the one hand, it is the title of the law, which should therefore be the law on the prevention of corruption, and accordingly the name of the Commission as an independent body for the performance of tasks under this law is also being amended accordingly. Here it is possible to agree, of course, that this is a very clear or most clear title, which should be borne by both the law and the commission. While the law provides for measures to prevent and suppress corruption at the legislative, institutional and practical levels, the key objective of all these activities is, of course, also, as we have stressed so far, to establish an environment that will also prevent those conditions and extensions that enable corruption. It is important that the law also includes a definition of corruption, which is accurate and comprehensive enough to enable it to support the performance of tasks under this law. Additional persons subject to the provisions of Chapters 3 and 4 of the Act are also added, i.e. control of property status and operating restrictions. It is also for managers in various institutions, such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and health insurance, agencies and, on the other hand, for members of individual and collective management bodies in public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, agencies and companies owned by a majority of the state or local communities referred to as such. And another provision is the change that has emerged in this: instead of the Council of the Commission, which was previously proposed as the body to oversee the work of this independent commission to prevent corruption, the special commission of the National Assembly is now given such powers under the law on anti-corruption, where, of course, its composition of the six members and the structure of those members, where the President and the three members of the opposition are appointed. So much for some of the innovations that have occurred [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to this bill, and in view of the consensus so far, I expect that this law will also be supported in this consideration. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I also welcome among us the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rada Bohinca and the Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption of Boštjan Penk. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister and Mr Penko, colleagues and colleagues. It is clear from the scope of the report that work has been done quite hard, both at the committee meeting itself and, of course, before that. It must be said that we have done things a little differently than we normally do. At the hearing we had before us the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Judicial Council, the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, of course the opinion of our commission on the law - I must always read this - the Commissions on the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of the public function with a profitable activity as an interested working body. So, in preparation for this meeting, it turns out that there are actually some conceptual issues and, of course, this was discussed between the position and the opposition and, of course, the experts in this area have been debated by us, that we have only led the meeting then that it is actually the first reading. It should be said that, on the basis of the SDS proposal, the Committee has adopted a decision to make a public presentation of the opinions first. However, in this public presentation of opinions on what specific quality benefits, to put it this way, we have not come, and, of course, the remainder remains in preparation for the Committee's own meeting of quite an unfinished work. Even after more or less things have been conceptually put in place, such that, as presented in the introduction by the proposer, the proposals of individual amendments are somehow summarised. The amendments proposed SDS, LDS and others and, of course, a commission under the incompatible law - and so on, I do not torture myself and others. In this way we have come up with three sets of individual issues. In the debate itself, this discussion, the previous one, proved useful, since the committee then went through the whole law on the basis of such harmonised amendments. As you can see, he's done a lot of repairs. In doing so, I must apologize on behalf of the Committee's professional service for the minor error that has been corrected by the correction of the report. However, this can also happen when articles and amendments are so extensive. In the debate itself, it was on the part of the bank that I think it is particularly important to say that it is warned that such an intervention or such a dictatorship as it was prepared, even after we formed these amendments, is not good. They were still of the opinion that Article 40 of the Law in some way provides for sanctions that are excessive or that somehow do not belong to the establishment of our regulations. Well, most of the board decided that this law should apply to them, as it is before you. In the debate, the individual issues were further clarified in order to say so, and as has been found, we have decided to change both the name and the authorities that are supposed to be involved here. It has also been pointed out on several occasions that none of us who have participated in the debate is thinking about coming, by means of this law or its aims and application, so on our own, to say, as a society, to a total loss. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - I will end very briefly and quickly - until corruption is crushed, but it is certainly one of the stones in the mosaic of the entire social structure that should help that end. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 29th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 15.12.2003. Allow me only to inform you that, unfortunately, the competent ministry and the government have come to a misunderstanding in the announcement of time, so that the government representatives within the scope of this agenda item do not have time to define up to the amendments. Thus, as far as the most urgent clarification is concerned, to the extent that individuals would like to have a government definition by a certain amendment, I will allow the representatives to do so to the minimum extent possible under the individual amendment. There is no time for the government, but many times you ask the government what the amendment thinks, so allow the representatives of the government to say a word to the ladies. I am therefore opening the debate on the amendment to Article 2a. The proposal is the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable. So let me just say quickly what this 2.a article is talking about. Indeed, here it is clarified which are those who are bound to report under this law. In our opinion, however, the Slovenian Democratic Party considers that there is one whole category, namely those in the supervisory bodies, namely public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, public agencies, companies, of course, which are in the majority ownership of the country or, of course, at the local level, so that there is no misunderstanding. The fact is, if we want to be effective and if we are talking about preventing corruption, then it is only right that we are effective, because otherwise it all sounds empty. And we just want to make it feel like there's corruption everywhere, and it's with us, and it hurts God, but it's not like that. The fact is, someone creates corruption, someone has to condition it, and someone has to watch it happen peacefully, or if he doesn't look at it calmly, and he doesn't do anything. It is said that only under such conditions can corruption be successful, because otherwise it cannot yet be. And if we want to be balanced in this, if we want to have a balanced approach to encompass all the people who can, I don't know, enable or, on the other hand, just calmly see that something is going on, then it is imperative to include the supervisory authorities, it is said, the members of the supervisory authorities of these companies, which I have counted, even as debtors under this law. The fact is that two approaches have somehow emerged in this law. One is our approach, for which we hide nothing, that it is strict, and the other, which is as flexible as possible. This is this proposal, I don't know, government or ruling majority, and we think, in our party, that if we want to prevent corruption as a public evil or evil in a country, then we need to be strict and have strict measures and, of course, even more than measures at the implementation level, and of course, without legislation, no body at the implementing level can do anything if the legislation makes it impossible or even prevents it. That is why we have proposed to add the words'supervisory authorities' to this text, which is presented here, in this article 2.a. In fact, why? The fact is that there will indeed be a large number of people and bodies covered by this law, which will include this law, but, on the other hand, as I said, if we want to be effective, we must take account of everything and the supervisory authorities must be responsible for it. But I'm going to give you an example so that we can understand why we decided to do that. See, in companies, agencies, funds, companies, where the majority is the owner of the country and where the state also appoints supervisory authorities, including in the local community, of course everyone would want to be, and God forbid, when we proposed in the opposition that there should also be an opposition member in the supervisory authorities. That was blasphemous. Probably not because it would be so hard or because of something else, but probably because of some positive attitude, because if it was bad, then we would probably be pushed into this matter by very calm souls. But look, in the case of buying a SIB bank, it's on a local level, of course it was hiding in a certain circle, and now that the matter has somehow come to light, the representatives of the supervisory authority have said, it's none of our business, we've been misled by management or by any other. In fact, they had a very important role to play. If those people were also under any other supervision, which, for example, this law deals with, or if there were representatives of the opposition in that supervisory body, because this is also one of the conditions for preventing corruption - but this is special, it does not belong to everyone, but because I want to present them comprehensively, I also mentioned them - then probably what would not have happened, because someone would have previously warned about the application that could also happen in such cases, and all the strange things that are happening and are, say, happening in the case of SIB banks. And that's why we've included people who are in the supervisory authorities. On the other hand, we also need to be concrete that, let's say, I don't know, the tenants of the housing fund are relatively operating with terrible money, they are informed about it, and they can, I say, benefit from it. On the other hand, it may not be possible for supervisors of a cultural fund at the municipal level to do much damage, but if we are to prevent corruption, we must be strict with everyone. This is the only way to succeed, we must not look at one person through the fingers and not include them in this system of debtors under this law. And that is why we believe that this approach is completely justified and not only justified, but is also necessary, in addition to all of the ones that we have mentioned, to give the supervisory authorities in all of these societies, the funds that are owned by the State or by local communities, because this is the only way we will achieve what we want; this is to prevent corruption, and I think that is what we all want. So it is probably not necessary to discuss whether someone wants or does not want to. At least that's how the public interest turned out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Allow me to introduce you, the more you have been notified of the word, in kind: Mr Drobnič, Mr Vukov, Mr Brejc, Mr Pece and Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u50	I myself support this amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which somehow broadens the scope of this law, which is already modest. He's modest by his instincts, by putting in, by what instruments and what tools he took as an opportunity to prosecute corruption. Indeed, we still claim in Novi Slovenija that it was not enough to set standards, criteria and, in particular, to provide regular services and professional workers for the prosecution of such crime. At the end of the day, of course, there must also be will and, in particular, in the enforcement authorities to do so. In short, we strongly support this expansion, so that the concept and scope of the law also extends to management and supervisory authorities. Regrettably, the first paragraph of this Article, to which this amendment applies, does not include other institutions of the Republic which may be another target of corruption. I may not mention, I do not know, the employment agency, which is, of course, placed elsewhere in other countries in this framework. In short, we support and, of course, a number of other institutions remain not only public, public services, public economic institutions, but, of course, what is the main objective of this law, civil service officials. For example, the Slovenian Development Society, for which the government has consistently denied that there is no direct supervision by the Ministry in this area, nor public funding. In order to really avoid this control, this has proved to be true in the financing of Elan, but the following institutions, subordinated to themselves, have established themselves a quasi-market, in order not to be targeted, in order not to be subject to supervision. And, of course, that is why they will not be subject to control or persecution through this law or to setting standards for how they are persecuted. In short, in such institutions that carry out commissioning work, and vast state resources transform someone else, they should also be included. It's in a sense also for public servants. If a concession is granted, a quasi concession for the conduct of public affairs and for the transfer of public money which does not go under the principles of tendering should be all the more careful. Look what happened then. Some experts were involved, who are in direct contact with members of the ministerial team or state secretaries. They were silently involved in this as some of the advisers coming from the institutions. But since they are not subject to these criteria of public service, public service and public funds, they cannot be reached. And then we have these actions. And how to chase them. Well, there must be an appropriate standard for the law. So we support these amendments. We will probably add something else to the third reading, which we think makes sense, from these very starting points in order to expand the scope of this law, and then regular services to detect and prosecute corruption need to be strengthened. This is the task of the ministry and the government, and ultimately the government must have the will to prosecute it. Only in this way will we be able to get from, I don't know which place on this corrupt scale to a slightly better position in the case of the other countries. We must be aware that corruption is spreading, including knowledge, skills are spreading. And the more these forms of state, decentralised, quasi-State, the more there will be opportunities for corruption. And in this respect, the law must also be built up to all these potential agencies and agencies that are involved. I'll tell you what. In the future, it is likely that even less subject to corruption challenges will be faced by ministers themselves and top government officials, perhaps with some specific ones. I will see this desire and the path to corruption, and the possibilities will increase, not the other levels. And in that sense, we should think. In short, we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. First, of course, I think it is necessary to say that this amendment is not entirely a surprise, as it was somehow announced at the very meeting of the Infrastructure Committee when I personally proposed this content to the members of the Committee. It is true, however, that this amendment was then withdrawn from the debate itself for a simple reason because it was necessary to establish a better dictatorship and not least to give another thought to the rationality, the sense of it. The result is an amendment which will be dealt with under Article 29. Finally, this content of the amendment also needed to be aligned with the parties to the coalition. Of course, it should also be stressed that it is in everyone's interest to be effective in preventing corruption. There's no doubt about that. Of course, it is a question of whether we are consistent and how consistent we are and whether the amendment proposal makes sense in this respect. I assess it myself, and we will not support this amendment in the LDS Group of Members. And I'll give you an argument as to why. The first is because, according to our assessment, not all entities are covered. Our amendment to Article 29 also speaks of management bodies or management bodies. Because, on the proposal of the LDS and the coalition, the law has already been extended to ban business for management authorities, but we are talking about authorities and supervisory authorities. And this is where we agree. The ban on business is what I think is fundamental when we talk about supervisory authorities. Why? The fundamental point or the basic element of defining corruption is that someone has gained the benefit of a corrupt act if I shorten it. How can it be used? In particular, if he is a member of a supervisory authority, he shall be allowed [[?]] with the same legal person in which he is a member of the supervisory authority also to operate. As a result, I think it is entirely illogical for supervisory authorities in more than 200 public companies in Slovenia to establish an obligation to report on the Commission's assets. More than once, it has been heard from the opposition's mouth that they are taking and do not support a solution that would further mean administration and so on. I think that this proposal is precisely that in this direction, this claim by this amendment is contradictory. If we say that there are around 200 public companies in the Republic of Slovenia at local and national level - we are talking only about public companies and the statistics for public institutions are 1447 institutions such as 660 etc. - and if we are talking about the assumption that there are at least 5 people, 5 people in each public company control committee, 5 members being 1,000. I'm saying once again whether it makes sense to control their assets. Indeed, there is a question of whether we have not gone a little too far for all public institutions, for all public companies members of the supervisory boards to check the property situation, that is a matter of assessment. We, the LDS Group, together with the parties to the coalition, propose what has already been said on the Committee, and this is now written in the amendment to Article 29. The ban on business is what we believe will follow the basic purpose of the anti-corruption law. Only when I am a member of a supervisory authority or a member of a management body is it much done to prevent any corrupt non-hygienic acts between these persons themselves. Since the fact is that supervisory authorities, members of the visual authority can influence, pressure, blackmail if it is necessary for the director or members of the administration to then operate with the company through their companies or companies owned by the immediate family members. I think that we are not fundamentally diversified here, and the coalition has tried to get close to the opposition's views on this issue at this point. Last but not least, the Committee - and this must be stressed - has also adopted one, complemented by this law, in order to establish this breach of the operating ban, that the result is a legal consequence, as a sanction, that the legal transaction is null and void.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. If you don't mind if I come by first. Our formulation may be a little more difficult and it seems to us that it may be too wide and these supervisory authorities may be less important when it comes to danger, say, corruption. However, the structure of supervisory authorities in Slovenia needs to be examined. This is no longer a case of individual cases, but it is simply a network of people who appear in several supervisory bodies, who are also themselves, for example, in important positions of the Presidents of administration, for example, or have any other important public functions. Thus, we cannot say, of course, that this is the case with these authorities - so that they will not be taken into account. The second thing I want to say is that in Article 2a, in this article, which we are currently discussing, the managing authorities are specifically mentioned. It says, "members of individual or collective management bodies in public institutions" etc. And, of course, we think it's good to add more surveillance, because it actually takes all this image and list of people who could possibly be under pressure from some kind of activity, such as corruption, so that they can take some things into account. Some concrete examples from Slovenian recent practice also prevent this. Otherwise, I think it would be good to support what we are proposing, to look at the resolution of the European Parliament's common policy against corruption. On 4 December, I participated in this matter in the European Parliament, and I can say that this resolution is much better than it was before; it is still just a document of course, it is still just paper. The question of what will happen to it in the future, but it has some preventive measures and some measures to prevent corruption. And if I may, not to bore you with this, but precisely in this regard, I think it is important to draw attention to one part of this resolution, which speaks of policy being much more transparent, including the public lists of all civil servants on European, national, regional, local, etc. - that I am not now listing all these levels and their financial position. What do I mean? That's it! This measure should also include representatives of the judiciary and, as they say, 'quasi' of government organisations, that is to say non-governmental and parastatal institutions. It is said that, even in this European space, they think that this control is necessary, this list of persons - perhaps that is ugly - but that there is a need to extend this in order, however, to fully include individuals in all their roles, who play them, so that they can only then really assess whether there are any links between their functions and their exposure to corruption. Therefore, I say it would not hurt if we could look at this, well, a resolution of the European Parliament, which also points out this aspect. However, I do not think that the law, as it is prepared, including the amendments, will still be good. I think the marriage is still bad. With the amendments adopted, it might be a little less bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u56	Your Honors are here! In the parliamentary group, we presented the negative view or sadness of the bill in both the previous presentation and the various working bodies. Unfortunately, we estimate that this is, of course, just another one of those laws within the framework, unfortunately a very large Slovenian legislation that does not follow and does not meet the objectives that have been or are stated at the time of the adoption of the law. According to our assessment, this is one of those laws, especially in the absence of the amendment to Article 2a, which will not be accompanied by an address and will have no effect on the implementation in practice. Therefore, as far as the amendment proposed under Article 2a is concerned, we will attach the Slovenian National Party to it. However, we would be pleased if all such amendments, which are aimed at extending the review and extending the responsibility in the field of at least public finances or in society, were fully accepted. The speaker in front of me correctly concluded that the law will not pursue the goal, even with the amendments adopted, but will be a little closer to the goal itself. This is also the basic motto of the vote on this amendment and the next amendment. This is how I express my support for the Slovenian National Party until the amendment of Article 2.a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, he is not here at this moment, Mr Wolf, then Mr Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. I apologize, but some explanation is necessary, not as a replica. I agree with Dr. Brejc in many ways, but I have not talked about the fact that the supervisory boards are some authorities that need not be looked after if I use this term. On the contrary! I have advocated from the outset that the supervisory authorities are one of the key elements in this connection. And I also agree that different networks have been established in Slovenia and in the past when one person is a member of different supervisory committees. Of course, it is important to stress here that I was mentioned in the informal interviews by Petrol. This does not apply to Petrol, this does not apply to Krka, this does not apply to any other private-owned company, but there is a matter of owners. And I would go back to where we are, in this marriage, to public companies. Of course, certain persons appear here often as members of the Supervisory Boards also because government representatives are in certain public companies. I allow this option and, of course, there are known cases. But the point is, we're only parting in one thing. And please - this is the only difference: is it necessary for all members of the Supervisory Boards in public companies, public funds, public institutions and once again I stress that these are large numbers, or is it necessary and logical to establish control over their assets? It's a little cartoon. Is it necessary that in the public company of the municipality x with 3,000 or 5,000 inhabitants, or that the members of the supervisory board of this public undertaking from the country should supervise the property? I don't think so. However, they need to be banned from doing business with this public company, since they could have someone - a life case - a public undertaking must provide a winter service. [[...]] I'm a member of this supervisory authority, and my wife has s.p. and I make a contract with this public winter service company. This is now prohibited under this law, as proposed, by Article 29. And why did some have great interest in being members of oversight committees everywhere? I think it's because the operating ban didn't apply. Because it was legally impossible to prohibit it. But it's been unhygienic ever since, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelmina, please. Mr Jerovšek, when I called you to your word, unfortunately you were not here, but I will write you down by Mr Bernick. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, all of you. My assessment is that this amendment, or extension, is essential in the essence of control over individual officials, if we have already identified so widely who should be monitored, then certainly this additional supervision cannot harm. It is more, of course, questionable now why these strong efforts of the government or the authorities, that we know that rich Slovenian corruption, are under control. This is a more important question. And this certainly has some of its reasons behind it, because we have repeatedly said that we are assessing in the opposition that this country has completely all the instruments with which corruption should not actually come at all. And I'm not going to list them. Parliament is also one of those, and you are also Members of the authorities who should have prevented this a long time ago, and you are not. Most of all, this poor country is going to be costing us extra. In addition to all these powerful instruments that we have at our disposal, Mr. Minister, with your judicial system and all that you have over, and the Minister of Justice and Minister of the Interior- God have mercy on what you have! And how much money you have! We will now spend additional resources to control corruption. I'm saying you all failed this exam a long time ago. For 12 years we have supported or supported corruption - those in power. Let me just count two, three things. Transport permits - taboo. No one was supposed to talk about it, but today we see what pigs were doing there. Payable non-discipline. This has contributed, this has not yet been settled today, and the question of when it will be. You know that. How much payment indiscipline has contributed to corruption if you knew! What do you care? You care a little bit about that, like last year's snow. Then the inefficiency of the courts. Not to speak. Public procurement. The sale of state property. Mr Jerovšek has spoken about this many times. As for, directly for individuals, a certain reselling of state property is being prepared. Why? For corruption. What else is it for? Then let's say media censorship. Why media censorship? Why it shouldn't have been written in 12 years, decisively, as it had to be. Why? It's media censorship. It's pure corruption. But there's obviously something else in the background. In the background, corruption in Slovenia is likely to have escaped from the planned frameworks. That's probably the main reason. She also escaped from planned surveillance. For if you control corruption with political power, as you have obviously done so far, this is extremely useful for the politics of power. You've got everything in check, and you can manipulate them. Today apparently controls are failing, so I think these new authorities, this strong effort to somehow get corruption back under control so that the government can manipulate corruption again, as it is now, and that it can be politically controlled. Apparently, corruption is reserved only for the elite. I say that for the opposition, for its members, this law is not necessary because we have nothing in fact. Ours must be supervised in nothing. I am simply proposing or absolutely supporting that, if we have already expanded, we are preparing a broad law to restrict and control corruption for the individual special elites and for the authorities, then it should also be extended to the supervisory authorities, the public institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Although this marriage is very welcome, it came too late. In addition, the law is somehow and also some amendments to more or less one kind of "placebo", which the government uses to slightly disturb our public opinion and the public. If this marriage had come, let's say, 10 years ago, we wouldn't have had as much corruption as we have today. All I would say is that the government should imagine and also all citizens imagine what happened in those 10 years when we finally began to see that we have a lot of corruption between us. But no one's seen her in 10 years. Now it's kind of like in the American proverb, when they say "the horse has already escaped from the barn and now it's going to be very difficult to catch." And now we have this situation. Citizens should also think a little bit about this, because we should look at the career path of people who are in high places and we could figure out how many people have gone through the economy, the financial institutions and so on and look at where they live, how they live and so on. That might help. They do that in other countries. We advocate the principle that this is private information that should not be made public, but I do not see any problem in myself, because each of us who has earned money honestly can tell where it is, what it has and without any consequences financial or public or tax. Besides, I think our marriage is also cosmetic in nature. Two new bodies have been proposed here, and the Commission and the Council of the Commission. This proposal has been put forward in a long and wide manner and mainly in the matter of administration, appointment and so on. Very little is really said how the process between the Commission and the various bodies will proceed, even though the integrity plan is mentioned here and so on, which the government is supposed to adopt. If that is true, then we can wait a long time for this, for we know how slowly the government works in some respects, even though it is written here that such a plan should be before us in six months. If we ask ourselves what some of the known conflicts of interest are, perhaps even corruption, and let me say this, as I have said before, and no one has agreed with me, but it is worth considering, and this is that the current Office for the Persecution of Corruption has been placed in the Office of the Secretary-General of the Government. What does that mean? There's a herd of some offices, 22 or how many there were, among other things, this one. Who's gonna control themselves?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u63	Dr. Bernick, I'm sorry. I do not wish to be rude, but we have the right to discuss Article 2a of the Rules of Procedure and the amendment of the Group of Members to this Article, and I ask you kindly to narrow the debate to this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I listened very faithfully to what the speakers were saying before me, and I am glad that you finally noticed that. And I'm gonna end up with this. I don't know where this goes in Article 2, but look, here in the Rapporteur, a national anti-corruption programme is written on 10 pages. And you would think that some of these things are already part of the government's action today, and I'm going to give you just one case and I'm going to end up with this, which is, on page 61, B2 institutional measures. And he says: In this area, it is necessary to monitor the objective and politically impartial functioning of the official council, in order to effectively ensure the solely meritocratic employment and promotion of public servants. This is a serious breach; in fact, it should be one of the things the Commission should start to pursue. That's not the case, and that's why we all have all the government officials in the same uniforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. Mr Minister, representatives and other government representatives. We have a slightly improved bill ahead of us. I have to say, our comments are a little off. Some things are even arranged, but at the time of this amendment, which we are currently discussing, it is surprising that this scrupulous resisting and defending by the LDS representative is that this control of property, but it is not control over property, just information about property, that these gentlemen from this power elite are so terribly afraid. I am aware that in this way, a small step, if adopted, is being taken, is being taken to ensure that there is no better scrutiny of the people sitting in the supervisory and judicial bodies, in particular the supervisory authorities, these public institutions, public enterprises, then those which are predominantly state-owned. I personally am almost convinced that even here there are provisions in violation of how many supervisory councils some individual may be present. When I read in the newspapers, some names appear in so many control councils that if I were more careful, I would find that at least at some time intervals this is definitely in violation. That limit, I think it's on three worlds. No one's actually monitoring this today. There's a lot of freedom here. The main thing is that the real name is that that supervisor is ours, that it belongs to the power centres that are making decisions in this country, especially in this capital area, and then everything is allowed. However, that there is one terrible disorder or that there is an extraordinary interest in who will be sitting in the supervisory authorities and that this sitting in these supervisory authorities is also paying off, directly or indirectly, that is undoubtedly true. Why else would the authorities concentrate so narrowly on the electorate? Why? I think it would probably be much better for the state property if someone sat in just one or two supervisory authorities. That it would be distributed as much as possible. Surely, the benefits of this would be better cared for. For these gentlemen sitting in your supervisory bodies, because you don't allow people to be from the opposition, besides being supervisors in five companies, of course they're all company directors, and yet, I don't know how many bodies. And that's a terrible concentration. It's a terrible concentration of power. These people, some of these most powerful ones, are stronger than any minister. Of course, ministers are aware that they are farmers on the chessboard of these people. As a result, they must not take a step against the interests of these people. Look, when we are talking today about preventing corruption, the government should be based on, say, the practical cases of the most outright corruption in the drafting of this law. We know it's just the tip of the iceberg. But in the last year, some "out of the protruding" corruption affairs, the SIB bank, the awards to the managers of Elan, have just been revealed, Viator-Vector is selling systemic techniques. If the government came from asking how these cases could have been prevented, then the marriage would have been written differently. Then the need for supervisors to monitor or register their assets before a competent national assembly commission would already be contained in the government proposal. At the first reading, however, we found that the purpose of this law at the time was not to actually prevent corruption, but that it was some normivism and some showing of pigeons on the roof for the purposes of the public. If it were different, if those who are currently sitting at the offices had the feeling that there is a serious political will in this country to prevent corruption, if they had this feeling that they do not have it, I would conclude that they do not have it, then there would not be two leaders of this office for the director of the police. I think that we could make society more important and that it would also be a respectable place, more respectable than a police force, because police chiefs around the world generally do not have any further careers, I don't know what opportunities to do political careers and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u67	Mr Jerovšek, I also ask you to return to the amendment and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u68	I have the right to base my opinion on the need to include supervisors. Then the director and his assistant wouldn't have come to this place. Because you know [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u69	Mr Jerovšek, I remind you, I ask you kindly to return to Article 2.a.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u70	Madam President, you're wrong. I justify my debate. You can't define me here. You can't see what I'm gonna do to my head. But it's true that you're deconcentrating me with this. That's what you do. I have to move on. They do not see this perspective because they are aware that if the government wanted to prevent this, they would have allowed it to be written down on the basis that this supervision is also necessary for supervisors of public companies, state-owned companies. The government didn't write that down. You see, I'm substantiating what you're trying to prove that I'm not justifying. And who sits in these oversight councils? I admit there are capable people sitting there. That the government has such people, but in many cases they do not pursue public interest and public interest. If all these supervisory authorities were to share power and all of this, people would come from different parts of the world who would not belong to all one power centre, one political color, then I am sure that the SIB bank affair would not have happened if there were such supervisors. It would not be an affair to sell the system technology of Viator-Vector, which happened during the holidays on August 8th. There was no control at the time - no one was able to talk about this matter that was under way. The public was then on vacation, and this was planned. On August 8th, I called on the Prime Minister to cancel this sale because it is illegal for a miserable price of 460 million. Of course, the Prime Minister did not react. However, when this Viator-Vector has already sold for more money, a smaller share, a 29% share, of course, is done by the Prime Minister of Righteousness. Now he's in the papers saying he ordered an audit. Why isn't he when he was called by a member of the National Assembly? Now he's playing fair. And look, if in the supervisory authorities the ironworks of these system techniques, which are state-owned, were this spectrum of different supervisors, and if you were already controlled in this way, this is some psychological barrier before it works in the public interest to work in some private interest. I'm sure this affair wouldn't have happened. But the recruitment of these supervisory authorities has been recorded by journalists, somewhere in the newspaper, that they exist here literally, under the terms of "incestive links. They're literally the same blood type." We could read about incest connections, but it's not meant biologically, it's a metaphor and a parable. And it has already been said here what these supervisory authorities confirm, what sales of state property, I have listed two, a SIB bank, a system technique of the Viator-Vector and now a resell. We have other cases. See, when the New Bank of Credit was at the branch office in Dravograd in connection with the Friday case, a man who warned about money laundering through the branch lost his job. That the journalists wrote down the Evening, is the President of the Supervisory Board of Dinner, which was also accidentally the director of the Credit Bank, Mr. Glogovšek, in that famous statement said, "what should journalists be involved in this?"How do journalists allow themselves to talk about money laundering in the bank of Maribor. But that's what he was saying in his role as Chairman of the Evening Supervisory Board. And I am also sure that if it were then that this same gentleman should present some data here and two years later new data, because there would be an abnormal growth in money, property that does not come out of some service from some public function, so that he might behave a little differently. And because of this you see,, it is extremely important, and I also hope that other Members will be aware that we will also include members of the Supervisory Boards in this conditional supervision. Once again, this pains you very much because it will be more transparent who sits in these supervisory councils. How this is a privilege exclusively for people who behave in the elections and support something to be said for the election campaign, so that it can then happen - if this were to be controlled too, then a member would be more dissipated in the supervisory councils, then it would not be possible for a member to spend 22 million on the electoral campaign. You know that wouldn't happen. Of course, it pains you because these are your customers, but also Slovenian thinkers, I am sure that 15 million have spent because they put up a tent 1,000 square meters for the election campaign and rented all Croatian ensembles and everything, and they never submitted any accounts. And that's what's happened a lot. But this was also indicated by public companies because they were sitting there on the supervisory boards of the people with whom it was agreed in advance to act in this way. Once again, I propose and I hope that you are aware of the importance of also starting to fight corruption in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word in an orderly fashion. Mrs Zupan, Mr Vukko, Mr Sok and Mr Potsch. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Today, the expression of corruption is automatically linked to the abuse of public office and to the violation of laws. So, by camping, with public for private purposes. In Slovenia, corruption has long been more than just gifts and blue envelopes, but is increasingly occurring at the highest level, at the level of economic political elites. The only question is whether we have detected its destructive power early enough or in time, but not only a threat to economic development. In the opposition, we had already warned very early about irregularities, proposed changes in the area of incompatibility by performing a public function with a profitable activity, and also demanded greater influence from the opposition in the supervisory authorities. The fact is, as long as there is a political economic elite in power, there is a greater opportunity for corruption to work. Relationships are intertwined for many years and parallelize any supervision. Therefore, the proposed amendment to Article 2a seems acceptable to me. In addition to the governing councils, it seems proper for us to take the control councils and also to control the property of members of the supervisory councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. I'm sorry that colleague Jerovšek left, but what he was going to say, nevertheless. Quite a few of these were said to be frail resistance. On the contrary, it is a weighty thought. We're not fighting anything. We have often approached the opposition in our positions in this marriage. Those who have been working on this marriage since the very moment may not have been present many times. He says it's not about establishing control. Okay, I'm gonna use his words, it's about informing about property with a basic purpose of control, because we're working for it, because that's not just informationing. Why do Members have to inform? It is likely that in order to see whether he has taken advantage of himself or acquired some real estate value that is disproportionate to his or her earnings through his exercise of the function of mission. Isn't that control, Comrade Jerovšek? I think so. Okay, let's let it go. We're talking information. Thinking about what? Are we even aware that we will talk about the need for all the saints of primary schools in the Republic of Slovenia, all the saints of secondary schools to report their assets to the Commission. That's not what I'm for. I really don't. I don't think it's a fellow Member either. There's always talk about some people. My colleague Jerovšek, I would be very happy if you would confess one person who is a member of five supervisory authorities in the Republic of Slovenia within the meaning of this law. Please. What kind of legal persons are we talking about? But even if they are, let's say, condition that they are, doesn't it matter that you ban business with a company through your companies, where there is no limit if I'm a member of a supervisory board or a close family member? Isn't that essential? And speaking here, commenting on other things seems unnecessary. And here it has been repeatedly so imposed on the method of appointment, here we are not talking about human rights issues and the method of appointment, but we are talking in this law specifically about instruments that will, of course, try to limit and prevent these corrupt acts by clearly using these articles. This is why the law is also called anti-corruption. I will allow myself here to use the words that Mr Penko, the director of the office, has repeatedly used, cannot resolve everything. We must do more to prevent and limit corruption. Let's stick to Article 2.a. I'll point it out one more time. The only difference we are going to make is whether we are going to establish, I am not struggling in any way, whether we will establish for all these 1000 people in the Republic of Slovenia the obligation to inform about the property situation, with a view to controlling it, and let us ask ourselves who else will want to be a member of the public service council, the public fund. I provoke in a way. In order for me to be a member of the primary school council, high school will require me and my immediate family members, at least a spouse, to report. I think we're going too far here and we should stay on the core agenda to prevent business because there could be irregularities or there could be corruption. They have other data, they have the authority to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. A replica of the performance of Mr Wolf, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u76	I understand Mr Wolf in this sense that he must defend the interests of this elite from these benches of his LDS party. After that, I understand him. But I don't understand him if he's talking about some public interest. Then I can't understand him. And that there is also such a ignorance that there is no one in this country who sits in many supervisory councils. I don't know if they're in five, but I'm just gonna text you. Minister Kopač is in the supervisory board of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, ecological, I think even the President. Mr Bandelj, Secretary-General of the Government, is in the supervisory board of the clinical centre. As soon as it was an affair with tables, it quickly turned out, then the Slovenian Railways and so on. I don't know how many more of these control boards. I don't know if there's five of them, but just some names. But why is it necessary for Mr. Digger to sit in these financial institutions? At the bank, I don't know where else. On the other hand, Slovenia has now fallen out because of the lack of action of its ministry, that it is the only acceding country that does not respect the Kyoto agreements. Now, Minister Digač, we were unable to do so, but we were unable to communicate. Yeah, let him do his job, but not sit in control councils because it's worth sitting down. And the same, Mr. Wolf. There are people who are sitting, I think it will even prove to be true if this is determined that Members sitting in the supervisory councils are also not to be seated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. The provisions of Article 2a are therefore very broad. For this reason, it is clear that Members went a little wider in this debate, as Article 2a deals with when provisions 3 and 4 of Chapters apply. Chapter 3 speaks of incompatibilities, while Chapter 4 speaks of control over the assets of officials. The more I listen to this debate myself, the more it becomes clear to me that through this law, what some have already said is that we are catching heavy angina with camel tea. I think the best remedy for anti-corruption, of course, would be the exchange of power every once in a while. It's some kind of democratic standard. Everything else, when the same policy option remains in power for so long, means it starts to work according to the rules of relationships and knowledge. And that's actually the bed of corruption. No marriage, I'm sure, and I hope so, no law can prevent it. This policy is too intertwined with interests and, in fact, only by changing it can it intersect these interesting links. No law can remove them. You have done so, and so quickly you are trying to adopt a law so that we can show before the European Union that we have a good law, as the Prime Minister on TV praised last night, what this country has done in the prevention of corruption, and in fact did not have the right argument when the journalist listed various affairs in this order, which, of course, have not been completed. Apart from the Suštar affair, which has not yet been finalised, the judgment is not yet binding, none of these Slovenian affairs in the Slovenian court have ended. If I touch what my colleague Wolf pointed out. Of course, I understand this dilemma, and in a sense I agree with it. We need to respond to where we want to extend this control so that we don't actually get into a situation where there are, I don't know, too many people being supervised and too many people being supervised, because then of course the purpose of the law is lost. If the councils at the local community level mean that the property of these people is also identified, it is also felt that such a law would dramatically extend the number of those who should report or issue their assets and would have great problems. I don't know if that's the case, but I just don't see the interest of who else would be willing to sit in a world of institutions that you all know of, those who sit in sacred schools, local communities, kindergartens and so on, don't get paid for their function. At least in our congregation, I don't know what it's like. I don't think anyone would be ready to do that anymore. Of course, I think, because we will probably get to this answer that this is not the case and that the saints of the institutions are not the supervisory authorities. However, if the saints are in charge of the supervisory authorities, and then at the level of our local community, when I went through so little, I see no public undertaking, no public fund, no public institution, which would be in the majority ownership of the municipality, and after this dictatorship, if we included it in the supervisory authorities, these people would be in the category that has to declare and disclose their assets. I would therefore ask that the government representatives respond to this dilemma. If it is as I think it is, therefore, not covered by the boards of institutions, then, apart from the potential major municipal municipalities, local communities would be exempted from this dissemination by this amendment from this law. It seems to me that, when we adopt such an important law, we should, in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 2a, get some more information from the government so that we Members can actually have a situation before us so that they can understand the number of people involved in these governing bodies, and also what number of people would be covered if this amendment were adopted. I would ask the government representatives to reply to this dilemma before we vote on it, because it depends on how I decide. It should also be noted, however, that there is another provision in Article 29 of the Act, namely that only those who have more than 20% of their property in management or in a particular undertaking are subject to this verification, so that this also reduces the number of those who are thus covered and subject to this verification. I would really like to ask the government representatives to help explain this dilemma that is currently under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Penko has expressed his wish that I would like to speak after three more debaters who have been announced to respond to these dilemmas. Mr. Potts, Mr. Rokavec, Mr. Wolf. Here you go, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, we are pleased to consider the proposal for a law on the prevention of corruption, to the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u81	I'm sorry. I'm cleaning up with Mrs. Shirca. She called in the replica so I wouldn't disturb you. Go ahead, Mr. Potch. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u82	We are aware that this is a question that is certainly one of the most important for, hygiene and people's feelings, and also the most important because reducing the problem of corruption, however we would do it, would be unobjective. This is a constant danger, it is the possibility of appearing in many areas of social life. This is shown not only by surveys that show feelings but also mostly by individual phenomena. In this work we must be sensitive, consistent and even through this law, although the law itself cannot solve everything, help, regulate things. However, I would like to express my opinion and also my opinion in the parliamentary group that, at the same time, dealing with this law is a milestone, I would say, great demagogies, because it is possible to talk about everything objectively and unobjectively on the basis of the treatment of corruption. And since many times we do not know how to be consistent, considerate, sensitive to the spoken public word, many things have been said today, which is contrary to real estimates. In this regard, let me return or say a few sentences on the proposed amendment. I am with my colleague Wolf as a member of the parent working body involved in the drafting of the amendment to Article 29 and I think it is important. I was of the opinion that the amendment to Article 2a was not necessary and that so far we have cooperated in the drafting of the law between the opposition and the coalition in a way in which we have found many, many common solutions. But I must say that today I have also told Mr Wolf that exactly what is being explained today will happen. That the issue of acceptance or rejection of the amendment to Article 2a becomes a matter of readiness for the opposition to say that we have a law protecting the state and public interest or that we have a law on which the coalition has protected its people and corruption. And now, dear fellows and colleagues, some of you do. If this is the price of the adoption of the law, I must say that I would like to accept the amendment proposed by knowing what it will mean. I am pleased to note the warning given by Mr Sok, who warned of what he would mean. If it is true that it will be a requirement to identify twice, every two years, because that is how we, the wealth situation of many people who are really working for the public good, many people who have no connection and the possibility of gaining wealth as members of the supervisory authorities. And to be exposed to this or to decide to go to these supervisory authorities, to public institutions in the congregations, then I suggest that we really think about this. I am grateful for the suggestion that it was given to explain this in detail so that we know what we are deciding. Perhaps, after all, there are some intermediate options. However, I would like to assure, on my behalf and on behalf of the colleagues and colleagues of the United Nations, that there is no and no desire to exclude any or one person from the law, if possible, so that he can act in a corrupt manner in his position to do harm to public funds and benefit himself, and that the law would exclude him and give him these opportunities. I therefore suggest that we discuss this peacefully, because I think that if we all have a serious goal of helping this law as a single element, not as a single solution, to reduce the potential for corruption and to detect corruption, which certainly exists, then we will go with the same goal of not having the afternoon statements and listening to how someone wants to help it, and it has not been heard, because of one well-founded or under-thinking amendment and vice versa, who would like to protect all corruption or continue to allow it in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. In order, Mr. Rokavec, Mrs. Shirca and then Mr. Penko. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would briefly touch on this amendment and, above all, the debate that has aroused in this amendment. The fact is that it can actually happen that it will mean this law to prevent conflicts of interest and to limit the pursuit of witches to infinity. On the other hand, the risk of losing our forest in this precision when we fight for the bush. To be honest with you. Therefore, I believe that we are probably going too far in the current solutions to some of the issues and not enough in others. I cannot agree with the text as proposed in the amendment for Article 2a. However, I agree with some thoughts. But in fact, at those levels of members of the Supervisory Boards who have significantly more opportunities and power to abuse their position. Not to mention, especially in the supervisory boards, the SIB, let Slovenia's development society be in liquidation, KAD, SOD, NKBM, Triglav insurance company and so on. These are institutions, and these are supervisory councils with a significantly greater influence and also greater responsibility for the operation of these institutions or techfirms. That is why I believe that here - perhaps this amendment does not solve this issue, frankly, it does not solve it, but it could reasonably leave article 2a open to third reading and, on the basis of the relevant talks, find a more appropriate solution in order to include the members of the Supervisory Boards in these segments. However, as an amendment, it is not acceptable, but in this way it would be maintained that the article could be open and that in these areas, in these key segments, it would be possible to provide appropriate mechanisms for members of the supervisory committees in these areas to provide information on their assets to the Commission as well as to the rest. I am convinced that at least some of those I have listed have the power to influence and also to have the temptation of some to abuse the situation as a whole of others, from which the law requires the submission of property data every two years. It is therefore likely that it would make sense for us to consider, when deciding on Article 2a, whether it would not make sense for us to leave an open article here until the third reading and to give further thought to how this matter could be handled by the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Of course, the solution given in the amendment for Article 29 is significantly more appropriate than the one given in Article 2, although it was possible to be similar in the background, but the solution is of quality in Article 29 and will also lead to easier and more transparent life. However, it is true that there are still some facts that have been triggered in this debate, but in particular one common denominator of the debate, at least on the opposition side, could have plunged into some grave thought that you do not really want this law, given that the added value of camel tea, which extinguishes heavy angina or, in fact, does not need the opposition, but not just because it would mean additional costs, because something would be spent extra money, and it is very little money, as you can see in the explanation, because it is probably easier to talk about corruption in a very general way than it has already been said. However, it is best to offer opportunities to speak in mind and condemn without arguments so far as to confuse the notion that, for example, the day of the case, media censorship is already pure corruption. A few words would apply today to those who have been spoken. I'm sure the law coalition isn't afraid. On the contrary, in the fact that it was the coalition that upgraded it over what it had been, when it came to the hearing and was set up by the Office and proposed by the Government, it has in short deepened, conceptually significantly more accomplished, also through solutions that have understood the breadth of corruption, which has not only been focused on the institutions of public functions, but has also spread in this form, which we have today, to the private sector, and so on. However, I would like to comment on Mr Sok's claim, and I have previously applied for a replica that corruption and its links to the stability of the political elite in power constitute a commitment. This would be confirmed by the different practices and also by the facts of practice in Western Europe. I would like to quote at least some of the results of the research that show that there is no evidence of a causal link between corruption and, as you said, the political power or length of its political action in leading or participating in government. If I say so, Sweden is on the corruption scale you know, 6th place. Their client or client, who has led and participated in the government, has been doing so for 56 years in government or government. Norway is on the 8th level of corruption. For 40 years, the labor party has been leading or participating in government. Italy, which has replaced as many as 8 governments since 1992, is on the corruption scale in 35th place, with the Republic of Slovenia being, of course, a high 29th place. However, this law will certainly help to make the operation of all bodies more transparent. It will certainly go where it will be very difficult to control, even in the councils of public institutions, and so on, where, by the way, payments are not paid at least in social activities for work and sitting in saints and decision-making. However, this does not have anything to do with corruption, but it does have to do with Article 29, which will no longer be discussed, because it is important that those involved in the management or control bodies do not have the opportunity to deal with that body, but it is not dependent on whether it is paid or not. In public institutions, in schools, three Members are members of the world of Maribor drama, and they are not paid for it. But they can have a different effect on decisions. That's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The execution of Mrs. Shirce was not a replica. But your performance is easy. She named you and you discussed it earlier. Yeah, well, it's your turn to discuss it anyway. Here you go, Mr. Sok. Mr. Kelemina is behind you. Then, Mr. Penko, if you'll allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Thank you for giving me your word. My colleague, Shirca, was in charge. There's only one sentence I'd say. Research also shows that democracy in transition countries cannot be compared with the multi-century democracies of some of the other countries listed by you. You can't even compare Slovenia with Sweden. Sweden has highly developed civil society institutions. And where civil society institutions are so developed, it's limited through this way, but I'm not talking about plurality of media space at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u90	I would just add that to this amendment, that things might be a little awkward. The point is that we have already extended control in this law far, far, far, far, far, far, far. I'll always say, but obviously what I said before, I've probably hit the core, because some of these things you're imitating and challenging me now, and that's now a possibility of populism and so on. Gentlemen, ladies, who made it possible for me to have a little populism "spilling" here. Who made it possible? Did I get it myself? Please! I want to be an honest person all my life, I fight for it, so I don't have access to any information, no institutes, no institutions, no important individuals, I don't have access to. Because for the first time I started doing politics, I expressed myself as an honest man, what I know, everything that's connected to it, and today I'm completely alone. I can't take a step to avoid being ignored. That's the only reason. But if I just nodded, and I was with them, like some people do, I could be a very important person. That's not how I'm gonna do it. Who cares if I always look at everyone's fingers and see what they're doing? Nobody likes me, please! This has proved to be a hundred times and a thousand times. But there's one thing that needs to be said exactly. Now show me, I say that Slovenia is huge, everywhere, about corruption between the first five or that corruption is everywhere, everywhere, and no one will ever crush it. That's definitely it. But Slovenia is one of those very corrupt countries. I say so, but you don't know that, and I do. And I know because I know a lot of them, how it goes, I mean in the process, the process, and so on. S, I'm the only one who can't get to the files. I can't come and I can't prove it, that's definitely it. Now you're picking up on my populism. Please. I can't prove it to you because I can't get the documents and you won't. Then you should eavesdrop on and track everyone and have cameras in each office in order to find out who's actually taking the money and so on, and you should have it at home, because they're also doing it in the parks and everywhere you want. There's a million possibilities. And you'll never catch them all, that's for sure. I just think that I've made some arguments that have led to the fact that this has become so pervasive today. I'm sure I've given them to you, and you're reading to me populism now. I don't know, okay, media censorship. Well, it sounds very populism, but I'm sure someone's holding this censorship. We know the editors are individual, I'm not going to argue for the press. I've been told by individual journalists many times "I can't write this or I have to write it as I'm ordered". Yes, it was, it still was! The editors just don't leave because there are people in editorial positions who are just out of the right test, otherwise they can't. I say that excessive censorship is also part of political corruption. It can't be any different. I don't know, we can accept this addition to this article or we can't accept it. That's another thing. But it's always a general assessment that we've taken things too far. That's my personal evaluation. If the ministers sitting here were to carry out their duties as necessary, in accordance with their powers, then there would be no such thing, and some ministers before them and the presidents of the governments and so on. I think it's the authority that allowed this to happen with its failures. I have previously said in which areas all or inadequately regulated relations or rights and so on, on individual matters, as I mentioned earlier, road transport licences and so on. I apologize for hurting anyone, but mostly I don't think I've discussed it without arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Penk to give an explanation to Mr Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! In the case of this law, of course, it is a special law which in Chapters 3 and 4 objectiveises the criteria for control of the institutions of authority. This law needs to be examined in relation to the current law, which is the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity. If we look at it in this relationship, we will see that it is already without the proposed amendment to significantly extend the conditions and criteria and entities subject to this control. These are officials listed in Article 2 of the Law and for all those persons who are then listed in Article 2a of the Law. These individuals are subject to all the provisions of the law, i.e. the provisions of Chapters 3 and 4. Some of the cases mentioned here today, when referring to government officials sitting in the supervisory authorities of individual public institutions, are, of course, covered in a different way because officials in this bill are already covered without being specifically mentioned as members of supervisory authorities. This proposed amendment would in fact result in an unbiased expansion of control over non-members of the proposed amendment. Here, then, if we look at what is already covered by the proposed provisions of the law, we are left with individuals who are either public servants or in any other capacity and who are placed by the State or local community in some supervisory body of the public institution. They are not officials, they are not members of the management bodies, they are persons who are already subject to other legislation. For example, the Law on Public Servants, in the case of a public servant who lays down the criteria for non-compatibilities, which lays down the criteria for the restriction of business. Because, according to the criteria, there is no need for a new or special law to apply to them everything that applies to officials, so for the highest, I will tell the authorities in our country. Also to a certain extent, the Company Act applies to certain individuals and entities in the relationship between the different supervisory boards of administrations and the like. This expansion would actually lead to a conflict and an opaque state. In doing so, we must not forget that, according to Minister Bohinc, we are supposed to have about 3,000 public institutions, and the saints of public institutions are supervisory authorities. The public authority does not have another supervisory authority, so it is the supervisory authorities, for example, schools, kindergartens, hospitals and so on. This is about individuals sitting in these supervisory bodies, as I said, who are not officials, because they are otherwise covered. It is also for individuals who are not subject to Article 22 of this proposal, which speaks of non-professional officials, and are already covered by other provisions of the law. If we were to objectify the criteria and also for all of these individuals to report their assets and to be subject to this process, then we would get a crowd of some 10,000 individuals, who have no special connection to the direct state, I will say direct power. But this power of power is very circumstantial. If they commit any infringement, they are subject to sanctions under other laws, so that at this point we believe that even though the amendment's purpose is good, such objectiveisation of criteria is not appropriate for these individuals, in fact, that the law would lose the sense and purpose of the amendment to control the authorities in that country. The individuals to be covered in this way will, according to our assessment, be adequately covered by the amendment to Article 29, which can also be supported at this point and at this time. They are also covered by other rules which sanction and address any abuse or irregularities. P, I've already counted two of these. I reiterate that this is a matter of objectivising the criteria that should apply to those who are direct holders of power. D, otherwise the law actually loses that note, the content it brings. The government therefore does not support this amendment. It supports the amendment to Article 29, which adequately covers the supervision of the activities of supervisory authorities or members of supervisory authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 2a and the amendment to this Article and ask who wants to discuss Article 6 and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u94	With the aim of not opening a broad debate, I would say that this is an amendment that we have drafted on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I must say that I object to this amendment because I think that it is necessary for this institution not to have a system of so-called constructive non-trusts, that whoever proposes a replacement that identifies an irregularity in operation or an objective responsibility must, for example, bring in a new director. This stems from this inconsolable desire of the Liberal Democracy in recent times also in other changes, in government changes on the Chancellor's system. Because you'd like to have some sublime appetites. This is not necessary, for it will be an obstacle for any responsible person to be replaced at this site. That a person will be concrete for, I don't know, a certain time where it won't be able to get to life, even if, in the meantime, she does, if it turns out that something wasn't right in her past operation, because she can't be in such a position then, if she discovers that she was acting contrary to the intention of the institution she is carrying out. So I really don't get it. Instead of increasing public control of the people who will sit in these positions, you try to concrete their functions by giving up in advance, in case they find themselves unable or not working in accordance with the law to commit a crime against legislation or anything, and they will not be able to be replaced. What's behind it, some weird humane appetites? Very strange humane appetites are probably hiding behind it and, of course, I'm against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u98	I will reassure my colleague Jerovsk that this is not foreseen in these human resources solutions. Otherwise, this amendment seeks only to achieve the continuity of the work of this commission and the leadership of this commission. It is difficult to imagine that the Commission would be a certain period, but this period may take some longer, and it is necessary to take into account the provisions of the law which speaks of a public competition in order to be without a head - and only this is the case and nothing is hidden.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u99	Mr. Penko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you. The amendment government supports it. In doing so, I would point out that the Commission of the National Assembly, which will be an improved bill, is the supervisory authority of the Commission for the prevention of corruption, that this Commission is also one of the eligible candidates for the replacement or discharge of the President, Deputy or Commissioner, and that this procedure will then be taken into account in such cases. So the Commission, which will be composed of the opposition in the majority, will be one of the candidates who will be able to react if there is a violation of the law or the conduct described in Article 6 of this Act. In this case, I find the amendment somewhat inconsistent, since this should probably be resolved too, but the government reserves the right to correct this in the third reading, given that this is an amendment. Otherwise, the concept and idea of this article are such that the government supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, then Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u102	I am aware that the Commission will also be able to propose, but the Commission will have to come with a constructive non-trust. This makes it much harder to resolve. We know that there are constructive non-trusts, for example, in the case of a government, because we get as stable a government as possible, which has positive and negative consequences. We don't need constructive mistrust in this place. If it is found that it does not work in accordance with the law that it has committed a sin or anything, some objective responsibility, there must be an open possibility of such a discharge, because otherwise that body will be paralyzed. In addition, if I were to accept your explanation, the commission should appoint a director, not a government. That's another solution. That's not what you suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much. More than once today, it has been possible to hear what efforts have been made to bring the corruption law to the point it is now. More than once, a warning could also be heard if it is not accepted, what we are proposing, or if you have a different opinion, then the law will not be regarded as proof of the seriousness of the government's intentions and of the government's coalition to step on the fingers of corruption, which some believe to have been spread over measure in this country. But I think it is possible to find enough protection in the provisions of this law to challenge those who already see the kits and settings and do not know what else. I do not think that any good enough legal provision can be found against such pre-emptive mistrust, because those who believe that a choice has been made correctly, with all the appropriate verifications, will not be trusted and that it has been placed in the core of the barrage of corruption. Against such a possibility and such a view I think there is no good enough marriage solution. Of course, it seems to me that this supplement can be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 24 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u106	Members of the LDS will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 29 and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Wolf, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u108	I think that much has been said at the time of article 2a, and given the government's opinion, there is nothing to add, so of course we appeal to the opposition's fellow Members to reconsider these concerns and support this amendment and, of course, the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. In part, we have touched on Article 29 in the debate on Article 2a because they are somehow connected. But I would still like to clarify one dilemma with regard to the first paragraph of this Article. Article 29, paragraph 1, states: "Procurements may not operate in public contracts with business entities where the official or his or her family member has an indirect or direct shareholding of shares or other rights on the basis of which he or she is engaged in the conduct or capital of a business entity of more than 20%, etc. What I'd like to ask you is, if you don't have to write "no" here, his family member, but "his family members". It is clear that shares in a running company can be divided into family members and then none of the members will have more than 20% of the owners of the management share. It seems to me that this provision in this article is rather vague and, of course, it will also lead to several family members being divided. Then I would also raise a question concerning the last paragraph of this Article, which then states that the restriction referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article does not apply to the operation under contracts for the award of public contracts concluded prior to the performance of the official. I think it would also be necessary to define the time issue here in a slightly different way, and in this regard I might ask again or point out the question I raised yesterday to Minister Gabr. I asked him how it was possible for individual ministers in 2001, 2002 to succeed in calls for scientific research projects, if they did not have a certain advantage over this, it was a few million amounts, I would not mention them now. It is interesting that Mr Gaber replied to me in a way that this is a matter of norms that apply to members of the European Union and that all these projects started before these ministers became ministers. Since ministers or soon to go to the fourth year of the third year, I do not know that these contracts have been concluded, but he did not mention to me which years have been adopted, but it does mean that they will be able to draw on public money for at least four years according to some principle of success throughout the whole period. This, of course, does not seem appropriate to us in the opposition, and it would be necessary in this article, the last paragraph, to arrange it somehow, and this is still possible until the third reading, if this amendment, which has been tabled, could somehow be reduced to some degree, so that it does not mean any cementation or that even a speculative person could conclude a contract before the performance of the function, and then play this law over and over again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, it would be correct to add the second part, which, of course, was that none of the ministers had received a tolar in these projects, after you quoted the Minister as having responded. It is true that if you are fully quoted by Mr Sok, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u112	Look, I'm a source attack, it's a report on scientific research projects that were approved, and I quoted the minister yesterday. I also said what amounts are involved and also what activities were covered by these projects. I said all this and, of course, the minister then told me to fix it, that the ministers didn't get it, but they're project promoters. I didn't even go into this, or they got them, they're being misled in these reports as carriers of these projects, like of course all other citizens. And I was only pointing out if they weren't ministers as project promoters in some kind of priority. Because it could actually mean one way. We're talking about corruption. And also if someone influences their project to be easier to realize, there can be one way to act corruptly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u113	Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u114	I think it is good to know the technology of reporting research projects in this case and also to know the fact as to who the research project might be. This is related to an appropriate scientific address and professor's. I think yesterday it was explained that in this case it was not about the research hours that applied to an individual, not about money, but about the project. The project must, once again, have a properly trained carrier, which proves by its academic title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I also conclude the debate on Article 29 of the Law. I am opening a debate on Article 41 of the Law and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I also conclude the debate on this article and this amendment. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 19.55 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you all very much for your cooperation. At 1:45 a.m., we will move on to the 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the transfer of certain government services to the Ministry. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u116	We're moving to five. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on the transfer of certain government services to ministries. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Among us, I welcome Dr. Rad Bohinca, Minister of the Interior, who I give him the floor to further explain the bill. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u117	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! It is a law on the transfer of certain government services to ministries, which is one of the reform implementing rules if we are referring to the reform of public administration. As you know, one of the thrusts of public administration reform was to reduce the number of bodies in the composition and reduce government services. As a result, the Government had already adopted decisions in June 2003 on the reorganisation of government services, similar to the reorganisation of bodies in its composition. In June this year, a decision was taken on the abolition of five government services, namely the Immigration and Refugees Office, which is to go to the Ministry of the Interior, the Public Procurement Office, which would go to the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Drugs, the Ministry of Health, the Office for Persons with Disabilities and the Hospitals to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Office for Slovenian Language to the Ministry of Culture. A decision has been taken, given that the issues related to the functioning of these offices are being addressed in the sectoral laws, in order to ensure that this law uniformly regulates the way in which these activities are transferred to the ministries of the Ministry of Budget and all other rights and obligations continue to be addressed, are not abolished, are not reduced, but their tasks, staff, budgetary rights and all other rights and obligations are transferred to the Ministry of Field Affairs, as I said before. This is because one of the reform guidelines in the area of public administration reform is that the government then determines the organisation of its apparatus by itself and no longer by legislation. This uniform law requires a number of areas to be regulated in various laws. Thus, the scope of the Office of Immigration and Refugees should be regulated by the Law on Temporary Protection, the Law on the Ratification of the International Constitution and the International Organization for Migration. Similarly, as regards the Public Procurement Office, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures and the Law on Payments should be amended. As regards the Office of Drugs, certain provisions of the law on the prevention of the use of illicit drugs should be derogated from and as regards the Office of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Motor Vehicle Taxes and the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement in the Social and Public Health Areas. In fact, it is a sufficiently legal technical and organisational content of the law, for the transfer of tasks from government services to ministries. In the debates on the Committee, as well as taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, some amendments, which I propose along with the legislative text, have emerged on the proposal of the Ministry, so I propose that you support each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Committee on Internal Policy, as a parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law and colleague Dusan Vukko will present the report of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The proposal for a law on the delegation of the tasks of certain government services to ministries was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy at its 44th regular meeting on 4.12.2003. Following the introduction of the proposal, the Minister or State Secretary, in which the purpose of this Act was clearly highlighted, the content itself. When we heard the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, a debate was opened, at which two amendments were adopted by the mother's working body by 1 and 3rd. Thus, on the basis of these amendments adopted, a proposal for a law for which the Committee proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly has been prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you, Comrade Wolf, on behalf of the Internal Policy Committee. We will now hear the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague Majdi Zupan for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Modernisation of public administration, with an important focus on openness and transparency, should also require the integration of bodies and organisational units. Ten bodies in the Ministry have been abolished so far, and five of the 22 services are preparing to be abolished. Four of them are refugee relocation offices, the Public Procurement Office, the Drug Office and the Disability Office and patients, and are governed by law. While the Slovenian language office is governed by the government. The reason for the abolition was to be irrational and insufficient political cohesion, which meant that the initiatives and proposals of the said offices did not find the right interlocutor in the government. How these services will be placed in the administration itself, what the internal status of these services will be, and what form will be determined by the individual minister, remain open questions. Therefore, it would be good for the State Assembly to make requests to the government in this regard if it considers that certain services are important and that political responsibility is specifically identified for them. In our parliamentary group, we believe that two offices, the Slovenian Language Office and the Public Procurement Office, are of such importance that they should be preserved in this form and that an important political article in connection with the government should be added. At the same time, the concerns of the legislative and legal service concerning the question of whether the legal system is nearly automatic transfer of services to ministries were interesting. Furthermore, more detailed rules on the transfer of powers from the current disability office to two ministries would be needed. This raises the question of what will be the key to the division into the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health. There was also a concern about the Public Procurement Office, as a proposal for a new law was under way in the legislative process. So the question is, in which law should this matter be settled? The Secretary of State has answered a number of questions on the Committee, but we believe that further reflection is needed, particularly since only the nominal amendment of this part of the law is not sufficient. It is necessary to re-examine whether the content of the delegated tasks will also be such that the required material is fully covered. The questions are valid and we also need serious answers to the decision. Rationalisation yes, but not to the detriment of content that is still important and necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have already paid a lot of attention to public administration reforms in the National Assembly and have done a lot of work in this area. This means the adoption of new system laws on public administration, pay systems and public servants. By means of the Public Administration Act, we have given the Government the authority to organise a certain part of the public administration itself, in particular with a view to rationalising and more efficient work. This law, however, corrects a few more or less technical matters for the rear and puts certain offices in the respective ministries on a new footing. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we expect the proposed amendments to ensure better performance of the tasks, more rational business and, above all, substantive connection with the Ministry, and perhaps cheaper and better work. But there are legitimate fears about what will happen to the content that is being resolved today in the offices that we are shutting down. First of all, let's say the drug office, for example, did a good job, but it could do more and better if there were more listening and money. In the Young Slovenia Party, we expect that this will be done and that more will be done in this area. Offices or units in the Ministry must also receive political coverage, which will underpin their expertise with the necessary efficiency. It is also good to know how effective their work is in the new organisational units within the ministries, since this is a basic criterion by which we will realistically assess the merits of the proposed reforms and the abolition of offices. We therefore call on the proposer to keep us informed of this today, because in case of poorer quality of work, the decisions taken will need to be reviewed again. In itself, comparisons are also offered here with the offices that have remained and the eligibility of those to stay, compared with those that we are abolishing. It is true that the necessary regulations and other regulations are made public, but it is always useful to have transparent information about who is in charge. This is particularly important because it is clear that the reorganisation of public administration does not take place in a package and changes over time. We have already heard forecasts of reorganisation in five areas, which only confirms the justification of the previously proposed one. We will support the proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, while at the same time actively monitoring what is happening in the areas that coincided with the competence of existing and independent offices today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat has the floor for the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on the transfer of the tasks of certain government services to the ministries in one place is governed by the reorganisation of four government services, by which the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has avoided a number of minor actions, technical changes in several laws. It would be difficult to coordinate them in time due to treatment in different working bodies. Thus, such a new technical approach has proved to be the least complex, following a proposalable verdict of at least bureaucratic. In addition, in the UK Group, we can also accept the Government's explanation that the proposal does not apply to the Slovenian language office, because it was only established by a decision of the Government, but not by a specific law, and therefore the transfer of its activities is the responsibility of the government. We will support the law because, according to the applicants' assurances, a small component of the reform or modernisation of public administration is focused on organisational adjustment to functions and business processes in the administration, as well as on rationalisation linked to the integration of organs and organisational units. By adopting the Law on State Administration, the National Assembly left the Government to decide on the internal organisation of the state administration, which confirmed the possibility for the government to determine the number and work of the authorities in the composition of the ministries. Thus, a sub-legislative provision was adopted which will make up ten bodies that did not comply with the legal criteria placed in the relevant ministries. First, the reorganisation touched five services, and in the law only four: the Drug Office, the Immigration and Refugee Office, the Disability and Patients Office, the Public Procurement Office and the Slovenian Language Office. In this way, the rationality of operations should be increased, and the status of these services should also be strengthened. It is therefore not possible to oppose the proposed changes at principle level, but it cannot be overlooked that concerned individuals or groups are advertised in the public domain, in particular in certain offices or government services, who believe that the transfer of activities to each ministry will distort their independence and reduce the efficiency of each government service. The thoughts were concentrated especially at the Slovenian language office. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the concern for Slovenian, as the official language of this country, cannot depend solely on government service, but is the responsibility of the whole government, in which one ministry is left with a coordinating function. The state of Slovenia must ensure the status of Slovenian with active language policy. This should include the provision of care for the development and culture of the language, in order to ensure legal aspects of its status, for the continuous scientific research of language life and for the dissemination of linguistic capacity. In our opinion, the Ministry of Culture should be responsible for the formulation of language policy and the possibility of its implementation. However, other ministries responsible for specific areas of the use of Slovenian should be involved in the performance of its tasks related to language policy. A great deal could create a coordinating consultative inter-resort body. It would be useful to adopt a national language policy programme, with an important role to play also for the national assembly to monitor the implementation of the national programme. Nor should we forget the already existing Working Group on Language Policy and Language Planning, which already has a second mandate within the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you. We will hear the position of the Slovenian People's Party delegation presented by Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, and Members! Representatives of the government, Mr. Minister! Under the State Administration Act, the government reorganises state administration at different levels. The present bill is prepared in the context of this reorganisation. It has turned out that the number of government services exceeds the needs of the so-called political centre of the government. Certain government services are to be abolished in accordance with the proposal for a law and their tasks, staff and documentation have been transferred to the competent ministries of the field. Five government services, which are expected to be terminated, have a small number of employees, which makes it impossible for them to justify the status of a single authority with all the relevant powers. Their abolition contributes, inter alia, to rationalisation, by reducing the number of budget users and by abolishing overhead activities. In the SLS Group, we believe that the proposal is positive because such a transfer prevents duplication of functions while at the same time allowing for a precise placement of responsibilities for individual areas. I have already mentioned that five government services are expected to be abolished. 4 are covered by sectoral laws and 5 government services, the Slovenian language office, is not subject to legal material. The Ministry, which is expected to be responsible for the area of today's Slovenian Language Office, will be able to better regulate the proposaler's explanation by amending the Law on State Administration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is an area which must not be put in the background at all. Language is a major part of national culture. We believe that the abolition of the Slovenian language office is permissible only with a clear commitment to regulate this area at the legal level within the competent ministry or with the possible establishment of a state office. The very consciousness of the Slovenian language has been preserved by our people in this part of the world. Therefore, taking care of the Slovenian language at the time of its integration into the European Union will give rise to new dimensions, and it is therefore necessary to be aware of this fact in all segments of society. In the SLS Group, we are in principle in favour of the bill. Again, we stress the need to think more carefully about the transfer of the competent Slovenian language office, as it is a matter of material to which there will be a substantial increase in responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic, a member of the Slovenian National Party Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Mr. Secretary, government associate, Ministry! In the context of public administration reform in the Slovenian National Party, we support one of the measures, which is the transfer of some government services to ministries. In particular, we support this because we hope and want to achieve the goal of modernising the Slovenian public administration or the objectives that are: legally operational, professional, responsible, politically neutral, open, transparent and efficient public administration. According to the information we have, we have found that there are currently 22 government services among the government services, which, according to our assessment, exceeds the needs of the political centre, so only those who carry out technical tasks for the government and those who provide professional support for the coordination power of the government centre should act as government services. We have already heard which of those government services that are supposed to be transferred by this proposal to the ministries in question. We also estimate in the Slovenian National Party that this will achieve two positive effects, the first we call efficiency or rationalisation. It is a reduction in the number of budget users, the discontinuation of overhead activities, better use of resources in ministries. The second positive effect, however, is a clear placement of political responsibility for these areas, and it is even more important, according to our assessment. Even more important is the financial assessment of the proposed law, which makes it clear that it does not bring additional burden on the budget, but vice versa. Indirectly, it brings positive financial effects by reducing the amount of wage funds due to the abolition of the function or the position of government officials. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we remind the law-makers, of course, of ourselves and all our colleagues, of the assessment given by the legislature, in particular that the law-making law actually works more than the law itself. In this nomotechnic field, I think both the preparers and the competent services will do their part. To conclude the opinion of the Slovenian National Party. Once again, we support this measure and this law as part of the measures envisaged for the reorganisation of public administration. In particular, due to the reduction in the number of employees and reduced costs. He's asking and leaving us only one question, respected colleagues and colleagues. We are in favour of the fact that the competent services that will go under the competent ministries remain and become under the supervision of these ministries, but that is an open question, at least in our opinion, perhaps another one will have an idea, and this is a question of objective action. However, the issue of objective action can sometimes be subjective. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u130	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by colleague Majda Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u131	Dear Government Representative, colleague and colleague! It is, or perhaps, a fashion word, but it is still a technical law that speaks of the transfer of government services, because with the State Administration Act we passed a transfer last year or perhaps the establishment of services in the composition of ministries we trusted the government. The government sector shall organise itself in the most rational, efficient and flexible manner, within the limits of its work areas and competences, which are nevertheless covered by the National Assembly. By regulation, the government has so far abolished 10 bodies in the composition of ministries, which will no longer exist after 1.1.2004, at least in this form or will be within another framework. The transformation of the status of 22 government services, of course not all, is logical in many or most cases, as it is on the one hand for independent entities that are some kind of ministries in small. On the other hand, they are without political power because they have no word or power within the government. One directly refers to the President, the other to the General Secretariat, and the other to the Ministry without a licence. This law formally abolishes four or reshapes four government departments, not five, as the explanation mistakenly states. So, those who are bound by regional laws. And 17 will continue with the work. So today we are talking about less than twenty percent of the transformation of government services. The fate of others can only be guessed, that is, those who are not legal matter, say, who do not have their references in the field laws, do not make decisions or do not make decisions. Nevertheless, it is here to point out that their possible transformation, or one that has already taken place, might nevertheless be reflected in the law defined by the Ministry of Labour. If we are talking about the transfer of the previously quoted Slovenian Language Office within the Ministry of Culture today, we could also reasonably expect to define the tasks of ministries in the field or in the State Administration Act as an extension of its work cycle. The same applies to the transfer of the Public Procurement Office within the meaning of the definition of the powers of the Ministry of Finance. Since we do not have all other government services as a whole in view of possible transposition or preservation, we can conclude that those services which have been further strengthened by European legislation remain, as an example, to be provided by the Office of Equal Opportunities, which has more competence than it has so far under the new directives or provisions or that they remain those which will be clarified and profiled by time, provided that I give the example of the Office of Religious Communities, which is supposed to be defined by the emerging law, or that those who will be redefined by the legal framework, such as, say, the Anti-Corruption Office, which is being formed into a different body at this meeting or in those days. In short, several government services remain after statistics, from the General Secretariat of the Government, the Protocol, the Personnel Service, the Joint Government Services, the Information Centres, the Government of Slovenia Law Services, the Government Information Office, Sova, the Statistical Office, the UMAR, the Nationality Office, the Conditional Office for the Prevention of Corruption until further notice, the Office for Religious Communities, the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Office for European Affairs and the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Structural Policy and Regional Development. In this respect, we support the reorganisation of four official services.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Other position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, DeSUS, Vojko Celigoj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group of Members, we have always been critical of increasing the cost of the country and, of course, supporting their rationalisation. As already defined in the documents of the party, we are always seeking periodic public assessments of the effectiveness of the functioning of the public administration. The government has clearly concluded that the abolition of five offices, hence government services, also means a reduction in costs for the country. At the same time, the quality of work due to the individual office should not be reduced by the competent minister in the opinion of the Government. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that the existence of a special office for a particular area does not necessarily mean providing more quality and professional work, but we must take a look at which offices are being closed and may also open up the possibility of a "viceversa" flow, that is to say, to exclude one of the sectors from the Ministry if the need arises. With the adoption of this law, the Office for Drugs, the Office for Persons with Disabilities and Patients, the Office for Immigration and Refugees, the Office for Public Procurement, as well as the Office for Slovenian Language, although the latter is not the substance of this bill. For the DeSUS group, the Office for Persons with Disabilities and Patients is particularly interesting, since many older people are more likely to be sick, and many of them are disabled. However, we believe that the envisaged organisational changes are, at least from a formal point of view, appropriate. Given that the disability sector already operates in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which regulates the situation of persons with disabilities, it makes sense for the Office of Persons with Disabilities to go under the authority of this Ministry. However, when it comes to health-related matters, in one way or another, we support the division of the powers of this ministry with the Ministry of Health in the parliamentary group, because we believe that it will help with the professionalism of the work. The implementation of the legal provisions can bring many things that are not the intention of the legislator, so in the DeSUS Group, we believe and hope that practice will also confirm positive changes. If that is not the case, despite the rationalisation of costs, we have done nothing. In addition, we appeal to the government to reconsider the establishment of an office for the elderly. For in the DeSUS Group, we believe that according to the number of elderly people and their special needs, we would really need an organ that the elderly would feel as their own. We also ask the Government what is the criterion for abolishing offices or why some offices are prioritized and others are still waiting for their reorganisation and rationalisation. Finally, Members of the DeSUS Group are interested in which actions will be abolished and transferred to certain ministries. We may not decide on their abolition in the National Assembly, but we think that we Members have a right to know how the other offices will continue to deal with them. For example, the fate of the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Office for Religious Communities, for Nationality, for the prevention of corruption, as well as some others, is unknown. It is necessary to consider the situation of the other offices before they face any such or other change. It is interesting that a number of offices that are terminated are more or less active in areas related to the situation of a small or no majority group of people. It follows from everything that the DeSUS Members approve of the changes in this area and we will also support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 19.12. this year, following the end of the last item of the agenda. I'm breaking up the agenda with this. The meeting will continue with the 6th item of the agenda at 2 p.m. and 30 minutes. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u135	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR ADVICE OF DEVELOPMENT OF TOURISTICS The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Among us, I welcome Dr. Teo Petrin, Minister of Economy, and Master Darjo Radič, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Economy. I give the floor to further explain the bill to the representative of the government. Will that be the secretary? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u136	Mr President, Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to introduce to you the basic solutions of the proposed Tourism Promotion Act, which replaces the current Act on the Promotion of Tourism of 1998. With the new law we promote the development of tourism and want to address the fundamental shortcomings of the existing law on the promotion of tourism, and create a favourable system environment for successful and effective development of Slovenian tourism. The content of the proposal consists of three sets. The first, most important package, which is also the most novelty, concerns the promotion of tourism development. The second relates to the area of tourist tax. The third package relates to the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist arrangements, tourism management and monitoring activities and the provision of tourist sports services on a gainful basis. The first set of laws governing the promotion of tourism development is based on the new development paradigm of Slovenian tourism as defined in the Slovenian Tourism Strategy 2002-2006 adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in July 2002. The strategy follows the fundamental development objectives of the economic strategy in Slovenia and is based on entrepreneurship, a market-entrepreneurship approach, and the concept of establishing a public-private partnership and civil society in planning, designing and marketing the Slovenian tourism offer. Accordingly, in the draft law we abolish all the provisions of the existing law, which, on an administrative and not just by a country, wants to promote the development of tourism in Slovenia. These provisions are contrary to the new development paradigm whereby, through the process of public-private partnership in the planning, design and marketing of the Slovenian tourist offer, the responsibility for achieving the strategic objectives set in the common strategy of Slovenian tourism is assumed by all tourism providers. It is a provider of tourist services, tourist companies and their associations, municipalities and the state. The responsibility for achieving the common strategic objectives is reflected in the responsible and effective implementation of the role of individual tourism providers in the development process. The role of tourism service providers, the real tourist economy, is to develop a high-quality tourism offer and increase their competitiveness and to direct development into a new investment cycle based on the new development opportunities of tourism as defined in the strategy. The role of municipalities is to ensure favourable conditions for the development of tourism in their area and to ensure public interest in the development of a tourism offer based on the principle of sustainable development. The role of the country is to manage and coordinate strategic planning for the development of tourism and to create an enabling environment for the development of tourism, which will help all other tourism providers to carry out their tasks more effectively as defined in the Slovenian Tourism Strategy. In line with this paradigm and defined roles, the ambition of the law to formalise the role of the state in the development of tourism is to provide it with a legal basis for the responsible implementation of its role, which, of course, it has in achieving the strategic objectives of tourism development. The second ambition of the law is to promote the application of the principle of public-private partnership, an interesting and no longer mandatory administratively defined merger and integration of tourism providers at different levels of integration, and to give basic legal bases and guidance to municipalities as well as to the second segment of the public sector. The existing law on the promotion of the development of tourism does not guarantee all of this. The main objectives and objectives of this proposal are as follows. First time. It sets out a way of strategic planning and implementation of tourism policy at national level by defining a basic document for strategic planning, this is a strategy for Slovenian tourism and a basic implementing document for the implementation of the policy to promote the development of tourism, tourism policy and providing a legal basis for their monitoring in line with the new development paradigm. Another time. It identifies the main areas of action and activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by which it directs tourism operators towards achieving the common strategic objectives. These areas include: the development of systems for the development of tourism, the marketing of Slovenia's comprehensive tourism offer on domestic and foreign markets, development incentives for the development of new integrated tourism products, the reconstruction and construction of tourism infrastructure and urban planning of the area for the development of tourism needs, development incentives for strengthening sustainable tourism development in the area of eco-management and improving the quality of tourism, the development of human resources in tourism, development incentives for the strengthening of tourism culture and international cooperation programmes. These areas are significantly broader than those defined by the existing law. Third time. It also lays down the organisation of the implementation of the tourism policy by establishing, in addition to all ministries involved in the implementation of the tourism policy, a public institution responsible for the marketing of the entire tourist offer of Slovenia in domestic and foreign markets, a Slovenian tourism organisation - and laying down the means and opportunities for other legal persons of the public and private sector to participate in the implementation of individual measures and activities. In doing so, it introduces an instrument of public authority to carry out the administrative tasks defined in the tourism policy and lays down the conditions for carrying out activities of public interest in the field of promoting the development of tourism. Fourthly, it lays down public funds for the implementation of the measures and activities of the tourism policy, namely the state budget and, in particular, the allocation of concession fees for the adaptation of specific gambling. Fifthly, it sets out a framework for planning and implementing a policy to promote tourism development at the level of the tourist area, without prejudice to the municipal competences defined by the Law on Local Self-Government, but only gives them instructions for handling a specific area of tourism that is not specifically regulated by the Law on Local Self-Government. In doing so, it directs them to take into account the strategic development guidelines set out in the Slovenian Tourism Strategy. In particular, it lays down dedicated sources of financing for promoting tourism development at the level of the tourist area which is the income of the municipality and on this basis determines for what purposes a dedicated resource may be used. For example, for investments in the common tourist infrastructure or for the provision of activities and services of public interest. The law does not specifically lay down an instrument for the implementation of these activities and services, but defines the clear responsibility of the municipality to ensure the implementation of these activities and services and the purposeful use of dedicated sources of financing to promote the development of tourism at the level of the tourist area. In order to encourage the integration of municipalities in the joint planning and implementation of the development policy in the tourist area, which normally exceeds the boundaries of one municipality, we set the tourist area as a level of law to promote the development of tourism. In the field of tourist tax, the proposal for a law in the main part summarises the existing regime. Only certain exemptions and partial exemptions for the payment of the tourist tax are excluded and the municipalities are given the opportunity to provide for additional exemptions for the payment of the tourist tax, if that is in their interest. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u137	You have a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u138	In the field of laying down the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist arrangements and related tourism management and monitoring, we abolish all those provisions of the current law which have been linked as discriminatory in relation to the providers of tourist services from the Member States of the European Union. In particular, two Directives [[End warning sign]] - just to complete - i.e., the Package Travel Directive and the Professional Qualifications Directive. Perhaps even to conclude that the bill has had a broader debate, both in the State Council, on the Subcommittee on Tourism of the National Assembly and finally on the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly. Of course, representatives of the Slovenian Tourist Association, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and individual municipalities also participated in this process. The opinion was also added to this by the legislature of the National Assembly. These were mainly more technical corrections, which then improved only the clarity of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a parent labour force. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Undersecretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! At its 43rd meeting, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly considered the proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the assembly for consideration of the contributions. You have a comprehensive report ahead of you so that I will not read it, but I will only give a few clarifications on how we came to this report or to the amended bill. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the Government's position on this opinion and the numerous comments and suggestions made by interested organisations. They were given by municipalities, which, according to Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, were specifically invited to comment, agencies for tourism and local tourism organisations, economic chambers, tourist associations of Slovenia, consumer associations, many societies and their associations, and we also received a number of individual comments from individuals and other organisations. These comments were received by the members of the Committee and received by the members of the Group; they are also available on the Network in such a way that those who have not yet looked at them have the opportunity to take a look at them. The number of respondents to many comments shows a great interest in tourism and the definition of their role in the law and the exceptional complexity of tourism activities. We were aware in the Committee of the difficulty of addressing this bill. In view of the large number of different comments, including those opposed, we wanted these comments to be considered as carefully as possible. That is why, as Madam Minister has already said, we organised a discussion of the bill and the comments on the Tourism Sub-Committee led by colleague Pohorec, Vice-President of the Assembly and also the Committee on the Economy. We organised four coordination meetings and a number of interviews with representatives of the applicants, commentators, the legal and legislative services and the professional services of the Committee. On the basis of these interviews, proposals for amendments to the Committee were prepared. Unfortunately, some comments were made, and I would like to stress this in particular, given too late and could not be taken into account at the Committee's meeting. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee adopted, on the basis of the above-mentioned coordination meetings, the amendments given in the report. In addition, the Committee adopted some amendments proposed by Mr Dušan Vukko, the SNS Group and the coalition parliamentary group. On this basis, a complementary bill has been prepared and I propose that we adopt it. The Committee on the Economy also discussed the content of the amendments of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which are once again submitted to the amended draft law. The amendment was not adopted by the Committee of the Amendments, but the intention of the amendment to Article 5 which refers to the strategy has been taken into account in its amendment number 3 in the text "the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the strategy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia", and more parts of the intention or content of the amendment of this parliamentary group, which you have before you again, is taken into account in the amendment number 2 to Article 5 in the text "after a public discussion with all partners on planning the development of Slovenian tourism" - this is a partnership. The government is obliged to hold this public debate before adopting the strategy, as all strategies are adopted by it. Such a solution, of course, is also systemicly consistent, given that all strategies are accepted by the government as its document and are, of course, generally addressed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. They shall follow the views of the members of the groups. First, I give the floor to the New Slovenia Group and Master Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have heard a number of words about the promotion of tourism in Slovenia, we have seen many strategies, nothing so many strategies, but we have not made any visible progress in Slovenia. Have we ever wondered why? Probably because we still understand tourism as some sort of central-plan model and because this area is mostly dominated by people who have worked in another system and have been in these positions for decades. Many things are changing for the better, but in order to reach a comparison with the other countries that are surrounding us - this is far from happening. For decades, the same problems have been repeated, namely, that those who run or run these companies are staring at someone else and pointing at someone else with their finger at what they should do and not enough at themselves to turn their own innovation into action. Even the explanation of the law, the law itself is written quite in an incomprehensible and administrative language. Therefore, there is little to expect from such a vocabulary. Tourist organisations too often see their perspective in the collected tourist fees and their own survival, and economic development and development are in a different way. Instead of being allies, partners, promoters and promoters are their own purpose. In Slovenia, we have not yet realized that joint performance, joint organisation, network operation is much more effective, because we can work together and we are useful. The law will not achieve a link between the public and the private sector, because the problem is the thought that expects first step from the other before the one who expects to take his own step. Free economic and interesting integration is the key to development. If we add to this the role of public funds and countries in the form of state aid and investment, co-financing, performance abroad, common affairs, support to the information network can produce the corresponding results. The news that the law imposes may, in the initial stage, have a problematic impact on our tourism organisations and organisers of various travels. So far, they have been unduly protected, and they will compete with competition from now on. For the longer term, we can expect improvements, as foreign agencies will bring into our space certain diaphragms, innovations, new approaches in the form of marketing, approaches and also foreign guests, if they will, of course, want to survive. Slovenia has something to offer but does not know what to offer now and how. We need to amend our legislation in order to comply with EU legislation, in particular as regards consumers, consumer protection and insurance, with a number of problems, with fortunately those who have benefited from abuses also failing, so these stories have been instructive, for others, unfortunately, some users, also painful. At the very least, harmonisation in qualifications is essential. Europe is much more than that. Whether order should be formalised so strictly, in particular as regards licences for the sale of tourist arrangements and licences for the activity of the organisation of tourist arrangements - 6 years for the organisation of tourist arrangements. As we have seen in the Social Protection Act, which requires some guidance for 20 years of good practice. Well, this is no different than the protection of certain privileges and cesovo objectives. The distribution of State aid is left to the Minister too freely. The criteria should be defined. There is a possibility of corruption in the distribution of money or the distribution of funds under the table. Sergeant's license plate. This Chamber of Commerce must report on the number of monitoring, management and relation. Sorry, that's too much. [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] [[...]] Well, just, if you don't mind, final thought. As long as we understand tourism primarily through prism, how to fairly collect tourist fees or a description of how the tourist guide has done its way and follow-up and how many fat tourism strategies we will have, by then the development of kilowatt tourism will be. In the past, that was the case, and there seems to be little to look forward to in the future. The problem is not in marriage and paper strategies. The problem is in the head, in the mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u143	Following is the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia and Peter Levič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. So it's tourism. Tourism is the world's largest economic activity, it is a civilizational achievement and it is one of the fundamental factors in economic development. It is also the second fastest growing industry on a global scale and is even expected to be the first by 2020. The tourism activity in Slovenia contributes more than 400 billion Slovenian tolls of joint transport or 9.1 GDP and employs 52,500 people. The foreign tourist inflow is slightly less than €1.2 billion and represents about 10% of Slovenian exports of goods and services. Today, Slovenia represents 0.3% of the tourist visit to Europe. From this point of view, Slovenian tourism is already an important economic activity. Slovenian tourism is planned to become one of the leading sectors of the Slovenian economy in this decade [[Istrabenz, Sava Goodyear]] . This is why Slovenian tourism is an important business opportunity for the Slovenian economy and social development, with the main capital of tourism being people and knowledge, especially young people. In particular, for young people tourism is one of the most promising personal, professional and business challenges, it is only necessary to enable the ideas of individuals or groups to come into play and to be able to survive. The law does not give sufficient attention to basic organisation and regional funding. The tourism development strategy by 2006 identifies a meaningful geographically rounded regional tourist areas through which coordination between national and local levels, i.e., for the purpose of promoting the development and marketing of tourism offers in Slovenia and abroad, could be carried out effectively. Without a stable WTO link [[Slovenian Tourist Organisations]] regional factors cannot properly implement programmes and activities to promote development and marketing that are optimally coordinated with specific tourist providers and the environment at local level, where the Slovenian tourist offer is created and implemented, which is brought into contact by domestic and foreign tourists. With the relevant additions in this area, the WTO would actually become a hub of interest for all partners and coordinators of effective implementation of the partnership in the annual WTO work programmes, or a representative organisation of all tourism providers in Slovenia. If we do not define it, we allow tourism liberalism, which can lead to anarchy in the tourist offer and its marketing. We should also make more direct arrangements for a horizontal partnership between the public, private and social sectors at national level, allowing for easier and more effective coordination between all representative partners of these sectors at national level and a strong representative role of the WTO in targeted activities. Nor does the law provide for sufficiently clear definitions, conditions and incentives to achieve a more effective and transparent public, private and civil society partnership at local or regional and national level. This law allows the privileges of large tourist companies in particular, but not smaller tourist operators. We are people tourism, so it is necessary to take into account both the receptor or the director of the large tourist company and the interest of the family that runs the rural tourism on the highest mountain farm. The law allows the competent ministry to decide which organisations are in the public interest, without clearer conditions and provisions equivalent for all. So tourism is a young, evolving sector in which many young people can find a business or career challenge, but unfortunately this law does not fulfil it in the proposed form, so we will not support it in the Young People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has the floor for the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Our parliamentary group, the Slovenian Democratic Party, does not oppose the proposed amendment to the law on promoting the development of tourism, nor will we oppose some amendments. However, we point to some things, perhaps even the title of the law itself. We believe that the title of the law is wrong "Promoting the development of tourism". In our opinion, it would be more appropriate if the law had a simpler title, namely "The Organization of Tourism Act" or "The Tourism Act". This bill, according to our assessment, has no role to play in promoting tourism, even less the development of tourism. This, of course, can be seen in the text of the law and also in the acceptance word. Nowhere is a single word mentioned or a measure to actually encourage it even less so as to develop it. That the area of tourism in Slovenia is inconsequential, it also shows that we adopted a new law on the promotion of tourism five years ago, with some changes in 2000. Then today we find that there are major shortcomings and that the same minister and the minister, perhaps others, are now sleeping with ashes, that the previous law was bad, and that there have been many shortcomings, such as the Constitutional Court's conclusions, on which some articles have been repealed. It simply came, let's just say, to mention the resistance of business entities to cooperate with local tourism organisations and even when we were preparing or adopting this law, those Members who were with us in the adoption of this law were skeptical of such an arrangement and actually proved to be in practice; even more, the matter is even unconstitutional. Then, for example, the closure of tourism in municipal frameworks. An extremely large weakness and a flaw in the previous marriage. It is clear that all those environments that are already tourism-developed, which have the potential to develop tourism in such or other forms, or already have a high level of development of tourism in their environment, do not allow, under any circumstances, a tourist destination or the possibility of tourism in a wider environment, regions or province or larger municipalities to develop tourism in such a wider area. In fact, you see for yourself that these effects proposed by the previous law are even contrary to what was expected. Now you expect the new law to remove this weakness. Of course, we wish it were true. But we're saying there won't be any. Theory, theory - not in terrorism, I was going to say - theory in tourism is not going along with practice. I really don't! Especially if there are no relevant programmes at local level and if there are no adequate resources, if there is no adequate capital. I don't know how you imagine, especially in those environments where tourism isn't developed, but they're extraordinary, maybe, natural things, even culinary, even people. The interest of local communities is great. In short, all the possibilities, the resources are basically available, but there is no means, no capital to make tourism come to life. And here I do not see in this bill, or our Group sees no promotion of tourism, but even less of any development. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This law guarantees none of this, as we have said, and with nothing to promote and develop tourism. [[...]] With a kind word that you can do a lot of things and it's very necessary - whether it's far too small. What we miss: we miss programmes that would actually be funded by the state under the watchful supervision of the country, along with international experts, concrete programmes, providing funds and also introducing an incentive [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] tax policy. [[...]] If there is no one, there is no successful development of tourism in Slovenia we will not have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you. Janko Weber, United List of Social Democrats, position of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. We note from the United List of Social Democrats that the law so far has not come to life to the extent envisaged, and this is particularly noted in the establishment and operation of local tourism organisations, as there has been a stalemate since there is insufficient interest in tourism operators in the compulsory form of association as envisaged so far. In fact, we missed all these performers' partnership. We therefore welcome the objective of the proposed law, which says that the development of tourism is based on the principle of partnering tourism service providers, tourism associations and their associations, municipalities and countries in the planning, design and marketing of tourism offers. Of course, when we read this law, we also found that the proposaler did not pursue this objective effectively enough, so we also participated in the creation of some solutions on the Committee on the Economy, which in our view really further underpin the objective of the Partnership Act in the development of tourism. Above all, we believe that the law is more transparent than the previous one, because somehow it defines the national level of responsibility for the development of tourism and, of course, the local level of responsibility for the development of tourism. At national level, we note, of course, that the Ministry or Government is the most responsible and responsible for the preparation of a tourism development strategy adopted on a proposal from the Ministry responsible for tourism. Of course, there was some kind of lack of a national assembly in this part, Parliament and the Committee have come to a solution that the National Assembly is aware of this strategy. In this way, we believe that a better partnership has been achieved at national level than the proposaler had originally planned. Of course, it is also an important part in the implementation of tourism at national level, which will be established under this law and will also be financed from the State budget. If we look at the local level, the formation of tourist areas is left to the municipalities. One or more municipalities can form a local or tourist area, but, of course, the municipalities in these tourist areas under this law are obliged to respect the strategy adopted at national level. Of course, the way to finance the local level of tourism development was also somewhat inappropriate. Therefore, we believe that the Committee has once again achieved that objective of a better partnership with the solution that financing with a tourist tax, which is not taken into account in the revenue of municipalities that reduce financial compensation, certainly improves the partnership and interest between all tourism operators, even at the local level. This not only achieves a partnership, but also establishes a mechanism by reducing the differences between more developed tourist destinations and those less developed in the field of tourism. This can also be helped by the decision of the Committee, which foresees additional taxation for those who have holiday homes in developed tourist destinations. Because, as a result, it is certain that some owners of such a facility will think that they will either change ownership in this developed tourist area and probably come up with their holiday home in an area that is less touristic, but only suitable and interesting to spend their leisure time. We therefore believe that this could also reduce the differences between developed and less developed areas in the area of tourism. Of course, we expect the proposer to also ensure that societies, mountain and cave societies, in so far as they carry out their basic social activity, are exempted from the licensing process, as these societies have so far made a huge contribution to the conservation of nature [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] After all, many young and old people are also involved in this process, which once again contributes to the partnership. That is why this law, such as that of the Committee, will be complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Franci Rokavec will give the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism is intended to replace the law on the promotion of tourism. We have examined the reasons for the new bill in the SLS Group. In fact, the government first cites a discrepancy between certain articles of the Act on the Promotion of Tourism and the Constitution, which has already been decided by the Constitutional Court. Furthermore, the reason for the proposed legislation, in accordance with the directives of the European Union, the weaknesses and shortcomings of the tourism law in practice. In the parliamentary group, we stress the harmonisation of the law with the legal order of the European Union and adaptation in accordance with the free movement of persons. One of the rules of the internal market of the European Union-free movement of goods, persons, capital and services. The new bill is intended to lay the legal basis for the country's action in the area of promoting tourism development and also to follow the current Slovenian tourism guidelines set out in the Slovenian Tourism Strategy in 2002 and 2006. The applicant repeatedly mentions that the concept of Slovenian tourism should be based on the concept of establishing a partnership, public and private sector and civil society in the planning, design and marketing of Slovenian tourist offer. The theory of the concept seems good to us. We believe that emphasis should be placed on the aspect of so-called civil society, that the population should be actively involved in tourism activities, encourage their involvement in rural tourism development, in villages - in short, in their living environment. The law refers to a tourist area which is generally wider than that of one municipality, with the aim of motivating municipalities to connect in the area of tourism in a sufficiently large tourist area, which can offer a comprehensive tourist offer interesting for tourists, and on the other hand that this area provides sufficient funding to finance the development of tourism. The organisation shall be left to municipalities and tourist operators, private and public, in a particular tourist area. In the SLS Group, we agree with the proposaler's conclusion that the current law on the promotion of tourism has failed to ensure sufficient effective integration and participation of municipalities in the development of a common development policy in the wider single area. In addition, we support the competitiveness of tourism, which is to be achieved by harmonising the conditions for the organisation and sale of tourist arrangements, tourism management and monitoring and the activities of tourist sports services carried out as a gainful activity under the conditions of the internal market of the European Union. The law sets out dedicated resources to finance the promotion of tourism. The tourist tax and the concessions for gambling intended for this part are particularly exposed. The law also directs municipalities to promote the development of tourism also through other means of the municipal budget. Special chapter is tourist tax. The way it's picked up and her height. To a large extent, the regulation of the current law on the promotion of tourism is summarised, and changes are only in the area of the definition of the exemption from tourist tax. This law provides the basis for the establishment and operation of the Slovenian tourism organisation. The arrangement is very similar to the one already in existence. There are also opportunities for other legal persons who have a certain interest in promoting the development of tourism, either at national level or at the level of tourist areas, to be included in the implementation of the tourism policy at country level, which we also think is positive. When we talk about tourism, we must also have in mind the aspect of representing Slovenia abroad. Presentation of our culture, people, quality and way of life of our citizens and citizens. Promoting the development of tourism in the European Union has not yet been regulated legally. We will make sure that the law is European-oriented, in the sense that it will be open to attracting or opening up opportunities to draw on possible European funds in this area. Following these facts, we will also support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Sonja Areh Lavrič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u152	Mr President, Minister-designate, co-worker, honourable Members. Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we support a single law that comprehensively regulates the field of tourism. We estimate that, despite some guesses and concerns, it is possible to settle matters under certain other laws, such as the Social Act, the Community Financing Act, the Bond Act. It is precisely the area of tourism that Slovenia must build on because of its role in the future. The law follows a government strategy to promote the development of tourism. For the period 2002-2006, it is essentially the legal basis for the operation of the country in the field of promoting the development of tourism. On the other hand, this law also defines the basic documents adopted by the government to promote the development of tourism as a tourism strategy and then an implementing annual tourism policy. The fact is that tourism is a kind of movement that changes or adapts to time, time and needs, at least so should be if we want to move in with developed European countries. Regrettably, despite the efforts of the government and many stakeholders in this area, Slovenian tourism is only difficult to follow in the developed countries, which is also reflected in the lack of exploitation of the specific and uneven development of individual regions. We're afraid the law we're adopting won't make a major move. What we miss in the Slovenian National Party Group is a more specific definition of the role and tasks of local communities and the active role of the Ministry of Economy in promoting the opening of new tourist opportunities or products. In this respect, we are also somewhat skeptical about the definition of the acquisition of funds based on the status of operation in the public interest. I am also afraid that, as long as the dilemma of adopting a tourism strategy for the coming years remains only in the government domain, the National Assembly will completely lose control of this area. Any flooding about the supervisory function of the National Assembly in government work is, hand to heart, sand in the eyes of the naive. Like I said. In the SNS Group, despite some concerns, we are positively defined by the law that will regulate tourism in the Republic of Slovenia in a comprehensive manner, in particular due to the need for strategic planning and systematic implementation of policies to promote the development of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Also the position of the LDS and Dusan Vukko Club, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you for your words, President, and distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Minister and Undersecretary of State. Allow me to present the position of the LDS Club. The LDS Club supports the proposal of the law. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that a change of law was necessary and that it is right that the law is based on the new paradigm of tourism, which is enshrined in the tourism strategy. In particular, in the LDS, we support the fact that the law clearly sets out the partnership between all those working at local level in the field of tourism, and in this regard clearly proves that the previous law has proved to be ineffective in this part and that there is nothing to be done in the long term through forced association. At the LLDS, we believe that the interests of those who will connect and unite all those who want to assist at the local level in the development of tourism faster. According to our assessment, the law provides, in an appropriate way, for planning the development of tourism, as well as for policy-making, and for what is particularly important, measures and activities of tourism policy. The law itself experienced a broad debate before it came to the National Assembly among the tourism actors themselves. Our assessment is that the proposaler has come to a solution with persistent and long-suffering coordination so that today we can find that almost everyone is satisfied with it. We are pleased in the Member Club that the Committee, only the mother labour force, has also adopted the amendment proposal, which stipulates that the tourist tax resources are not included in the financial compensation, because in this way only what is definitively achieved in the government's strategy is that the tourist tax is one of the earmarked funds invested in the development of tourism. We also support solutions relating to the amendment of the provisions defining the tourist tax, including provisions allowing municipalities to impose the obligation to pay the tourist tax for accommodation in tourist and recreational facilities and so-called holiday homes and holiday homes. Part of the parliamentary group doubts the appropriateness of the solution in such a way that municipalities are given the opportunity, in particular the coastal municipalities, to determine by decree the method of payment in flat-rate amounts for shipowners. It should be pointed out, however, that even now these coastal congregations have decrees regulating the area in a manner that they have considered appropriate. We think it is extremely important that a provision given under an anti-biocratic programme be made. The point is that we have finally combined two records with this law, namely, the records, the residence registration law and the tourist tax law, or the promotion of tourism, or this new law. In the past, this has proved to be too much administrative and burdensome for all those involved in the provision of these services. The municipalities will also be able to establish inspections in this law, as they are interested in the fact that the tourist tax is taxed in a manner and within the time limits laid down by this law. In the LDS Parliamentary Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. This debate will be held on the basis of an amendment review of 15.12.2003. To review the amendments you have an amendment to Article 5 and an amendment to Article 25. I am opening the debate on Article 5 and the amendment tabled by the Nova Slovenija Group. The word wants mag. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Our amendment states that Article 5 would be amended by adopting the strategy by adopting the National Assembly on a proposal from the government after a public debate with all partners planning the development of Slovenian tourism. In the words, the presentations of the parliamentary groups, and in particular the presentation of an additional explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the partnership was mentioned no more than once. Therefore, if we seriously stick to this, then the most important one, which would commit the country to the serious development of tourism in Slovenia, should be recorded as such. With all partners planning the development of Slovenian tourism. So that, on this basis, we also come up with such a strategy that, as I said in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group, it will not be central documents that will come from the top down and that key partners of strategic tourism planning will not be taken into account. So that's the key thing, and that's why we tabled an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with co-workers! It appears that in each mandate we are adopting amendments or a law on the promotion of tourism. I vividly recall these debates and also the promise that we are adopting a good law. Apparently, the marriage wasn't that good. Many things have been accomplished in a short period of time, and today we have before us a new law that is spoken of with bombastic words. I've heard about the new paradigm of the tourism strategy several times. These expressions, which are more used in philosophical language, are now used here and I think they are trying to cover up failure or either [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u159	Dear colleague Jožef Jerovšek, an amendment to Article 5 is tabled: "The strategy is adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following a public debate with all partners of the planned development of Slovenian tourism." That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u160	Mr. Vice President, you are insultingly underestimating my ability to overestimate that I know what I'm talking about. This is exactly what I want to talk about, because the models within the Ministry - I think even in the same personal composition - have been presented, although high-flying words are used, and at the same time do not give the effect that was promised. For this reason, I am aware that in another country it may not be necessary for this strategy to be adopted in a national assembly, in Parliament. With us, I hope that Parliament is the only intersection of interests and control functions, as well as national interests. Regrettably, the other institutions, which would have been so much a cross-section of all these interests, are not in this country, so I support this amendment. But I've already said that I'm afraid that this marriage is also part of this Cardelian syndrome that crawls around here every three years, every four years, you change something and you promise everything will change. I hope that this matter is more thoughtful, that it is not just the last thing the Minister put in public hearing and acceptance before leaving for The Hague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you. My friend Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u162	It is clear that this amendment is at the level of the basic article and the situation in this area, as well as the ambitions of the government. In short, it does not matter what happens, but what will be written in the documents and who will accept it. It doesn't matter whether it's accepted by the National Assembly, whether it's accepted by the government, or by the Ministry, or whether the last official at the Ministry of the Economy would accept it. In fact, it is simply that in this country, with strong strategies written for rich money - we have only strategies for domestic experts and foreign experts involved. Today, go and make any investments in any area of Slovenia and you will see that we have a huge strategy. But when you have to approach turning ten acres of bad land into walled land, you will find - and of course the plan act will define this - you will find that agriculture does not give consent; that if it does, then the farm fund will not sell it otherwise than for gold and, of course, that procedures then take a long, long time. And then when you get there, you find that, of course, the municipalities only want to have a tourist tax on this, that they want the country to have VAT and all the other things that are there. What remains for those who want to develop this tourism? Nothing. Nothing! And strategies, see what it says: "The strategy defines an analysis of the state of tourism trends, competitive advantages, vision, strategic objectives and basic areas of tourism development, the role of the state, municipalities of tourism service providers and tourism associations and their associations in achieving the common strategic objectives and the basic policies and measures of the Government of Slovenia to promote the development of tourism during the planned period." One sentence where everything that can be written in a linguistic sense is shot. Catastrophe! And let this be accepted by the national assembly, government or anyone else, there will be nothing in this sentence and in this article. Make sure there's nothing going to be! And so please don't stop at the amendment. I do not support the amendment, of course, because I do not support it, because I would not like to see that we face such discussions in Parliament next year. For if we are in Parliament, for this amendment speaks of the fact that what it says should be confirmed by Parliament. Please! I don't feel like I can get a strategy based on this phrase in the National Assembly. I understand that the strategy must mean that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow someone or a domestic or foreign investor will come and say, "I would like to do this and that and that in medical tourism. Tell me what I have to do." They will say, "Go read the strategy in Article 5 and you will be able to establish on this basis." And they'll say, "Then go to Article 7 and go." It doesn't matter who accepts it - the National Assembly, the government. I think the government must accept this, definitely, but because the situation is too complicated for us to believe. In this year, I have encountered some cases, some cases, and I have asked for concrete measures. It was nothing. Madam Secretary of State knows this, and someone else knows it - nothing! Still nothing. Not to speak of specific matters, of course, because we are talking about a strategy, but I think we need to make arrangements in the country by making fearsome, who is planning, who is taking measures, who is responsible, but not - because, in the case of a state assembly adopting a strategy, everyone is citing, this was adopted by the national assembly. And of course, if nothing concrete happens or cannot happen, it is the national assembly that is to blame. And I don't want that. Let the government take this, let those responsible take it, and, of course, let all the measures that are still a little more operationalised are also feasible. That's why, of course, I won't support this amendment, because it blurs more. Unfortunately, I know that the proponents didn't want this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. By order of the applicants. Master Andrej Vizjak has the floor, then Branko Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u164	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, the essence of my debate has already been taken over by my predecessor, but this is exactly what I wanted to justify that it is very important, who accepts it and where the debate is taking place, including what it says will be covered by the strategy; that is to say, the implementation of this strategy. Because this is also supposed to be part of the strategy. That is why I think it is right that the discussion on these topics, as well as the discussion on topics, is about the government's actions in Parliament, not in the government. How should the government determine its own actions? This will be very painful measures, I think, because, of course, they will be very closely linked to modest means if the government assigns these things to itself. And I think it is right that we define the strategy of Slovenian tourism and define it in this house on a proposal from the government, of course. In fact, I fully agree that the autonomy of the authorities of those who have adopted a variety of strategies and their majority in this House is the result of - and of course the inefficiency of these strategies and the non-implementation of these strategies - this is the responsibility, in my opinion, of the executive branch of power. That is why I also support the full thinking of the leader of the Liberal Democracy Group, who highlighted this key issue of strategies and, of course, the implementation of these strategies. Look, we have a whole bunch of cross-interests in an environment where we have developed tourism. I also come from a municipality where, in fact, we do not have some optimal development of tourism due to the failure to implement the strategy and to draw all tourist operators together. In fact, the problem is in not achieving some very well-written objectives, measures and everything, which ultimately does not experience implementation. And this amendment goes in the direction of adding something to this strategy, or every time the strategy is adopted, to the discussion, and also to each of the Members of the opposition's positions, complementing it in one way or another. And I think that this is a step forward towards this concern, to implement the strategy, and not least then to take some measures and tasks for the government to do so. That is why, of course, I will support this amendment, not to complicate the matter of burdening Members here, but to make it possible, from a beautiful sounding desire, goals or from a well-written strategy, also in life, to carry out something that has actually been achieved and then for a longer time where tourism is developed or that we will begin to develop it where it is not at all. Because I think it is one of Slovenia's exceptional opportunities in the economic field, that this is our, I would say, a sector of the future, one of the few where we can show what we know, what we have, and of course we all connect together. Unfortunately, I do have to find that today tourism is made by legal persons, tourism giants, who are squandering for profit and who care very little about some of Slovenia's broader objectives in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! I might be looking at this a little differently. Personally, because I know the process of adopting different strategies in this country and the system of action and so on, I do not really care who accepts this strategy or even prefers it to be accepted by the government, because if it is accepted by the State Assembly, it is even more responsible and responsible for not having the strategy implemented - because, in any case, it is the responsibility of the State Assembly at its final stage, but nevertheless I prefer to see that the government is actually adopted. This responsibility is somewhat less because no one ever asks whether the opposition Member voted in favour or not, but only the National Assembly has adopted something. But it is definitely not the government's fault or the ministry's fault, for example, if it has a poor secretary or a poor minister or a minister in its department - I apologize, I say in general - it is not the Ministry's fault, nor is it the government's fault if it has a bad Prime Minister, the Secretary-General and so on. It's not the government's fault. It's Parliament's fault. Parliament is to blame if we have a bad minister, if we have a bad secretary, if we have a bad Prime Minister, if we have everything bad, it is Parliament's fault. It's all Parliament's fault. And it's really Parliament's fault. It's your fault that you tolerate all of this and you confirm all of this and you accept thousands of strategies, you understand, from national programmes and so on, which are not being implemented. Thank you, colleague Anderlich, for saying what's actually true. Now, how's that supposed to be handled? I told you before, but I didn't have much time. In fact, it should be arranged as I have indicated - at the local, municipal level, at the regional level, even if you want to, urgently produce a good programme, which should be financed from the state budget, because the municipalities do not want to give money for this. They won't give! They simply don't want to give, but if they did, maybe they would give in some small share, but someone else would; mostly they should be financed by the state level, a good program. A good program, you know what it contains - first an analysis of the situation in some area, then available resources, from all natural activities, existing facilities, destinations, such and different personnel, all of this - what I will explain to you, because you are smarter than I am, because you went to school and I didn't. Anyway, we know what a good program contains. So, this good programme should be done, and then, based on the existing situation, it should be determined what should be added to the minimum costs, in order for an environment like this to have a completed tourist offer, a destination that could also be complemented by neighbouring municipalities, regions and so on; in short, a good programme. Then make a dynamic implementation of this programme, providing funds, with different partners - a hundred if you want to, you could include them and so on. But people should see themselves in this and people should also see some effects in this area. What you're doing right now is all one big laugh. What helps you if you are out there in some hills, for example - I will say it in my mind right now, but this is happening - a tourist farm, we guarantee, we make apartments and I don't know what else if there is no comprehensive offer! Well, we can make it there so that, I don't know, someone has a couple of suites or a few rooms and so on and so forth, maybe two, three kilometers away from living souls. Well, that suits someone, for one day, for two days maybe, but it has to be a comprehensive offer. I'll give you one example. I know the case of Catež, for example, who has some big perspective or some business circle that's quite, at least it shows so, successfully. This Citadel is so closed, it likes itself that it doesn't want to open itself up to, say, offer. And all that's going on is that he wants to suck on these tourists in his circle, but don't let him offer these tourists money, and I'd say, yeah, you go to the Sevnica Congregation, there's a good castle, and you'll look at it. And go over there and look at these sights. Or, say, what do I know, once in the spring, in the summer, in May or when it's, say, under Lipico somewhere, the enzyme blooms wonderfully. That would be a wonderful addition to a program. He will not do this, because he is not stupid, because he wants to draw from his people, to strip them to the place. Besides, I'm not talking about the prices we have. Look at your offers now, you can go to Turkey to a four-star hotel, plus categories for 50,000 with a plane, etc. In short, this is all we do, and besides, we don't have a stimulating tax policy, so please provide money, and a little knowledge, and these things will be settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I would ask you again, let us discuss the proposed amendment. No, the last discussion about what the Turks have, I really don't care. Whether the National Assembly will adopt a strategy or just a government, because that is the subject of this amendment. Please, let's stay with what you've suggested. Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much for your word. However, Mr President, Article 5 is so broad, it speaks of a strategy, so that this debate can also be extended slightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u169	There is only one small amendment to Article 5. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u170	So, we are discussing the amendment and Article 5. I think the essence of this amendment has been very well explained by my colleague Vizjak, and it would really be right if this National Assembly spoke about the strategy for the development of Slovenian tourism. If we all find together that things in this area do not work out as planned. Today to talk about some new paradigm and already know in advance that, of course, the law as such will bring nothing, is really pointless doing and to ourselves, I don't know, we close our eyes and make some illusions, how we will now develop in the future. I am very sorry that this issue has not been addressed more seriously under the Committee on Tourism. Indeed, I can see from the report that this law is relatively short and has been dealt with quickly and you have written down something that is unacceptable in this Article 5 and this amendment. You say, tourism policy is changing over the year and the strategy itself should be adapted - whether the world is wrong. The strategy from 2004 to 2006 cannot change during the year, the strategy must remain as a strategy, but the current policy must change according to the strategy adopted. It was therefore also the intention of the proposer to adopt such a long-term strategy as a strategy for 5 years of development, of course, primarily accompanied by financial resources, that Parliament should talk about this and that such a strategy should also be adopted by Parliament and that is indeed what some of you have been talking about. Today someone wants to open up, develop a tourist farm. Then it finds that, on the basis of the legislation adopted by this National Assembly, of course, it needs to do its work, I don't know, I'm going to say a little caricature, 15 different consents. When he gets 15 of them together, he still finds out he's still missing two. When that 2 gets it, then he meets the fact that he can't get to the financial means by which he can actually start his activity. Of course, we are Members from all over the country. From different angles, we, as Members, could discuss this strategy. For I have no idea what a single strategy in the field of tourism should be for the whole of Slovenia, because what is important for Portorož or Bled is not present for the area of Haloz or the Slovenian Mountains. However, we want tourism to develop there as well. It is said that we would have one strategy, which would actually represent a tourist opportunity and development for the whole of Slovenia, but not that today tourism is actually in this country, Bled, Portorož, but a little bit more. Most of the rest of Slovenia, however, is somehow neglected through these administrative measures and particularly through financial incentives and in another plan. If the National Assembly were to adopt a strategy in this area and not only be familiar with this strategy, because there is something that the National Assembly will know, but something that if the government prepares and the National Assembly accepts, then I am sure that the areas from which we come from the peripheral part of Slovenia would be more interesting in a tourist sense, because people are willing to do something in this tourist area. And it might also be easier to tell Minister Kebra that such adventurous laws as he has proposed and adopted Parliament are also anti-tourist advertisements for the tourist development of these places. In fact, they don't bring what he advocated. We should, and I would be very happy if Parliament were to be aware of its functions and determine - the strategy is already adopted by 2006 - but to continue to talk about this here in this space, and when we adopt this strategy, we are also analysing the reasons why a strategy, long-termly conceived, is not being implemented as it was intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the floor. And then there's Ferry Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u172	I am even more resolutely opposed to this amendment, even for the following reasons. Because this amendment, in particular Article 5, gives the illusion to future tourism development planners that Slovenia will make a strategy and that, on the basis of this strategy, it can have better time for tourism. A completely unfounded thesis and a flawed article! There will never be any strategy, for from the point of view of further articles, if you say: the strategy must define which areas will be tourism-exploited, who will finance what the municipalities will really do. What you're saying is, they're going to give something away from the tourist tax, and they're going to give something away from the concessions, etc., there's no special topic. I do not polymise with the government, although in my opinion the law is polymising with an amendment. [[...]] Because you want to prove that you have to get this out of the National Assembly. Being sad and disappointed with the law is another question. So far, I'm really going to tell you some concrete cases. Go straight to the border, and you will find that the congregations, the states, are giving the paperwork very quickly, is a marginal issue. That the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, quickly align the conditions for some tourism to develop. The fact that we have in Slovenia, for example, an agricultural area in the warm water garden and we could develop a first-class spa there and that you cannot coordinate after five years to make things wally for tourist purposes - this is a strategy. Of course, concrete measures are based on a strategy that we will develop thermal tourism or what it is already called. But we will develop it in a way that will ensure that everyone responsible will prepare the condition that the papers can be arranged. That the local community should say, as they say, in fürstenfeld over the border, as they say in Hungary, as they say elsewhere: we as a local community are interested in developing tourism in our congregation, so we will give up the municipal contribution, so we will lead - I don't know, the road to it, etc., along with the country that will allow it earlier. And why should we adopt this strategy, which must determine these certain matters, into the National Assembly? Because he doesn't have these potentials. Let the government do it, let the ministries do it, let those who really do it do it. And I object to the amendment to Article 5 for these reasons, because I fear that if it is written that the National Assembly will accept it, some will promise that they will ever expect anything from it, and this is wrong, and there can never be anything out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. First, once again, the chairman of the committee, Ferry Horvat, is now discussing as a member. Then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. I oppose the adoption of this amendment for basically systemic reasons and for practical reasons. First of all, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not provide for the adoption of strategies at all. That's one. Secondly, all policies are adopted by the government, so we have a system. Economic development strategy, as a umbrella strategy and as well as sectoral strategies. What you are advocating is that some of your colleagues who are advocating the amendment that this is not going through the National Assembly - but I very much agree with that. This is why this is also taken into account in the amendments to Article 5, including on the basis of your amendment, which has already been originally tabled twice; once, when we say that the government cannot adopt this strategy without informing the State Assembly before the final adoption. This gives the National Assembly the opportunity to consider it in order to define it for it to adopt its opinion. And at another point, where we say he has to work with these partners first, which you are advocating in your amendment. This is covered and this amendment is not necessary. And for a practical reason, I agree with my colleague Anderlich that if the government adopts the strategy, it also assumes greater responsibility for its implementation, because it also has the greatest impact on implementation. To a large extent, you have scissors and canvas: laws propose systemic solutions, regulations adopted by the government, and this refers to permission, which you are talking about hindering the development of tourism, and which I agree with; and finally, the budget is proposed by the government, and it is accepted by the National Assembly. It sets out the means to implement the strategy. The National Assembly does accept national programmes, but let us remember whether we have forgotten that there are a lot of optimism and joy here, and then we are dissatisfied because they are not realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u175	Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I'd like to give an opinion on this amendment. We do not support this amendment because we advocate the principle of rolling planning and the preparation of tourism policy, so that, of course, it can respond quickly to changes in the environment. The law also proposes that the strategy be adopted by the government after a public debate with all partners in planning the development of Slovenian tourism, because it is not only the Ministry of Economy but also certain government departments; but for all partners, of course, the government strategy is then introduced to the National Assembly. Well, since there has been a lot of talk about the strategy, I must say that we are actually adopting a law on acceleration today, which, of course, is linked then to, because we are probably not going to specify all the details in the law, but then there are implementing acts and so is the strategy. The Slovenian Development Strategy, which was adopted last year, has emerged, once again, in a truly partnership process, with all the actors: from municipalities that have been repeatedly warned that they should participate in the preparation of such a strategy, and then to various societies, to the carriers of the tourist offer and so on. The strategy that has been adopted is not paper, as some of you want to show here, I must absolutely challenge it. Because, on the basis of this strategy, a policy for 2003 has been adopted and it has also started very much - to the satisfaction of, I must say, perhaps not Members, but the satisfaction of tourism actors - I should also implement. To mention only some of the most important achievements of this policy, which has begun to be implemented, these are: we have ensured that 8 billion structural funds - pardons, structural funds - will be earmarked for the development of tourism. As an important priority for the development of Slovenia and a priority area for the absorption of structural funds based on a single programming document, we have managed to ensure that this is tourism, with funds that are a significant part of the cake in terms of the remaining funds. Just as much as we can count from all the resources. We also supported 38 projects for the preparation of spatial implementing acts. We agree that there is a major problem here, so we have also responded with our policy and also with the resources we have at our disposal to help eliminate one of the main critical points for launching and implementing the investment cycle. So we are already doing this on the basis of the strategy adopted and in this implemented tourism policy for 2003. We also have a new Slovenian tourist portal, which can be compared to those in developed countries. When we ask ourselves where and who from abroad wants information in tourism - it is available. We also started introducing satellite accounts and so on. I'd still like to mention it. I wouldn't burden you, but there was a lot of written, much discussed. At the Ministry of the Economy, we also have a tourism council where more important actors are once again from providers, that is to say, from organisations there to societies, and other actors are sitting and discussing and trying together to draw up such a policy that, of course, could help. But it is, and here I agree with someone who has already mentioned - I think it was Mr Petty Officer - who said that there is a need to change the mindset in the head and that this cannot be done with the law. However, the law, unfortunately, does not have this intention, the law has the intention to somehow prepare the environment as encouraging as possible for the development of tourism. These are modern laws in all countries, and I think that by these criteria we can compare ourselves with one modern developed country. And the answer to Mr. Kelemini. The previous Act on the Promotion of Tourism has not been adopted by this government, nor by the Ministry since I am Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you. We have three other debaters on the list, Josef Jerovšek as the first, Dušan Vukko, Janez Drobnic. You have the floor, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much, again. In spite of this debate, there is something interesting, something that I think is useful, if not for the development of tourism itself, which is likely not to make a significant contribution to today's debate alone, but at least some things are being cleaned up here. I agree with some that we will not achieve anything with the strategy alone. But I do not agree with Mr Anderlich that no strategy will ever bring anything. The strategy is also a second word for politics. And I agree with the fact that the current government has no general strategy, does not lead any consistent policy - I agree with this, but I do need to have it - and also in the field of tourism this strategy. But I also heard a new one - although after a few years, what is the principle of this economic ministry - is the principle of rolling planning. Madam Minister, for the first time, explained this to us, although I think we are, given that Anderlič also says that there is no strategy, we often witness not the drudgery of planning, but the drooping of planning. And look, Mr Anderlich is these things that he took here, what the strategy says -- it's actually some sort of Latvian thing. In fact, it is Latvian and hospitality, the whole marriage is too hospitable, the whole marriage is too hospitable and I agree that such hospitality does not belong to Parliament. However, that Parliament is still the best filter to ensure that this hospitality does not go on a variety of levels, and I agree with that, and that is why I am in favour of bringing it, if Mr Horvat says that it must not be a strategy, then in our house we are adopting a resolution. We are even adopting a resolution on the strategy of something, what I know, foreign policies and such - and we are not in the government. Your ministers bring such matters to this national council. Now, as it is said, Mr Anderlich was the most critical. I think it's justified, but I was scared at first, because I finally mentioned that Madam Minister gave it away before going to The Hague, that he misunderstood that he had become so angry with the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Dusan Wolf has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you, President, for your word. Now, first of all, the definition of the amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members is that I will not accept this amendment for the reasons already stated today, in particular those referred to by the chairman of the Committee, Comrade Feri Horvat. In many ways, however, I agree with Mr Anderlic, a fellow Member, who spoke about creating conditions for the development of tourism, creating a favourable environment, removing administrative barriers. Of course, already on the subcommittee, when we considered this bill as a working group, I have expressed my own strong criticism or my belief that in the past this country has not taken tourism seriously as one of the economic sectors. I have been in this House for three years, and I would expect all of us to be so eager to discuss the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. When we talk about our neighbouring countries and regions, we can see that the country there is giving the region much more tourism. I hope that this law, whose ambitions may be somewhat smaller, because it is not possible to do everything we have warned about - and it is true - to remove administrative obstacles, coordination, as far as building land, building and so on. That's not something you can handle with this law. At least I don't think so. I hope this marriage will be a first step towards thinking that if you don't put something in tourism, you won't get it back. And to build tourism on the submenu, that in the final stage it will be created only by the state, developed by the congregation, then missed. It must be developed by interests, namely economic interests. Without that - of course I agree, colleague Anderlich, of course I agree. We have certain bad assumptions, but these assumptions cannot be eliminated in this law. They can't, I think. Strategy - strategy must be. However, the strategy as such, whether this strategy will be implemented, for God's sake, does not depend solely on the Minister, the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State, the mayor of the municipality! In particular, it depends on everyone involved in this process. And lastly, she's the most interested in me. How much we leave this interest to be expressed, however, is of course another question. I wouldn't open up here, we have different areas, we have different areas where something can't be done. And I will be very happy when the next budget, if I continue to be in this assembly, I will make just one amendment for about a billion tolars and say: let's finally put one billion into the cableway infrastructure to get closer to the European Community, and we will see how the debate will proceed and whether the government and this national assembly with all the parliamentary groups at the forefront will show our readiness to support the development of tourism by doing so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. And Master Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. They'll talk to each other later. I agree with the need to have a strategy, and I support the government there. So, too, what Mr. Wolf was talking about is true. Without a strategy at least in the development of tourism in Slovenia, of course, we will not go far. The question is, of course, what is this strategy? This can be discussed. What elements this strategy should all contain is indicated here. Not so much, whether we've really defined all these elements or not, exactly. But they are instruments that enable. With regard to the sliding strategy - of course, the strategy can also be as slippery as planning the sliding, but if it is too slippery, it slips you. Just as a sliding course can slip into the maloro. If you want to have a sliding strategy - you can. Every year we have a report on the implementation of the strategy, and we can put a change in the process - is that right? We do it every year. However, if there are good results or if you are disobeyed in the field, you do not have the strength to do so, then you will come to the National Assembly for a term of office. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but it's an open road for that. Why do I stress, however, that the National Assembly is supposed to meet this at least once a year? Because this area has been neglected, apparently for a long time, some people have been pampered and dressed for years. And in this I support you to have a different mindset, a different thought. And it is right that those who have really pampered and dressed for a long time will be driven away because they have done nothing useful, and that you enter the freedom of the spirit, the entrepreneurship and this partnership. There's nothing to add to that. Now, if the government writes a strategy, it accepts it and controls it. I don't know if this is going to go well. If you want better results, it is also good to have this back control, because otherwise you have the same principle as in the previous system - that the same authorities that have accepted, then also evaluated, evaluated, that was self-evaluation and so on. If we met once a year with the development of tourism, it would be good to meet in this national assembly because of poor development. When tourism is at a level such as that of neighbouring countries, for example, in Austria, and because of me, the government can do this strategy, because it will obviously not have to work, it will come to our minds that the matter will be normalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. May I discuss Article 5 and the amendment? I guess I can. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment tabled. We are moving on to Article 25 and the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want a word? Almost both at the same time, mag. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Just a quick explanation. It's about paying this tourist tax. This amendment is intended to reduce the rate for children up to the age of 26 if they are in school, of course. We believe that this amendment is appropriate and that this is a suitable approach to young people who do not have money, depending on their parents, also on the country, while also promoting tourism, making tourism, bringing in a new spirit. I think this is a fitting gesture; this will not result in the collapse of the financial balance of the budget or of tourist organisations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Aloys Sok. He's quitting. They must have the same purpose for the debate. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I don't see anyone wanting to discuss it. I also conclude the debate on Article 25 and the amendment tabled to Article 25. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 19.55 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. At 4:55 p.m., we'll move on to agenda item 7 and we'll take a break for that time. Thank you all for your cooperation: Ministers, Secretary of State and Undersecretaries of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u186	Dear Members, honourable Members, Madam Minister, Secretary of State! Good-bye, everybody! We're moving to DEBT 7. Agenda items - Secondly, the proposal for a law on the protection and financing of international economic affairs. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Madam Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u187	Dear Members and Members, Madam President! For Slovenia as a highly small country, of course, exports are a relatively more important category for its entire economy than in the case of a large country for which the domestic market is relatively significantly more important. The small country itself, because of its greater dependence on exports, is relatively more exposed to the risks arising from the international environment and must therefore pay more attention to the management of such risks. Virtually all industrially developed countries and more developed developing countries and transition countries have in the past highlighted an institutional mechanism designed to support exports. Although the institutions formed for this purpose differ significantly from one another, their common character is that some of the risks of this institution are taken on their own behalf and for their own account, while others, on behalf of or on behalf of the State of risk taken on behalf of the State of the country, of course, represent a potential obligation of the State and thus its potential budgetary expenditure or public debt. The proposal for a law on the protection and financing of international economic transactions is part of the national legislation which must be adapted before the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Slovenia by its rules or 'acquis communitaire'. The proposed law regulates the insurance and financing of international economic transactions in the Republic of Slovenia, one of the important trade policy instruments by which the country provides competitive conditions for Slovenian companies in foreign markets. At the same time, it should be stressed that this is not about introducing a new instrument, but about regulating the system in a European comparable way. The insurance and financing of international economic transactions has been carried out by a Slovenian exporting company in the last 10 years for the country's account. However, since the Slovenian exporting company is also carrying out other operations in its own name and on its own account under the current SIDU law in addition to the State Account Insurance and Export Financing Transactions, it was also necessary to separate those two activities in accordance with European Union rules and to regulate the State Account and Export Financing in a specific law. This law, honourable Members and Members, is before you today. In addition to EU rules, the regulation of this area in the Member States of the European Union has also been taken into account in the drafting of the law. The proposed law regulates insurance - to secure international economic transactions against non-performing non-commercial risks and to finance international economic transactions by means of the credits paid for by the State guarantees and the implementation of the interest compensation programme. After the insurance of international economic transactions and the implementation of the interest compensation programme under the proposal of the law on behalf of and on behalf of the State, an authorised financial institution shall implement the required criteria and shall be selected in a public tender. The Ministry of Finance shall conclude a contract with the selected institution on the implementation of these transactions and shall establish a more detailed arrangement between the two. An authorised institution shall carry out operations under this law separately from its other business. The State shall provide the means to carry out the activities effectively, through the creation of security and specific security reserves managed by the authorised institution. These security reserves are also formed from paid premiums, regressions and other income from insurance transactions. Security reserves shall be used to settle liabilities to insurers and to pay the costs of the authorised institution to carry out business under this law. With a view to the effective functioning of the system of insurance and to ensuring compliance with the obligations of the State under this insurance, the law sets an upper limit for insurance and, in addition, the annual law on the implementation of the budget sets annual limits for insurance and the amount of credits and securities issued by the State to which the guarantee is to be issued. The law also regulates its implementation. The Bank of Slovenia shall supervise the implementation of the law in its work relating to the insurance of international economic transactions by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Slovenia in its work relating to the financing of international economic transactions. It is important to ensure the synergies of policies and decisions affecting this system in order to ensure the effective functioning of the system of insurance and financing for international economic transactions. This role is played by the Commission to facilitate international exchange, with the law clearly delimiting the role and powers of the Commission on the one hand and the authorised investments on the other. The law allows a gradual transition from the current system to a new system of insurance and financing international economic transactions Thus, the transactions under this law will continue to be carried out by the Slovenian exporting company during the transitional period. At that time, however, it must comply with its status and activities which are not subject to the regulation of this law with the banking rules on the one hand and the insurance rules on the other. When a competition for the selection of an authorised institution under this law is launched, it will be able to compete for the acquisition of a mandate. From the point of view of legal certainty for the Slovenian export economy, it should be said that the guarantees or legal guarantees and guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia for the Slovenian export company are valid until the obligations for which they were granted expire. Since this law regulates the system of insurance and financing for international economic transactions provided by the State, apart from the rest of the business of the Slovenian exporting company, the law will also have no financial implications for the budget. In fact, security and special security reserves created under the current Slovenian Export Company Act will be transformed into security reserves under this new law. Until now, the regression of interest rates on export credits, the current interest compensation programme, will be transformed into PIO under this Act. The proposal for a law on the insurance and financing of international economic affairs was given a broader debate in the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, in which Members of the Council showed great interest in the future development of an international economic insurance and financing system. On the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service and the proposals made by members of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted amendments which are included in the amended bill and contribute to greater clarity of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you adopt the law after final consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Ferri Horvat, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, colleague and colleague. As a parent working body at the 43rd meeting, the Committee considered the draft law, before you you have a report on this treatment, on behalf of the proposer, that is, the governments, representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Bank of Slovenia and the Slovenian Export Company. In addition to presenting the draft law, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, the proposals for amendments to the Bank of Slovenia, the amendments by the MEP, Dr Andrej Bajuk, and the proposals for amendments to the Committee which, on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, prepared the Committee's expert services, in cooperation with the proposers, of course. The report contains an overview of the amendments adopted, and I will not read them because you have them in the report, a large part of them being legal and technical in relation to the comments of the legislative and legal services. I would mention two amendments, namely the amendment to the new Article 14a on the Government's reporting on the implementation of this Act. This amendment was adopted on the basis of a proposal made by Dr Bayuk, and we are with him, I think, what we agreed unanimously. The second amendment to Article 16, which deals more precisely with the harmonisation of the operations of the Slovenian exporting company in the field of activities not covered by this Act and the role of the Bank of Slovenia in these transactions, in accordance with the Bank of Slovenia Act on Banking and, as mentioned by the Minister, in accordance with the Insurance Act when it comes to other transactions. On the basis of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law has been prepared and I propose that we adopt it. The bill does not introduce any revolutionary novelties, and the Committee has also agreed, but means harmonising the system of insurance and financing international economic transactions with the rules of the European Union and other international rules, in particular the OECD rules. In the light of amendments, comments and questions, in particular, fellow Dr. Bajuk and some of the other members of the Committee, the Ministry of the Economy has prepared information on the system, policies and activities in the field of external trade and investment within the agreed period - or I must commend them, within less than four days - and in particular on the activities of the Slovenian exporting company for the period 1998-2002. Members and members of the Committee and all the Members of the Group have received information and would like to recommend that you do not do so to look at or read this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Dr. Andrej Bajuk will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear government representatives, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although this law is a step in the right direction, we cannot support it in Novi Slovenija. But we cannot support him for the reasons that I will now try to present. In fact, the adoption of this law was decided by the Government at its 95th meeting on 4 February 1999, on the basis of what we read in the Government's report, "comparative analyses have been carried out, needs assessments, possibilities and modern trends in the insurance and financing of exports at home and in the world, while foreign experiences have been made creatively to our situation" [[End quote]] . However, despite these fine words of this law, the government did not prepare it in 1999, not even in 2000, 2001, 2002, but only in September 2003. SID acted smoothly, the National Assembly provided new guarantees at the annual ZIPRO, this company developed its services and increased its business in all areas of activity year after year, so today - and I quote this government report - "with its services already covers 13% of all Slovenian exports". So, five years later. For five years, since the Government's decision of 4 February 1999, the National Assembly is finally considering a proposal for a law to systematically regulate this area. Unfortunately, as in many other cases of laws containing systemic solutions, the National Assembly will decide without having the opportunity to review and provide a basis for responsible decision-making on what we should receive. And this is at least the strategy that fucked the basis for the government's decision five years ago, updated appropriately, also on the basis of an updated comparative analysis, the current assessment of the needs of our economy, the realistic assessment of the potential of our public finances - after five years of continuous debt, has changed a lot, hasn't it? - and a sober assessment of the risks inherent in these transactions. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we requested such data; we received some reports from the Ministry of Economy, as already reported by a colleague, the chairman of the committee, but not enough. Why are we worried? We are particularly concerned because, already in 2002, on the basis of data for 2001, the International Monetary Fund has warned the Slovenian Government that the operation in the area of financing international transactions is already above 11% of GDP and is one of the highest levels that can be found in this area. Above all, it is important that in recent years all of this concentrates on these parts or regions of the world, particularly the former Soviet Union, in particular Russia, Ukraine and Belarus and, of course, in the south-eastern countries of Europe. And here I would like to read my own assessment sent to us by the Ministry of Economy to all members of the Committee on the Economy and also to all Members of the Committee on the Economy, quote: "The fact is that the markets of countries in these two regions are very interesting for Slovenian economic operators." "On the other hand, the fact is that they are markets that are quite risky, both in terms of commercial and non-commercial risks. As a result of this assessment, it is realistic to expect at least some of these markets to experience difficulties in servicing obligations abroad in the coming years. It is therefore realistic to expect that, sooner or later, the Slovenian exporting company, similar to the export credit agencies of other countries, will find itself in a situation where entities from certain countries will suspend the repayment of their liabilities to creditors in order to realize the risks that the SID has secured at the expense of the State."the end of the quote. This is our government's assessment, of course we agree with. But we expected that we would have some sort of analysis of all of this, just as it would be appropriate to deal with such matters. That would be the end of it. We are convinced that this is only the first step, the first step inevitably to be taken in this national assembly, on the basis of a decision to which the government has finally agreed, and Members and Members of the great coalition have accepted this. In the law on the implementation of the budget, we will receive at least two years' reports on our country's conditional obligations. And this part - the Slovenian export company is one of the key elements of this. Otherwise, we will vote against it because it is precisely this requirement by the government for Article 16, including through the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia, that by the end of next year the AIDS should align all its activities in this area with the Banking Act, which I have proposed for only 6 months and the government has demanded by the end of 2006, that we have sufficient evidence that things are happening there that cannot yet reach the public as they should be. Especially not until the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Minister! In the Young Slovenia Party, we support the upgrading of the system of insurance and financing for international transactions, especially at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, when the quality of such an instrument of assistance to the Slovenian economy is also directly reflected in the growth of gross social product. The separation of the operation of the Slovenian exporting company into its own account and at the expense of the State is necessary not only because of the European Union's requirements, but also because of the clarity and transparency of the functioning of this institution in the Slovenian space. This division and system-wide arrangement ensures the protection of competition already represented in the SID by other providers of similar services on the market - banks, insurance companies - and which can be expected in a larger number in the future. The law is based on ensuring the competitiveness of Slovenian export companies in European and global markets, in accordance with international rules of the European Union, the World Trade Organisation and the OECD. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support the introduction of new instruments that will have a positive impact on export growth, increase investment and strengthen the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. However, there is a clear financial picture of the current operation of SID, the scope of the guarantees and the assessment of the financial implications of the State budget in the case of the bill. The claim that the proposal does not transfer certain financial obligations from the Republic of Slovenia is unrealistic, both from the point of view of the basic purposes of the law, namely to increase exports, gross social product and thus indirectly the revenue of the State budget, as well as from the position of the black scenario, which may, in the worst possible case, represent the extensive expenditure of the state budget in the enforcement of guarantees. Criticism is not only addressed to the bill-maker, but also to the services of the National Assembly, which deal very selectively and carefully with the proposals of the law of opposition Members, while in government proposals it allows claims that are completely contradicted by the principles and objectives of the law itself. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the draft law in this consideration. However, we expect the proposer to complete the explanation of the bill with the necessary information and financial effects by the next reading, so that Members will have at least a realistic picture of the situation in this area when voting on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u195	Thank you. Your Honor! What is the real truth and the background of all this marriage, we don't really know. This law affects the area of insurance and financing for international economic transactions, which already knows the various instruments by which the state can contribute to the competitiveness of our companies in difficult foreign markets. However, as has already been pointed out, the state can only help, cannot and must not ensure the competitiveness of non-performing companies. Companies are subject to strict competition criteria introduced by market competition. On the other hand, the state is limited that it cannot directly help those companies that fail to provide very high added value with sufficient quality offers. In short, companies that are incapable of dealing with competition. This law creates the feeling that Slovenia is trying to indirectly subsidise non-competitive companies through the side door. Such an approach is long-term, of course, wrong. On the other hand, each country must have its own trade policy instruments. We understand that. The law provides that the government can deal in more detail with specific areas, conditions and policies of insurance and financing for international economic affairs. In view of the possibility that the government has, we rightly expect to use a limited option of impact on trade policy to help companies to export and, on the other hand, to adapt adequately, however, it will maintain a clear criterion for the long-term viability of businesses on the market. [[...]] This is particularly important because the authorised financial institution acts on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Which means, in case of wrong decisions, it directly burdens Slovenian taxpayers, otherwise within the reserved state budget funds. Otherwise, we cannot support the law for the following reasons: the law defines the excessive powers of the government that decide on the guarantee of countries, but now the National Assembly is required to participate in some way in obtaining guarantees, even though I have no insight into specific cases. The IMF has recently been warned that too many guarantees have been made by the State in areas with high risks. The EU Directives clearly stipulate that it is necessary to separate transactions for the account of the State and other transactions. This is not based on this law. In short, we estimate that uncertainty, inadequacy, and also the risks that have occurred in the Eastern markets in recent times, are too much responsibility for our party and too much responsibility for the possible consequences that will arise from this. It is true, though, that successful ones take risks, not at all costs, or prices should not be too high. We hope that the purposes of this law, despite our skepticism, are good and will have a positive impact on our economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Ferri Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Our Group supports the adoption of the proposed law, which essentially means, as we have already heard from the Minister's introductory explanation, compliance with the rules of the European Union and the OECD, which require the separation of the insurance system and the financing of export transactions provided by the State from the transactions now carried out by Slovenian exporting companies, banks and other institutions. In doing so, I would like to point out that Slovenia, I mean both the government and the economy, which is also a member and participates in the Slovenian export company, and in particular the Slovenian export company, has in a relatively short time developed an effective system to promote exports and foreign investment in us and our foreign countries, which other developed countries have taken much longer and also spent more resources, including budgetary resources. Through the Slovenian export company Slovenia provided an over-average share of Slovenian export insurance, data for 2002 13%, data was also mentioned by a colleague Dr. Bajuk, and what I would like to stress in particular to colleagues and colleagues, without greater risks or more accurately without imposing the budget, i.e. without burdening taxpayers. If there were no risks to export transactions, such insurance would not be and would not be used by a much more developed country than we are. On the contrary, even a question may be raised if the government policy and, consequently, the policy of the Slovenian exporting company were not even too conservative or because of the domestic "ziheraška", which is also negative, since it restricts the export possibilities. The key is the results, the numbers. On the basis of these, it can be argued that the activity and involvement of the Slovenian exporting company in promoting exports without negative financial implications for the state budget shows an appropriate and effective policy system and the high professionalism of the Slovenian exporting company. In addition to the figures, this shows the reputation created by this institution in a relatively short time in an international association of similar institutions. Let me also say that every year is correct, as provided by law, and will also report to the National Assembly. And we had the opportunity of MEPs and Members to get to know in detail the business in this area, and so on. The importance of export insurance and other activities of the Slovenian exporting company is further acquired when Slovenia enters the European Union. Let me just give you a few arguments. First time. By entering the European Union, we fully transfer the competences of trade policy and the system to the European Union, including agreements with individual countries. Another time. The former forms of export promotion will no longer be possible. Subsidies, exchange rate policy and the like. Third time. We are still weak in the area of promotion and other activities of the country in support of international economic cooperation. Partly for objective reasons, due to the insufficient resources we invest in this activity, for some other reason, I would say organisational, human resources and so on. In the case of a small domestic market, the Slovenian economy is doomed to export and multilateral economic cooperation. This may be on one side of the limit, but we think this is primarily our advantage, and our opportunity. But you need to know it and, of course, you have to take advantage of it. Therefore, the more important the activity of businesses, their associations, financial institutions, as well as countries, of course in accordance with the rules of the European Union and other international institutions, I am thinking of the OECD and the World Trade Organisation here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u199	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs should, I stress, according to our assessment, be one of the most important areas of external trade or financing. According to our assessment, the law should allow for some kind of internationalisation of the Slovenian economy. It should be coordinated with at least three important institutions in our country. So, Banka Slovenije. We know that some coordination has taken place with exporters. We know that these coordinations were not at the general level and, of course, with investors, especially with Slovenian investors. We also know that there were no such coordinations. According to our assessment, the law should be shown in five areas. If the law were good, good, and good, and if the law were to serve the content of the title. First, increased exports. Secondly, direct investments of the Slovenian economy abroad. Thirdly, increased economic growth. Fourthly, in the share of the Slovenian control of the foreign market, and not only as is the case in the existing system and on the basis of the current and unfortunately this law, that is to say, the control of a certain share of the eastern market. And in the accelerated growth of individual export-oriented activities within our country. Unfortunately, though, the bill follows our assessment of different trends or desires. The law before us has come about exclusively - which the government permits and predicts - to comply with the acquis of the European Union, that is, before the entry into the European Union. According to our assessment, the original sin of the law itself is that it does not define anywhere the consequences of the potential risk that some speakers are trying to minimise before me today, namely the entry and partial control of certain critical markets. We estimate, however, that the positive feature of this law, which is before us today, is only one change, a partial change in the organisation of the Slovenian export company - the separation of the part that operates at the expense of the State and the part that operates for its own account, especially taking into account and knowing that over 90% of the ownership of the SID is owned by the Republic of Slovenia and slightly less than 10% in various banks, insurance companies and some other companies. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this law unfortunately represents a whole set of mistakes and various missed opportunities when we legislate according to our assessment of very flat-rate legislation. Firstly, the law is written on the basis of the strategy, as already stated today, the development of the 1999 export insurance and financing system - from 1999, and we are now approaching 2004! Therefore, if the 1999 strategy is based, we must recognise that this is a bad basis, that from 1999 to today in the field of external trade has changed a lot and that we should not have agreed to the theory of such a foundation. Despite the additional information requested by the Committee from the Ministry of the Economy and obtained certain information on the development of the SID by 2002, it is our view that the general error is the non-compliance with exporters. So today it is not possible to know whether the basis or whether the content of that law will have a positive impact on exporters as the main segment of the law. Also, according to our assessment in the law, the whole set of inconsistencies and uncertainties, as indicated by the changes in the introductory articles, in the absence of the rules that will apply to the functioning of the system, namely the ignorance of acts that will ensure such action; secondly, there are no definitions of changing services and transactions that can be carried out by individual authorised institutions, and from the law, according to our assessment, there is no obligation under Article 9 of the Act, which is the interest compensation programme. Thirdly, if the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, as both proposers, discuss the quality of the SID, its coverage and extension in the last period, why we then have a tender in Article 11 and why Article 11 does not define the SID as an organisational form that will operate in the form of an authorised institution. According to the National Party's assessment, it would make sense to reject the law because it represents a set of missed opportunities and does not meet what we would need in this country. We stress, however, that we need to know that at the end of the previous week we have also decided, or that you have decided by the ruling majority to sell the Slovenian export company, SID, which, according to our assessment, should also be taken into account when adopting such a law, from 92% to only 56% ownership within the framework of the SID. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Blaž Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u201	Madam Vice President! Dear government officials! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that the Slovenian Export Company is one of the most successful projects in Slovenia alone, since October 92 the Slovenian Export Company has been operating. One of the results of this company's operations is that in Slovenia we have one of the highest percentages of total exports secured by insurance instruments and credited with appropriate systemic resources. Therefore, this Slovenian Export Company, which has been operating since October 92, is a special private financial institution, an export credit agency as well as other developed countries in the world. The SID’s task is to promote the economic relations of the Slovenian economy with foreign and Slovenian companies, in view of the possibilities, by securing and financing export transactions and investment and other activities, while providing competitive conditions for entry into foreign markets, while carrying out certain transactions on behalf of the State and with the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligation under these transactions. So this has been the situation over the past 10 or 11 years. The proposal to some extent to change the regime is based on the need to regulate this area in Slovenia before we enter the European Union before we enter the European Union, and this is a set of activities where the country has a particular role. In particular, it is necessary to reorganise the Slovenian exporting company by separating the part of the transactions that this institution carries out at the expense of the State from that part of the business that this company carries out for its own account. This is, of course, necessary primarily for the purposes of protecting competition. There is also a need to reshape the existing interest rate regression for export credits in the interest-balancing programme. The funds provided for in the current interest-balancing programme should be allocated to the co-funds of the interest-balancing programme under this Act. Of course, it was also necessary to take account of the user’s website. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the bill is prepared to allow a relatively soft transition from the existing system of insurance and financing international economic transactions to the new system, so that for users, it is said, for Slovenian exporters themselves, the conditions of their operation will not be substantially changed. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will therefore, together with the amendments we have drafted, support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Other views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State and other contributors, colleagues and colleagues. In our parliamentary group, we have been monitoring the treatment of this law through the mother's working body and we believe it is appropriate to adopt it. We believe that the export of the Slovenian economy is increasingly entangled in European and global markets, especially at the time we enter the European Union. In the past, companies that were aware that they could not limit themselves to the current Yugoslav market and even less to the Slovenian market and exported the bulk of their production, but also had some support from the current country, the smallest shock at the collapse of the market and are still doing quite well today. Such companies and new emerging gazelles, as we like to call them, must also be helped by the Slovenian economy. One of these aids is also an international economic insurance and financing system. The form and content of this aid is governed by the proposed law, while at the same time we are coordinating it with the system in the European Union, as the rules in this wider system apply. With this law, the Slovenian export economy will have both moral and material support through the Slovenian export company. Of course, the risks we have talked about and will be present, but only those who take risks will succeed. In the past, the Slovenian exporting company has demonstrated the eligibility and support of the country, and we must also trust it in the future, as well as the banks and other actors involved in promoting our exports. As no amendments have been proposed to the amended bill, we also believe that the proposal is suitable for adoption and will be supported by our DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 19.12.2004 following the end of the agenda. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and inform you that at 5:45 a.m. we will be moving to the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement, until then I am adjourning. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u205	Dear Members, honourable Members! Representatives and Government Representative! So we're going to move on to 8. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. I would like to take the floor with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Master Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members! In the second reading, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee considered the law. Many amendments were tabled to the law. I think that the debate we had was very fruitful and many amendments were included in the updated draft budget I apologize, the law. The budget's so close, and there's more to my words. In defining individual amendments, the government has pursued two fundamental objectives. The first objective is to bring the law fully into line with the rules applicable in this area in the legal order of the European Union. The second objective pursued by the government in this regard is to simplify the procedures as much as possible, but not to the detriment of restricting competition or playing a role in the acquisition of individual transactions. I think that so prepared a law for second reading is a good basis to support it, by adopting today, perhaps even those amendments to which the government, in accordance with the same principles as I have already said, has been defined, otherwise we are contributing to the implementation of the law immediately at the beginning of the second year. This could, according to my assessment, improve the method of public procurement, increase the free access of individual providers on the market, increase transparency over public procurement, and, in my opinion, when all the sub-laws are in place, and they are already being prepared, could also reduce the number of infringements that have taken place in this area in recent years. That's why I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! That proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement was considered by the Committee at its 53rd emergency meeting on 19 November this year. In practice, soon after the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, 1 it appeared that certain provisions constituted a legal and actual obstacle to the execution of the procurement procedure and the need for changes to the law appeared relatively soon. In doing so, it shall be noted that certain procedures are subordinated, while the law also contains concepts which are not known by domestic law. The Committee started its consideration of the proposal at its 38th meeting, on 1 July this year, as the bill submitted was included in the deadline for the National Assembly for July. In view of the numerous comments made by the legislative and legal services and the large number of amendments tabled, it was decided, at the beginning of the Committee's hearing, that, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we should postpone the discussion and decision on the proposal under consideration to one of the future meetings. At the same time, on the basis of Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure, a decision was taken to make a public presentation of the opinions submitted. This presentation of opinions was carried out on 23 October this year in order to contribute possibly more constructive solutions to the substantive quality of the legislative proposal. Further consideration was initiated at the 42nd meeting on 6 November and continued and concluded at the 53rd emergency meeting of the Committee, as I have already said. Many amendments have been tabled, if I have counted correctly, I may have been wrong about more than half of the articles, which speaks on the one hand of the importance of the content of the law, and on the other hand probably of the government's under-involvement in the first stage of the drafting of the law. The main points of the debate were the following. The supplement that was transmitted would not, in fact, repeat them because they are detailed in the extensive report. [[...]] Finally, I would only point out the following: that more than half of the articles have been corrected and amended and partially corrected to introduce even four or five new articles. I therefore propose, in view of the enormous and quality work carried out by the Committee or members of the Committee, that such an amended proposal be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 27th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we will go to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 15.12.2003. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you very much. However, I support what the Members of the four groups have given. I don't think there's any issue. However, I would ask here concerning the second paragraph, without these additions, which have been written here, where it states that, in addition to the contracting entities referred to in the preceding paragraph of this Act, they also consider the contracting entity to be legal persons of private law who, in order to satisfy the needs of public interest and not to carry out a gainful activity, establish, I do not know, the Republic of Slovenia, the local community and so on. There are also cases where some companies, for example, perform part of the tasks in the public interest and obtain the other part profitably. There is no distinction here in this part in such cases, when, how, but there can be these contradictions. Whether this applies only to an activity in the public interest or whether this applies to society as such and so on. I think that this provision in this part, I don't know if it's accurate enough and it would suggest that it might be completed later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u212	I'm sorry, but I didn't fully understand what the question was.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u213	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u214	See, in this case, we can have companies set up by municipalities or municipalities, and this company is doing part of an activity in the public interest, a public activity, and another part of a profitable activity. And it says here that this conflict can occur because society, I don't know if it only applies to an activity that it does in the public interest, or whether it applies to society as such. For example, Dars is probably one of those after the new because he has some work in the public interest, and some things he markets profitably, simply, for example, cable water and uses it for his business.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u215	Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u216	Therefore, if we are talking about private companies, then the private company is a contracting entity under this law in the event that it carries out an activity in the public interest. This is from the law, according to my judgment, clear and accurate. In the event that it does not carry out activities in the public interest, of course it is not a contracting entity under this law. As an example, I state that a private company is a concessionaire, for example, it has a concession. In this case, it clearly belongs to a group of those exercising public interest. And in that case, the contracting authority is under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u218	Well, if I'm specific. Following the transformation of Dars, Dars is a concessionaire, concluding a concession contract with the State for, I don't know, certain activities. In this case, is this Dars still committed to working under the Public Procurement Act or is he no longer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u220	as referred to in the first indent of the second paragraph, where, to a large extent, it is financed from the resources of the contracting authority referred to in the first paragraph, that is from the State budget in that case, and if the State, which is the second indent, exercises control over it. [[...]] Both conditions are met, so he is obliged to carry out contracts in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we understand that, even now, cases are taking place, what we have also written down in the law on the implementation of the budget, in the case of investment in infrastructure, municipal or other activities, including in the field of cleaning facilities, should be carried out in accordance with the law on public procurement. Therefore, we also consider this second article to be the main issue. It does not matter here whether this economic company generates profits or losses, it is said, as the government's explanation is about to say, but that it carries out a public economic service within the meaning of the law. That's it. And, of course, if it is implemented, it is also subject to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. That is what we have understood in our country, and that is why we have also been signatories to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u224	See, as this amendment is likely to be adopted, the amendment to the amendment and will essentially be open and I would ask for an explanation by the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article and open the debate on Article 4 and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 10 and on the three amendments to this Article. All three amendments are proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u226	We must be aware that we are actually talking about the public sector and about the use of public money, and it is therefore reasonable that these rules are fairly clear, fairly clear, fairly uniform and equally binding and that there is some way of predicting the same behaviour. Therefore, in the text of such laws as this one, there must be no more or less solutions that allow for free interpretation or free judgement and in this case the word "may" is absolutely superfluous. On the other hand, it is right that things are also public and we have proposed in this second and third amendments a supplement to make these things public and, above all, it must be allowed to assess in some way this independent institution, which we now have and is still envisaged. I also think that it is wrong for purely free contracting authorities to decide on the procedure in this public work. It is only right that someone in this case also arbitrates and also decides. In this case, when this is done through the Public Procurement Office, there are no specific problems and it does not mean any delay in the procedure, as all these contracting authorities are leading these plans, projects, investments, and what I know is all very planned. It's also very planned. In addition, we have two-year budgets and five-year development programmes at the same time. This is true for a large part of spending in this public sector. And if we close this public work and independent control, then with such laws in some way something can't be right, because it's probably in the background that another goal can be pursued, if not directly, consciously, but all those who are contracting can do so. In practice, this is also often the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Although we initially assessed that the article was clearly written enough, we agree that the word "may" be deleted, and that then perhaps the matter is even more inconclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, I conclude the debate. And I am opening the debate on Article 11 and on the five amendments to this Article. The proposed amendments from 1 to 4 are the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and the amendment is under the five four members of the coalition. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u230	Good. Now, in this article, there is one such important article, and I think that this article is primarily three things, one of which is "essential" because, in this way, the word "essential" in some way makes it possible to carry out a process, and this matter is not essentially defined anywhere. It's nowhere in the term to define it, nor is it defined here, nor does anyone even know if it means plus, minus, let's say 10% of the term, or that means, I don't know, plus, minus 30% of the tender value, or that means, I don't know, plus, minus 20% of the change in the volume of the works, or that means, I don't know, breaking the order, let's say three parts, but it has one 80, 90%, and the other two by 5% and so on. And this word "essential" somehow incorporates the possibility of really one quality manipulation in and gives subscribers completely free hands to decide for themselves whether it goes in this way or in another way. I don't think this introduction of this word is appropriate. In our view, in the first paragraph, too, this fourth paragraph is superfluous because it once again incorporates an exception into the public procurement system, a law in which, if we look closely at it, an exception is written in every third article. It says "essential" somewhere, somewhere "may", somewhere "limited", somewhere "not to be published", somewhere "not to be reported" and so on. The type of these matters is, and this is also one of those who gives the contracting authorities significantly too much of an opportunity to handle these matters on their own. The problem is also this fourth paragraph. Now, with all due respect to disabled companies, I do not think that this can be solved. For in the procedure or in the law provided by Comrade Drobnic, these things are in some way, if this law were adopted, otherwise resolved, the resolution of these disability cases was very precisely foreseen through specific forms of employment, training and other things. And in this part it is disputed that this is not limited to companies that are profitable and to companies that are non-profit. I don't mind at all if there's some special regime for disabled companies that are non-profit, but this exception can't be written for profit organisations, even if they have the status of disabled organisations, because it's some special system, some special regime. And a call must also be issued for this part. This Article, or this paragraph, allows the contracting authority to release the enormous value of the contracts without an invitation to tender only by agreement. Giant numbers can be released because there are no restrictions on either side. And let's say we give this way to build a tunnel under the Trojans if I caricature this thing. Someone just registers, gets status, gets activity, and just takes over the business. And through such provisions, which are listed here as exceptions, disability companies can also take over, I would say, the development of a region, after all. That's quite possible. And I think there's another way we should limit these things. This is too open and allows too many orders to be awarded without a call for tender, some, I don't know, 200 companies in Slovenia. I don't think that's the most appropriate solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. As far as the word "essential" appears in Article 11 is concerned, I must say that the word "essentially" is somewhat vaguely defined. However, from case to case it is necessary to assess what is essential. However, the fact is that, in the event of a failure, an open or restricted procedure, it is necessary to amend certain elements of the invitation to tender, otherwise the case may be condemned at the beginning to fail again. That is why we have made this provision in the articles so that those elements of the offer, pardon, of the tender that are not essential can be changed. In fact, the conduct or implementation of point 11 of Article 11 of Directive 92/50 and point 7 of Article 93/37 is also determined. So we believe that such an arrangement should remain. As regards the specific situation of disabled companies, it should be pointed out that this applies to those public contracts that are below the threshold laid down in the rules of the European Community and, consequently, the solution that has already been established in the legislation to date is still acceptable in our opinion. It is true, however, that the new directives of the European Community will deal with this issue in a new way and, of course, it will have to be followed in our legislation in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. So just like I'm listening to you today, we've been talking about the law on restricting corruption. And already in that law, I have made my statement and I have said that, in fact, this national assembly, when it adopts unclear laws with such and similar vague provisions for individual articles, actually allows many corrupt acts to occur on the basis of different interpretations in this country. And I am sure, as in the previous article, I have heard that the word "may" has been included. This is, of course, such a widely interpreted concept that, on the basis of this, the tendering commission may, I don't know, decide in one way or another. Also in this article, if it remains "essential", of course, we have given the Commission the opportunity to decide, on the basis of its own subjective assessment, what is essential to it or what is not essential to it. And I'd like to warn you about that. All such descriptive terms would, of course, have to be deleted from the law if we wanted the legislation to be clear. And that's why I support all such amendments. I'm only saying one case I experienced on Monday. In my office, there was someone, a representative of a company, who applied for a public invitation to the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the decommissioning of cars. I don't know if that's what it's called, but it's just a procedure in accordance with the European Union Directive, which needs to start in the Republic of Slovenia. The tendering commission decided that the tenderer who was missing a bank stamp on the guarantee certificate was not essential to the tendering procedure. So that's not the point. So, he could have made a guarantee, some paper without a bank stamp, without an official stamp. And if we let this happen, then the callers decide what is essential, what is not essential, then it will happen to us over and over again. Of course, such decisions by these commissions can then be supported by various other ratings from the background, and this is in fact a way to facilitate corruption. I propose, Madam Secretary of State, that you agree to remove all such notions, in accordance with the amendments, from the law. It's the word "may", "satisfy,...essential" etc. Let this be deleted from such an important law as the Public Procurement Act. On one TV show, we could hear that through the public procurement system, it is estimated that some 40 billion Slovenian tolars will disappear into private pockets. It's a huge number, and the law has to be enough to make it impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Madam President. When I read and listen to the government's answers to this proposal, I have to ask myself what we're writing the law for, why we're reviewing it. Isn't it because we're going to get some more clarity? Who will decide what is essential and what is not? It is not stipulated by this law, let the Commission decide for itself what is essential and what is not. I think that this is true, as colleague Sok has just said, a source of permanent corruption and will on the part of bureaucrats. Of course, the argument that public procurement is of lower value cannot be accepted at all. We know very well how much of the total public spending that goes through public procurement is of little value. In all Slovene municipalities, this is then left to the discretion of the committees. This seems completely pointless to us. The argument that the government has written here, why it does not support it, and what we have just heard is totally unacceptable. It is imperative that we delete such words. As far as disability companies are concerned, I think it's time to end this fraud. We know this because it is well known, in Slovenian media we have read several times how this concept is exploited, how some really exploit it and on behalf of it they have some disabled employees, and then they have access to public spending without real competitiveness. Czech Slovenian state to support the functioning of disabled people, I think this is the right thing to do. However, it is important to be aware of what instruments we have in our hands to achieve this. This law does not protect people with disabilities, this law protects taxpayers from having as much money as possible from how these funds are being spent. However, if we want and advocate that we support disabled companies, then we have all the tax legislation in which we can write these things, but in a more concrete way than we are now. So we have to keep an eye on what we're writing this law. This law is written to ensure that taxpayers have as much as possible of what is being wasted on their behalf. However, not that there are other objectives that can be legitimate - and I am in favour of such an arrangement, but that it cannot be regulated in this law, which we know of, we well know that there have been other uses in our country. But, of course, this should not be discussed because they are also connected to certain circles. Yes, you know, if we don't do this now, then we can only expect this to continue indefinitely, so all the words "may" and "essential" have to be deleted in the name of minimum transparency. As far as the arrangement for disabled companies is concerned, it is necessary to support it, but not in this other area of the law where we defend the interests of taxpayers, and this is our first duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u238	Look. I think it's been quite a bit said now, but I would have remembered the statement made earlier by the Secretary of State. True, it is only those orders that are up to that level that do not require a publication in the European Community, which is EUR 5 million, that is 10 million old marks, that is, a billion tolars, that is to say, in this particular case we can give an order in another case in the amount of EUR 1 billion to a society, also with an amendment made by the four parliamentary groups, in the fifth amendment we can submit projects of up to 1 billion. You know, these are huge numbers, this is the budget of one congregation that has 10,000 people. And when we take things like this, I mean, we have to be aware of the dimensions of numbers. This is not now about, I don't know, 8 million tolars or 10 million, but we're talking about 1 billion Slovenian tolars in any case. How many times a billion can we put out a year, or anyone can ask, and without a call, this is agreed between the two partners. I do not think that these things, which are written here and dealt with in this way, are appropriate, so we have also proposed that this matter be deleted. I agree that this issue needs to be addressed in a different way, with other mechanisms, with other instruments, but not through the distribution of hard-earned state money or municipal money after all. I think that these matters need to be given a lot of attention because they have very large consequences and have very high potential. By adopting the law, all these things move to other levels, and that's where they're done. That is the case, and I think that this fifth amendment that you have tabled in, and this fourth that we propose to delete, that this matter should be respected, and that it also needs to be respected, and that is also what is "essential" because someone is arbitrating, someone decides, and in this case there is no appeal. If an investor or a contracting entity decides, this matter that he will do is irrelevant and there is no one who will check whether it is right or wrong, then we no longer have public contracts, that is to be known. There are no more public contracts, because they can all deal with these "by passports", with decisions of what is essential and what is not and what is not, and with such a built-in, I would say, a mechanism for the outflow of state money for certain purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. In order, I think, as you raised your hands: Mr Grošelj, Mr Bajuk, Mr Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u240	Yes, thank you very much. I do not think that public finances are as easy as we sometimes try and show. It has already been mentioned that it is necessary to publish this in the European Official Journal, but everything else, I think that is the same with all the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. However, I think that it is also necessary to take into account the fact that is stated here in the explanations, but what if, whether we are talking about a restricted or open procedure, this invitation to tender has failed and needs to be supplemented somewhere. Then, in any case, you're stopped, you're blocked. You put in about two months, I'd say before this whole procedure runs out. Of course, we do, and I also discuss from this point of view when you are competing for the funds you, of course, also from the state budget. We know that this is mostly late, and not least, that you should report all things again, which means, in that financial year, you can't actually get any funds. And I don't know why we see so much fear in this. But those of us who have worked in these areas also know how often you are in trouble. Pasaj isn't just about you being a public finance system, I don't know if you're gonna bring them around, but you're gonna do something your own way. By whose means? With the municipal, public, and those who are, of course, responsible, as the authorising officer and so on. I don't know. I don't understand here. There are, however, cases that need to be done. This isn't just about the goods. But it's mostly services, I'd say, and also construction and so on. It's the only way we know how this process is going. Sometimes something happens to fall out. Just as we will later find out whether this tender documentation should last mention which subcontractor you will have there, or who will be with whom you are contracting. Since you're not the last to go down, I'd say, even in that division, I'd say, in conflict, and not least you can try to enforce some of your principles, but one of your suggestions when you say, if you take this subcontractor, you're going to get a job, and otherwise, what, I mean, is at the end of the line it's confused with all logic. The contractor who will succeed in meeting all these conditions, of course, you also sign the contract with him, and it is also a responsible person. And regardless, of course, we will also talk in Article 13, which options are also as a guarantee, as long as the contracting entity gives the request to the contractor I do not see, I would say, so much fear as appears in the final stage of each public procurement, but that it is also bound to do so [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Look. Where's the fear? This law is mainly written for the Slovenian situation. I worry very little about how the European Commission will react, because I know very well that if this does not comply with the directives, they will quickly tell us, and I know that we will make a change of law in the quickest way and will have to behave very well. That's what we're used to. As far as the interest of Europe is concerned, these things are regulated as they are appropriate. The problem is for smaller orders, in a closed circle of a relatively small country such as Slovenia. I'll tell you what I'm afraid of. Do you know what I'm afraid of? We have here, we don't have many bidders, nor do we. Sometimes it happens that there are very few. Then they agree not to apply. This opens up this new mechanism and, of course, if it is less than €5 million, because it is of interest, the European Union is not interested in smaller things. Smaller things we have to be interested in, not them. We have to be interested. What we will not be interested in is very little concern about how we will deal with these things in Slovenia. And this article opens up this possibility. This possibility for certain gentlemen to agree is not presented. Or should this possibility then open up and through this article, to the extent that it is less than five million euros, and that will certainly be the case, and then we have the opportunity to do so through a different procedure. That's exactly why we have to have a marriage so that we can bring discipline into our space. To make it clear to all that when working with public funds, it is necessary to work in accordance with certain rules. However, the rules must be so written that such abuses will not occur as far as possible. We know that this is happening, we know that this is happening, we must prevent it and, of course, we must ensure, as far as we are concerned and we can predict it, that the resources that people trust us will be used as best as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you. Our expectations are probably similar in many ways to opposition and coalitions. We want rationality in the use of taxpayers' funds, but of course we also want rational procedures. It is right, of course, that all potential fears are being renegotiated and, of course, many of the arguments we have already discussed and discussed on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. And if, in particular, we are discussing the possibility of awarding a public contract under a procedure without prior publication, of course, it should be borne in mind that this procedure is not simple and does not allow the award of public contracts just like that. In the event that the contract does not exceed the value from which the invitation to tender is to be published in the Official Journal of the European Community, this is not sufficient for the award of the contract without prior publication. This is merely a necessary condition, in addition to explicitly stating other conditions in which it would point out in particular that the final number of potential tenderers, which must be notified in such a case, must be known in advance. The law further requires that all tenderers be treated equally. This, in our sincere opinion, lays down the conditions for the procedure to be more rational and, at the same time, sufficiently transparent and equitable for all tenderers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I would say once again that in Article 11, we are not talking about a negotiated procedure without a prior publication, which is simply starting in this way and only when the open procurement procedure fails. The first chance was given to everyone. If there are no tenderers, we can go into a direct negotiation process. Of course, in such a direct negotiation process, sometimes it is necessary to change some element of the tender documentation, what I know, hypothetically, the color of a product, because it turns out that the color that we imagined and recorded in the tendering documentation does not exist on the market at all, is not possible to obtain, or any material or similar. In short, I do not think there is any reason for any violation of the provisions of this law to have occurred through these elements.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u248	Well, look, the fact is, we're not brilliant in public procurement. That's a fact. All reports from the Court of Auditors speak precisely about this: it is not a budgetary user, at least what we have read in recent years reports from the Court of Auditors, which had no problems with small or large orders. He's not here. Now we're just opening these things up, just simplifying them, just relaxing them. So it's just going to go any further. With regard to the deletion of the fourth paragraph, it reads: "The contracting authority may award a contract for goods and services under the negotiated procedure without prior publication even if the provider has the status of a disabled company." So what you said earlier, Madam Secretary, is not entirely true. So he's giving the order to someone else. I'm not afraid, but the problem is we're operating on data where there are enormous numbers of misused funds in public procurement procedures. And by amending the law, by simplifying the law of this matter, we must not be saved in such a way that it is suddenly discovered that this is no longer a problem, just because we have changed the law. It's a disaster if we do that. The law needs to be taken into account and the law can be taken into account without problem, there is no problem if the documentation can be prepared, if the matter can be handled properly and properly, there is no problem. Even if it's a complaint, there's no problem. If we have bad documentation, if we evaluate this as a matter of fact, then there are complaints and procedures in the tenders are falling. That's perfectly logical. However, this poor conduct of the contracting entity, and whoever it is, must not be remedied by reforming and simplifying the law in this way. That's nonsense. We must have certain things and the country must have an interest in being under control, after all, and so the law is being passed. And now we're adopting a law that we're not going to work on the basis of public procurement, but we're going to work on it. And that's a disaster in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I hope you don't think of it as a furry thing. But it was Mrs State Secretary's answer, at least I understood what the difference between the government's approach and the Slovenian coalition's approach to this approach was. When she spoke, she said that there was a possibility of a public invitation to tender. It's not an option. It's an essential requirement. And this request must not just disappear because it was not successful for the first time. We have not yet assured these principles, which this law must follow, by giving us the opportunity. It's not an option. It's an essential request. And this requirement must be enforced precisely because, on behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State has not replied: how will we prevent gentlemen from making a deal in our more closed place, the area, let's say, let's let this go, because then this option will go through us, there is no requirement, and then we can do it our way, and we can either deal with the mayor or with that representative for different prices, because it is less than Europe requires. Europe will not care about us. We have to worry that public use in Slovenia will achieve the goals that taxpayers expect of us. But it's not an option. It's a request that needs to be made to the end. This is the only way to bring about such discipline as is necessary in our field. We know exactly what this is about. Have we not assessed, and in public presentations we have also assessed how much money is lost due to non-compliance with this law? But marriage is not respected because it is so written that it is allowed to be respected as little as possible. And what my friend Tanka said is right. That's what scares us. What, though, is the purpose of the law if we are simultaneously creating mechanisms that will work in parallel just to ensure that the marriage is not respected? We have to end this, and we're not going to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u252	We all actually know what this is about. We all know how this process of public procurement is possible for thousands and one way to play. And neither do I, Mrs Kamnareva, with this answer when you said that color could be unfair. See, in a public invitation to tender, it can deliberately cause something to be lacking, then it does not come to an end, and it will happen again, etc. And if we enter into marriage such options, then these plays will be more recently I have read in Youth how to build a school in one month. Of course not, one only applied because no one could build a school in one month and then no one was chosen, because the other one withdrew his offer and went into negotiations, etc. But it's all our legislation that obviously makes it possible. Because this legislation makes it possible, and because nothing happens, it comes to, I don't know, we could read about the yellow disks that came up afterwards and then it was the fault of the power plant that probably changed something. In the law, we need to prevent these possibilities from changing things in this way. And I would be very happy to see that in the ruling coalition, if you are committed to rationalisation, which we are all talking about to support and make the law as clear and transparent as possible. If not, it is, of course, free to say that this National Assembly is working to prevent corruption. Such poorly written laws often allow or even promote corruption. That's what this is about, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u254	It may be significantly different after 2004, but there is not enough work in our country. And a lot of bidders are coming. So there is absolutely no problem for big orders. And I don't even know who would play. I already mentioned it. That is why the appeal deadline is also, as you can see how many complaints we have about the audit, the revision of the procurement procedure. We've got them. However, I would not now agree with Mr Tank, who said that we know what it was like and what we considered on the budget control committee, as if it were consciously in violation. I am speaking in mind, but I think that we had in these reports that we have dealt with, in particular, with findings that have shown that there were significantly more public resources spent when one project was completed. Those are the mistakes. Also between 50 and 60 percent or even more. Let us also see when we have considered reports for individual local communities. The system we have been implementing for four or five years, and last but not least all those who make these calls, are very afraid of any complaints or audits. Why? I also speak solely for wasting my time. Everyone who works wants to get to make this investment as cheap as possible. Therefore, the documentation must also be prepared. But it also happens when you find out that there's something else you need to fix. And this in these cases, in particular your point 3 speaks about it. Some maneuverable, fair space, if I may say so, must be contained here, because they also want to protect their public funds that you have through the state budget or through cooperatives, but at this final stage it almost doesn't matter. That's what I'd say. Anyone who, you put in a call, looks at your own hands to open up and start an investment, too. They are examples, they have not agreed, then, of course, the whole chain, as we used to have reproduction chains, but it cannot contain the whole content or at least what we are saying in this article 10 or 11 of the Public Procurement Act. I don't see any fear here. You must also have that you can normally pull out and protect all interests, in protection, I would say, public and financial, of course, even your own business. It doesn't matter which company it is, or in the field of infrastructure, utilities and so on. Everyone wants to make the investment as cheap as possible and that this investment will also bring its expected success.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u256	I don't think everything is as ideal as you said, Mr Groschel. Slovenia has 2 million people, has, I don't know, 190, 194 mayors who have such and different interests. We were once among them, and I hope we both worked hard at the part where we had to implement this law. At least I know I did, and I got a report like that. But I'd like to say it again. We are talking about values that are up to €5 million and are not required to publish. Such contracts are at least 95% in this public sector in Slovenia. Very few investments, very few calls, very few of these things are over a billion 200 or 5 million euros, very little. The biggest road, and maybe some other project is coming, but everyone else is in here. Once this law is brought to a close and these contracting authorities are found, there will be nothing left of the Public Procurement Act, just the law. You know, we have experts in corruption, that's 100%, but we don't have experts in preventing corruption, and that's also 100% because they can't do anything. We have these, but everyone says we don't have the mechanisms to stop it. If we adopt this law, they won't even need it, because everything will be legal. Everything will run according to a purely normal procedure, by all principles, and it will no longer be a matter of any kind, it is no longer corruption, it will no longer be a mistake in the process, it will no longer be, I don't know what. The Court of Auditors will be unnecessary here, as will the Public Procurement Office. And that the matter is not quite simple, it also shows that there is a great deal or a number of audits that have found that they have a very different opinion on the same matter from the Public Procurement Office, which has agreed to a certain procedure, and the Court of Auditors, which carried out the audit subsequently, has a very different opinion. This is said to be the case, even those who are professionally involved in it, who are in charge, who have legitimate legitimacy and who are in charge of the audit, do not share the same opinion on this matter. Now, if we want to solve these dilemmas, these conflicts, these institutions, so that we can make it easy with an item, relax, then we've missed the point. It is clear to me that everyone who has fallen under public procurement is interested in doing so as little as possible. The infringement was largely due to the failure of three, four, five years to sanction and pressure these contracting authorities to respect the law at all. But it was going on with those methods before 1997. There was a problem. And here's the key to our relationship. Another thing is Mr. Groschel. When you look at the following article, the mandatory composition of the tender documentation is no longer prescribed. A new field will be opened to assess what will be required and what will not be required. It is said that someone working in the public segment will decide again freely, independently, what will matter to him, what will not be, what will not be taken into account, what will not be, and will again open up a new option and adapt to these matters. I think we know what we're talking about. These things, in this way, should not be simplified as we now do with this law. And if there is a need for a standard, we need such a standard in the public sector. How private companies work is their problem. But the public sector has to operate according to some rules. If the application for kindergarten is prescribed, what, if, I don't know, a tax return is prescribed, what if, I don't know, the application for a scholarship is prescribed, it is likely that the application for a scholarship may also be an application for a candidate and a tender or an application or a public procurement document. I think this is a purely normal and normal matter and a requirement that falls within the public sector standard of operation. We can't let things go like this. But it's worth up to a billion 200. Not for 3 million, but up to a billion 200. Half the municipalities do not have that kind of bill in Slovenia and we are talking about these numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel? You don't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 11 and the five amendments to this Article. I am opening the debate on Article 13 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, under the two four coalition groups. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u258	I mentioned earlier that this article, which is being corrected or proposed by this amendment that the word "may" be deleted, means only the continuation of the story that we have just told. I think all these modalities, all these free choices, and so on, must be saved from the test room. We will slowly bring this Public Procurement Act so far that we will not need another State Audit Commission. It's all going to be a free judgment. Everyone's going to make a decision. Complaints will virtually be no longer possible and so on. I think that the standards of public procurement should be set. Not to make it difficult for the public sector to operate, but to operate sufficiently crediblely, correctly enough and ultimately have adequate access to these public procurements by all eligible providers. It is not our goal to make pre-choice pre-choice by addressing or by setting out the form or content of the tender documentation that the contracting authorities are the ones making the selection of potential candidates. I think this is completely wrong and it is necessary to make things available to everyone under the same conditions, because this is a key point of public procurement, not selection and selection, and this is what every contracting entity does for himself, it is said that then the system is no longer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Since no one wants a word anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u260	First of all, I would warn - and this is what I have just seen - that these are the joint amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. We put in, signed together, and I think it's also a mistake in your archive. With regard to this Article 14 and our supplement, it refers to the deletion or that you have proposed that the documentation be provided by the contracting authority within six days. I think this case is completely irrelevant. Much better is an old dictatorship which requires the contracting authority to submit tender documents within two days. By allowing the contracting entity to manipulate up to six days, he may choose to give someone the first day and the sixth day. And in fact, this bidder, who, say, doesn't "feed," pulls in a week. So it takes him a very good time to make an offer. This dictatorship or extension of the possibility to the contracting authority means very much manipulation, gives the contracting authority much and significantly too much freedom and puts the contracting authorities in very unequal positions. I think that these hands must be very short, because on the day that the invitation to tender is issued, the contracting authority must have the complete documentation prepared and can distribute it immediately. However, it is not that five or six more days await this matter to be referred forward, and it also regulates this preparatory time for making tenders with the tenderers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Thank you also for the warning - there is indeed a mistake in reviewing the amendments. Where it is mentioned as a candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, it is clear from the amendments tabled that you are performing together with the New Slovenia Group. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 17 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia to this Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u262	In this case, I think it's a minor substantive correction. Even though we have already proposed this dictatorship on the Committee, it has not been accepted, we believe that this option is more professionally appropriate than the one that is accepted in this Article. I think it would make sense that this matter is also supported and accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 19 and the amendment of the same motions to this Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please. Then Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u264	The proposed exceptions set out in the basic text of the law are not appropriate and do not contribute to the regulation of the value of public contracts. Such provisions should be avoided and it is therefore also the amendment's proposal to delete the fourth paragraph of Article 19 of this Law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please. You don't want a word. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u266	The point is that, in fact, I do not understand why we should impose more difficult conditions than laid down in the European Directive. These are traps that I don't understand. I don't think we wrote anything. It's just like we had in the current law on public procurement. There was no change in this article. And that's basically what's left of the new marriage. But that we are more papal than the pope, I don't understand certain things, but that we can ruin our own lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u267	Thank you very much. First Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u268	You're asking why we'd be more papal than papal. In particular, we must ensure equality. As much as we have developed instruments for equality, this does not mean that we are sharper. In this respect, we are more just in terms of symmetricality to public procurement or exceptions. That's a fact. Of course, some countries have key instruments here, of course they are the same because of the single space. However, they may also be specific.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u270	Before commenting on the solution contained in this supplementary text, it is also necessary to read carefully Article 29, which is in this third paragraph and which reads as follows: The contracting authority must not include the value of the contract for the construction of the value of goods or services which are not necessary for contracts in order to avoid the application of the law on the procurement of such goods or services. And now we have placed as a contracting entity an addition which "is carrying out activities in the water energy, telecommunications and transport fields." This is said to apply only to those contracting authorities in this area. The rest of the public sector can do so. We therefore make an exception that contracting authorities of the other public sector may add new items which are not for the purpose of the contract to the invitation to tender in full. You know, this one's a little tough. Because this way, I don't know, there's also a facade in a joint home, and so on, or some other facility, and there's no public order. I don't think we should make this thing that simple, and there must be no exceptions in this part. Contractors may not add to the values an order for the construction of the value of goods and services not required for the execution of the contract. I think it's perfectly normal. By putting that exception inside, we make a huge hole for 70% of the rest of the public sector. That's the next huge exception. This means that contracting authorities in the public sector, whether it be a municipality, a public institution or anyone, can do what they want with a public contract. They're signing one, and they're "touching" another three times the value of a contract because there's no limit. If this is how we imagine doing business under the Public Procurement Act, then this business is no longer. That's what we need to know. When we enter an exception, we make one valve. And this big valve. That means a whole other solution. And we probably shouldn't be so tolerant in this legislation again that we're just going to "provide," I don't know, some facades when we're doing some kind of barrier, so we're going to throw some asphalt on the other side, 20 kilometers away, and so on. That's not gonna work. Therefore, these matters need to be resolved in a different way than with exceptions. An exception has been written for each article that we have considered so far. It is only in every article that we have now considered that an exception has been written either in publishing, or in presenting on the portal, or in running, or in applying the procedure. We've also expanded the procedures. Now it's not just an open procedure, but it's another one. In short, the whole thing works in some extremely free way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate at the time of Article 43 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups, i.e. the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia, to this Article 43. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. The condition for e-commerce already lays down the law and therefore it is not necessary to provide for these basic provisions in this law. This is a problem that has been emerging for some time to copy general provisions of a universal nature into individual provisions in order to make it more applicable. Where necessary, a subcontractor's organisation should be regulated by a sub-legislative act to receive and process tenders with appropriate technology in order to avoid errors and misuse of procurement procedures. What is already regulated in the law for the purposes of electronic bidding is entirely sufficient and does not need to be otherwise regulated in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 53 and the amendment of the four coalition groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 57 and the two amendments of the parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia, to Article 57. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u274	This article is also one of those which, in my opinion, are essential, as this article reduces transparency and allows contracting authorities in the public sector not to publish their data and to hide themselves behind or behind some of the wider social interests. I think that any action in the public sector is in the public interest, and therefore I do not think that anyone in this area should be allowed to publish the particulars referred to in this paragraph or in another. This means, in some ways, the possibility for contracting authorities to hide behind their decisions, to define them as important and as obstacles to the functioning of companies and can also be classified. This also prevents transparency for all candidates and also for those who want to know what is actually going on with these public funds. I think that there is also a need to ensure maximum transparency, maximum transparency in this area. That is why we will have an electronic portal after the news, and we also have existing ones in the Official Journal. And with all these things that have been completely normal so far, it is perfectly normal for us, when we, as those who have carried out a public order, to publish all these data, to now again allow for the possibility of someone to define, and not by some public procedure, but to decide not to publish these certain things. This means that all this public work and spending of public money begins to hide behind some barriers, for some plans. By doing so, all those who do so will be able to usurp matters and carry out these procurement procedures in exactly the way they are suited to that moment. When there will be no "past" thing, and if these things are written like that, almost in no way will there be any "past" thing, then there will be absolutely no examination on this part and everything will be wrapped in a veil of mystery, darkness, darkness, darkness and so on. Everything's going to go somewhere and it's going to work in a very, very mysterious way, and it's going to work out the beds. If this law is adopted in the form it is written, the box will function. The deal itself, just not publishing, hiding, up to a billion 200, doesn't have to do anything at all. This is a practical destruction in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u275	Thank you very much. In accordance with the order in which you applied, Mr Sok, Mr Drobnic, Mr Grošelj. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that. For the sake of the public, if he follows us and listens to us, I will read the fifth paragraph of Article 70, which is with this amendment, inter alia, propose to delete it. He says: "The contracting authority does not need to publish certain information on the award of the contract if the publication of such data would impede the implementation of the law or would otherwise be contrary to the wider social interest, or if it interfered with the legitimate economic interests of public or private companies or interfered with fair competition between tenderers. I think such a paragraph of the article is scandalous. In fact, the public and private interests of legitimate economic interests may be in the interest of not publishing the data. I am increasingly convinced that this law and this provision have been written by people who expect a certain commission on the basis of this law. In fact, the Bible was written by people who expect commissions. I told you before that in the magazine Youth I read about how to build a school in one month. It was a month before the school was built. No one checked in. Of course, who can build a school in one month. As no one applied, under the Public Procurement Act, direct negotiations with the already selected contractor could take place. Finally, even because of the legitimate economic interest of this company, no information shall be published anywhere. It's a scandal. This law, ladies and gentlemen, this law legitimizes corruption. In fact, I am surprised that you can offer something like this as a proposaler and suggest that this should be accepted in order to comply with European Union legislation. Thank you very much. I cannot vote for such a provision. And I'm surprised to hear the debate here, in fact, two former mayors who both know what it is, both of you know it, but you're having a completely contradictory discussion. I must say that Mr Tanko has convinced me much more with his discussions than my colleague Grošelj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u278	Therefore, the law is likely to aim to achieve transparency, reduce corruption and equality of access. But this from the beginning to the end of the law, or from the beginning of the phase, this first phase of the contract, to its conclusion. People need to be aware of this, and especially those who pretend to do so. That's why we have the Official Gazette to publish it. Not that we're going or that you're going to a game about intermediate channels, where, for example, the law would be sufficient, but that information would not be available to people. All such attempts are inappropriate and do not aim, do not meet these three criteria, which are still the basis for the law: transparency, reduction of corruption, equality of access. Why are those goals not pursued, why not except for the publication of the final results, why do this, why not publish it? Exceptions are unacceptable in terms of public procurement and anti-corruption objectives. That's the most important thing because people know what happened. Those who are pretenders or any other citizen can get into this. This is the objective of preventing corruption. And we want to move away from this. That is why, of course, that law on limiting corruption, the title is wrong, we will limit it, otherwise we will have it, but we will limit it a little, as in kindergarten, and we will cultivate it in an appropriate way as some flowers. But that, that's it. There are problems in other laws. That marriage is going to do a little bit of good for whoever's in there. But such things in countless laws that are passed lead to whether corruption is prevented or limited or even accelerated. Of course, the amendments are very well-founded and I expect you to support them after the conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u280	Mr. Sok, I'm not even trying to convince you because I don't have to. I think that trust, as mayor, but I had, in all my 12 years, I got about 60 to 90% or 30% of voters, but it doesn't matter. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I reiterate the view that we are once again putting in place some new requirements that they do not have and do not apply to members of the European Union. Here I join the position of the government that we have before us. As far as the first amendment is concerned, it is. I read in the rapporteur's National Assembly and very rarely the Official Gazette. I don't know if a million 300 citizens read the Official Journals to be the only information, because then the mayors probably don't publish that D2 form every month, which they also have to send to the appropriate finance ministry to publish it through their own internal or I don't know any other notifications. However, each contracting authority is obliged to inform each person of the outcome of the invitation to tender under the current Public Procurement Act. Everyone gets it. I think that was enough because the government here also states that it does not support, especially because all of this is published on a single portal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tanko, then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u282	This law lays down very precisely the procedures or the directives applied to those parts of public contracts for which publication is compulsory in the Official Journal of the European Community. This is over €5 million. It all says exactly when to publish, how much sooner and so on. This Article also states in the third paragraph: If the award of a contract has also been published in an official publication of the European Community, the publication of the outcome of the award procedure should also be published in this publication. In this case, it shall send a request for publication no later than 48 days after the conclusion of the contract. It is said that this part is completely saved and unequivocal. But the problem is all that is up to the level of the European Community. And that's where we set up a lot of holes. Exquisitely large exceptions and extremely large tolerance. Suddenly, almost nothing has to be published if we decide to do so, not even an invitation to tender. It's all going on a limited process and so on. And that paragraph, before this paragraph, already says, or if I read the first paragraph: "The contracting authority shall publish the outcome of the procurement procedure on the single information portal of the Public Procurement Office no later than 14 days after the conclusion of the contract." No problem. The following paragraph: "The contracting authority shall not, however, have to comply with the preceding paragraph if the contract has been awarded under Article 19(2) of this Law and the estimated value of the entire contract does not exceed the value for which publication is required in the Official Journal." But this is a limited-procedure order. So we tie the other one to one exception, tie the third. In short, we have made sure that a number of decisions in the procurement procedures are covered by a variety of issues, various exceptions. This simply closes this transparency. And we cannot say that we have set ourselves the same rules as the rules for the European Community. They have an interest in large orders, over €5 million, and we have no interest in having those orders that are up to €5 million. It's, I said before, 95%, 99%. We no longer allow ourselves to be controlled there, and we incorporate special exceptions into this law. We block the release of information, we don't publish the results. Even procedures can be in some way, we have previously identified, very special, very special. They're allowing the show just like this, as agreed and so forth. In short, the law of public procurement is almost gone. It's all about this marriage. We're only talking about exceptions. Not about public contracts, but about public procurement exceptions. And these have now been created by 80% of all public contracts. And only those who can't do the procedure under another category will go through some very open procedures and have to use these matters. I do not think that this is part of this law and does not fall within the transparency of public procurement. That's, I'd say, a derogation from all normal standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u284	I'd like to replicate for a moment. Of course, Mr Grošelj; we do not have good estimates of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia. These assessments are poor and therefore we are also enacting a law on the limitation of corruption. The Government's argument that the acceptance of this second amendment would mean an obligation for Slovenian contracting authorities that contracting authorities from the Member States of the European Union do not have, at the moment when the assessment of corruption in Slovenia is poor, of course, does not hold up any real judgment. If we publish the data, would this be a significant reflection of these procedures? If they are not significantly irritated, if we do anything in this direction, as I myself have heard, I think that Mrs Secretary was also on TV on that show, when everyone finally agreed to lose over 40 billion tolars through public procurement in private pockets in Slovenia. But it's taxpayers' money. So whatever we do in this direction will be good for this country. And as you say, of course, Mr Grošelj, that's how it should be, but it's not. You know it's not like that. And if we adopt such laws, of course, this country will not be as it should be for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u286	Mr. Sok! What number for you contains all the elements of corruption? Last time, that's your problem. When you listened to the debate, you cooperated on your own, and if it's 6% for you, it's not for me for once. Of course I'm not saying she's not. But in this area, which I have been talking about, especially the first and second amendments, of course, I do not understand and see corruption in the sense that you interpret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u288	Yeah, and maybe two sentences on corruption. By correcting the law such as the Public Procurement Act in this way, there is another law, when the previous conduct that has been assessed as inappropriate acts has been assessed by the Court of Auditors, and by someone else when we change the content of this, we will obviously also make a reform of what corruption is, thereby correcting 70% of the findings of the Court of Auditors. That won't make the problem any less. So many things will be done now only under the cover of the law, that this will be universal and pure and supported by these things, but it is in principle actions as mentioned earlier by colleague Sok. Business, corruption goes on. It's all blinded up, it's nothing, it's all going on in the back, and so on. That'll be all. There'll be more. Correcting the law on public procurement just to have better statistics in the end is pure nonsense. This law should be corrected in order to have a better and more transparent business rather than statistics; to see that there is no more corruption now - than when we corrected the law on offences, but I do not know what has occurred, a crime or a purely ordinary offence. We didn't save anything with that. The cases are taking place in an undeclared number, even more so because the penalties are five times smaller and so on. And here they're going to be the same. By correcting this, we will not take a completely better step towards improving the public sector. On the contrary, these problems will only increase, but success will - they will be legal, and that will be the result. And this will no longer be judged as a problem, as a matter that is assessed as illegal because it will have a legal basis in the back. You'll be able to do that. This will only lead to bigger problems – legally bigger problems – on a legal basis. I suggest that you review these matters carefully before you decide on them both in the government and in the coalition, and see what the real goals are, because this will bring about exactly what I have just said.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Since no one wants another word, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 64 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia to this Article. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I must say that with the government's view that there can be more subcontractors for long-term investments and that these subcontractors can often be replaced, I agree. For this reason, I believe that it is necessary to consider whether sub-contractors should then be referred to in the final report. However, as stated in Article 64, paragraph 6, which amends the entire Article 79, it seems to me that it is written illogically and without real meaning. For if you write that this report should include, inter alia, any part of the execution of the contract that the subcontractor will carry out, if known, then this is an empty provision of the law. No subcontractor will be known at the time of such a marriage. But why would he be if the law allows "if he's known"? Then this matter must be written differently or, in accordance with this amendment, the word "if known" should be deleted, because it is in fact an empty provision of the law and further means the possibility of adapting and acting by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 102 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am opening the last debate, this is the debate on Article 106 and the amendment of the same motioners to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 19.55 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you all very much, and at 7:55 p.m., we are moving on to decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u292	We will move to a decision on the proposal of two conclusions from colleague Andre Bajuk and colleague Alojs Sok for a discussion on the reply of the Prime Minister or the Minister to their question. I'll wait another second and then we'll start making decisions. Please check your voting devices first. Are you so kind as to check the functioning of the voting apparatus that there are no misunderstandings? Do I understand that we can get started? Is everything okay? We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In line with Dr Andre Bajuk's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Master Anton Rope, to Dr Andre Bajuk's question on the government's strategy for selling state-owned enterprises in the light of the proposal for a new European Takeover Guidelines. Can we make a decision? [[Yeah.]] We're in the middle of a vote. 55 in attendance, 18 in and 36 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We decide on Alojs Sok's proposal for a decision on the following: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of Minister of Justice, Master Ivan Bizjak, to Alojs Sok's question on the ownership of the fundamental organisation of Slovenian Bistrica co-workers. Comrade Sok, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. Just to refresh your memory, you know, to hope that they didn't vote anyway. However, I asked Mr Ivan Bizjak, Minister of Justice, where the property of the fundamental organization of forest forest co-workers from Slovenia's Bistrica disappeared. The bankruptcy procedure was introduced in 1993. It was a considerable amount of property, such as working machines in business premises, then in two homes, in Osankarica and in Crikvenica. The bankruptcy procedure, which was introduced in 1993, also received its application at the police station in Slovenska Bistrica, because most of the owners of the procedure felt that they were being compensated. Out of this bankruptcy procedure, most members received nothing, while 12 members established a new agricultural cooperative in this area. Given that in all these years the indiscretion has done nothing, I have asked this question yesterday to the Minister of Justice, but I am not satisfied with his reply, which was practically absent. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Article 265, this debate be held in the National Assembly and that some backgrounds of this process be revealed here, which, of course, was not possible in the short term in the Member State question within three minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u294	Please, my friend Peca. No explanation for the vote, no discussion. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u295	In the National Party, it is estimated that one of the main tasks of the National Assembly is to hold discussions when there is reasonable suspicion against corruption, so in the National Party's Group we will support the proposal of Mr Sok, a respected colleague, to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u296	Can we decide? We will vote on the proposal for a decision. Please. We're in the middle of a vote, please. We vote on the proposal for a decision. 63 in attendance, 17 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 44.]] This proposal for a decision also did not receive the necessary majority. I take it we've exhausted this point of the agenda and we can move on to another one. Here the assembly will vote on Friday, on the third, also on Friday after the end of the last item of the agenda, so that we can move on to the 4th item - this is the adjourned debate on the second reading of the proposal for a law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and the limitation of corruption. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I'll ask for your attention in the hall so there won't be any misunderstandings. We're at 2a. Article 1(2) We are voting on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to 2a. Article 1(2) We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 61 in attendance, 13 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] This amendment did not receive the necessary support. Article 6 shall include the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. We're voting. 66 present, 52 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment received support. By Article 24, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group had tabled an amendment. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 64 present, 54 for and 8 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] This amendment has received support. In Article 29, we have the amendment of the LDS MP and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs. We're making a decision. This amendment has also received the necessary support. 64 present, 50 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] We're at Article 41. We have the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DesUS MPs. We're making a decision. We decide on the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 41. 62 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] This amendment has been adopted. This concludes the vote on the amendments and concludes the second reading of the bill. Minister, please. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u297	Mr President, on the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that, given that amendments have been adopted to less than a dozen articles [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u298	Attention in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u299	The proposal for a law that the assembly decide to carry out a third hearing at the same meeting of the assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u300	It is a well-known business proposal for a third hearing to be held at this meeting in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to decision-making. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 65 present, 50 for and 13 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of this bill on Friday 19 December following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare an overview of the amendments to be adopted and the articles to which these amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm gonna break up with this point by then. We're at the 5th item of the agenda. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on Friday, so that we can move on to Point 6 - the second consideration of the proposal for a law promoting the development of tourism. We have two amendments tabled. The New Slovenia Group first tabled an amendment to Article 5. Can we make a decision? We're voting. We are under the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 5. 64 present. 17 for, 42 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Order! The same parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment to Article 25. We're voting. Excuse me! I'm sorry. Breakup. Please, Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u301	Thank you. I want to explain my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u302	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u303	I will vote in favour of this amendment. This amendment allows children or young people under the age of 26, if included in regular education, not to pay a full fee, tourist but less, half of this fee. This is an encouraging gesture for young people involved in tourism. This is how many people around the world are arranged.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u304	Anyone else want to explain their voice? Please, my friend Diaci. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u305	I'll support this amendment, too. I think so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u306	Just a moment, mate Diaci. Like everyone else, you have the right to debate in peace. Please be quiet in the hall. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. President. But I'll be short, probably shorter than you were. I will support this amendment, because I think it is good already in young people, and we consider it to be up to 26 years of age to encourage this sense of tourism in them, and I think there will be no short-term damage or even long-term benefits from this title. I therefore propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u308	Anyone else? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u309	Thank you, Mr. President. We also support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian National Party for the reasons already stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u310	Let's make a decision! I can't see my hands anymore. We're voting. We are under the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 25. 60 present, 21 for, 36 versus. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments and concluded the second reading of the bill. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold the third reading of the bill on Friday, 19th this month, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. I'm gonna break up with this point by then. The 7th point also states that the assembly will vote on the law on Friday after the end of the last point. That way we can move on to the 8th item of the agenda. We have a lot of votes. So I'm going to ask for your attention. We are in the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'll take the decision slowly enough to allow you to report an explanation of your vote. Also, pay attention to the articles we will be following. We are now with Article 2 and with the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs. We're making a decision. May I have your attention in the hall? We're in the middle of a decision. 60 in attendance, 48 in, 5 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. In Article 4, we have an amendment of the same parliamentary groups. We're making a decision! We're voting. We're at the 4th. 63 present, 47 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. At Article 10, we have three amendments. All three invest in the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary group. We will first decide on the first amendment of these parliamentary groups, i.e. the amendment under order number 1. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 10. 64 present, 56 for, 4 versus. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have a second amendment of these two parliamentary groups to Article 10. We're voting. 63 present, 18 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We still have a vote on the third amendment to Article 10. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 14 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That is how we have now decided on the amendments to Article 10. We're at Article 11, where we have five amendments. First - as you have before you - we will decide on the first amendment of the SDS and NSI to Article 11. We vote on the first amendment to Article 11. 58 present, 20 for, 35 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the second amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 11. We're voting. 57 present, 16 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the third amendment of these two parliamentary groups to Article 11. [[I'm having trouble with the voting device.]] We're voting. 62 in attendance, 17 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are at the fourth amendment of these two parliamentary groups to Article 11. We're voting. 81 in attendance, 13 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We also decide on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS, to Article 11. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 44 in and 12 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it this amendment has received support. At Article 13, where we have two amendments, we have completed two. First, they invest in the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary group, and second, the four previously appointed parliamentary groups. First of all, we will decide on the amendment of the SDS and NSI MPs under order number 1. We're voting. 61 present, 15 for and 43 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are now deciding on the amendment of the four groups of Members. We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 13. 57 present, 46 to, 4 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. With article 14, we have an amendment of two parliamentary groups, SDS and NSI. We're making a decision. 62 present, 14 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Article 17 The same two parliamentary groups, SDS and NSIs, table an amendment. We're voting on him. We are voting on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 17. 60 in attendance, 14 in, 44 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. By Article 19, we have an amendment to the same two groups of Members. We're voting. We're voting! 64 present, 15 for and 47 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Article 43 is also subject to amendments by these two groups of Members. We're voting. The SDS and NSIs shall submit an amendment to Article 43. We're in the middle of voting on him. 59 in attendance, 14 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Under Article 53, we have the amendment of four parliamentary groups: LDS, ZLSD, SNS and DesUS. Article 53 We're voting. 61 present, 46 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have two amendments to Article 57. Both invest in the SDS and NSI. We'll decide on the first amendment first. Please, please, please, please, please, We're voting. 65 present, 20 for, 44 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 17 in, 40 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The same two parliamentary groups shall table an amendment to Article 64. So to the SDS and NSI. We're voting. 64 present, 17 for, 45 versus. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. By 102, we have an amendment of four parliamentary groups: LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 46 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 106 is amended by the following four members: LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. That's the last amendment. We're voting. 58 present, 46 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u311	Thank you very much. In view of the fulfilment of the condition laid down in Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this Act be examined by the State Assembly in the third instance at this 32nd meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-16-SDZ3-Redna-32.ana.u312	138. Rule of the Rules of Procedure, proposal for a third hearing. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of those present. Can we make a decision? We're voting. Procedural proposal, please. If it's more than a third against it, it won't be accepted. 60 in attendance, 44 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The proposal was adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third consideration of the bill on Friday after the end of the last item of the agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This point has been interrupted until then. I'm adjourning the 32nd session of the National Assembly. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. And the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee invites all members to the great salon where you will meet. I'm adjourning the session. Thank you for your cooperation and a pleasant evening.
