ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u1	Good-bye! Good morning! We will begin the last day of the 31st session of the National Assembly. I also welcome those who are already on their way to the hall, or I invite them to join us. You know the agenda items that are on the agenda, and the first are of a mandate-free nature. Above all, we have a vote here, so I would like to ask for your attention in this regard. Before we proceed, I will inform you who will be absent today due to other obligations. These are colleagues Barovič, Battelli, Brejc, Kangler, Kavčič, Kelemina, Komljanec, Levič, Merlo, Štemberger, Terčon and colleague Maria Possonec. As a matter of fact, we'll move on to 40 first. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider three proposals by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the President and the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors and the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We will also consider the proposal of the Minister of Justice to appoint the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. At the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, the National Assembly will also consider a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. Before this, I must remind you that the secret ballots on the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia will be held at the same time, I repeat, at the same time, after all three proposals have been concluded. We will first proceed to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. On the basis of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mrs Floriano Bohl be appointed President of the Court of Auditors for a period of nine years. First of all, does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Several colleagues announced the reasons for their views or views of their respective groups. My friend Sušnik gave up the presentation. He wants the word of a colleague like this? Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, I would just like to say a word about the candidacy for the President of the Supreme Court, and I would like to take this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u3	Please. Then we'll ask our fellow schoolboy - do you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I have four colleagues written in the debate between Members and Members. Anybody want a word? I guess not. That is how this debate is concluded Then we are considering the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the first Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed, pursuant to Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors of the State Assembly, that he appoint Mr Tomaž Vesel as the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors for a period of nine years. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want a word? No, no, no. He's giving it up. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the President want a word? He doesn't. Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Colleagues Sušnik, Podobnik and Školč are reported. No, no, no. Okay. Does anyone want a word from the representatives, therefore from the Members and Members who have applied? Not at all. Good. Then I conclude the debate, even the candidate does not want a word. We then move on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Please, if there can be peace in the hall. Those who are late, please enter so that the work of the National Assembly is not disturbed. On the basis of Article 36 and Article 37 of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that Mr Dark Bohnec be appointed vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia for the period of 6 years. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain this proposal? That's not the case in this case either. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? No, no, no. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Colleagues Sušnik, Pece and Školč have been reported. No, no, no. Okay. Then I ask if any of the representatives of the Members and Members who have been notified wish to speak. Not at all. This debate is also concluded. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors and the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, on the appointment of the President and the First Deputy President of the Court of Auditors, and in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, on the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the chairmen and the four Members or Members elected by the national assembly on my proposal. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals. I'm informing you that these are colleagues of Moga, Kelmina Juri and colleague Areh Lavrič. I am a member of this commission, as I have already said, also as chairman. Would anyone object to such a proposal? If not, we'd go to the vote on the composition of the commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. 55 present, 53 for, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] This is how we elected the commission in this composition. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three votes shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors and in accordance with Article 37(5) of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, each proposed candidate will be appointed if voted for by a majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote here in the voting booths, which have already been put in place. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. My colleague Kelemin is excused and my colleague, Mr. Zammernik, would have replaced him on the electoral committee. My colleague, Mr. Ambassador, would you agree with that? Is there no objection? Is this for the National Assembly okay? I think it would be right if we decided once again on the composition of the electoral commission. Colleagues Moge, Zammernik, Juri and colleague Areh Lavrič and himself as chairman. I have to put the composition to the vote again. Please, let's make a decision. 57 present, 53 for and none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The vote will begin at 10 a.m. and 20 minutes. It'll take up to 10:00 and 40 minutes. 10.30 calls me Secretary General. Would it be the right time to start the vote 10.30 and last until 11:00? There are three ballots and it is necessary to distribute electoral material three times. In order not to be late, it is necessary to take this into account. So, at 10:00 and 30 minutes, we start the vote. It'll take until 11:00. Excuse me? Are there three voicemails? Please, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u4	President, can we rationalize this and distribute all three votes, because we're not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u5	We will, but they have to be counted, the matter has to be done according to procedure, there are three election menus, please take this into account. Ten. I'll start by 11 p.m. We'll vote, we'll call it off at 11 p.m., the electoral commission will retire to room 217 and inform you of the results immediately after the end of the session. We'll be adjourned by then. Please, the session has been suspended. Please come to room 217. At 10:30 a.m., we'll start the vote and we'll stop at 11.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u6	Your Honor! I transmit to you a message from the President of the National Assembly that at 11:30 a.m., the results will be announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u7	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. It's 11:30 and it's time for me to inform you of the decision of the National Assembly. First of all, we will continue with the suspension of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President of the Court of Auditors. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate for the President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 November 2003. 72 ballots were distributed. 72 ballots were delivered. One was invalid and one was invalid 71. 32 members voted in favour and 39 against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the majority of the votes required were not appointed President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. Since the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members, I will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the sixth paragraph of Article 8 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. We continue with the adjournment of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the President or the President of the Court of Auditors. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 November 2003. 72 ballots were distributed, and so many were delivered. Two votes were invalid and 70 were valid. 62 Members and Members voted in favour and 8 opposed. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Tomaž Vese was appointed First Vice-President of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the National Assembly, I congratulate him on his election! [[Let's hear it.]] I'm asking him to take an oath before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u8	Honorable National Assembly! I swear to do my work in accordance with the Constitution and the law, fairly, conscientiously and impartially. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Once again, on behalf of your colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a successful performance of your new duty! We are moving on to the adjournment of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I'll read the minutes. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 November 2003. The 72 ballots were also delivered 72, one was invalid, and 71 were valid. 52 Members and Members voted in favour, 19 against. On the basis of the outcome, Mr Darko Bohnec was appointed by a majority of the votes of all Members for the Deputy Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Congratulations on your appointment. [[Let's hear it.]] This concludes this part of the agenda item. We're moving on. We have a proposal from the Minister of Justice to appoint the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Minister of Justice Mag. On the basis of Article 62(1) of the Law on the Courts of the Assembly, Ivan Bizjak proposed that he be appointed as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. The myth of Deisinger. I'm asking if the authorised proposer wants a word. No, no, no. The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? I understand you're not. The President of the Election Commission does not want a word. Representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. First of all, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to briefly present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to elect mag as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Mitja Deisinger, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court. His fellow Member on the election committee, Comrade Rokavec and Bozič, have put forward this position in a public vote. We've received all the necessary materials. The presentation of the candidate, as it is clear, was considered by the Election Commission at two meetings in the process of preparing the material for the meeting of the National Assembly. Mag. Mitja Deisinger is a respected and well-established expert in Slovenian legal circles and also active and recognised abroad. In his work so far, the President of the Supreme Court has put in place certain projects and actions for which he was responsible as President of the Supreme Court and which proved to be good. If I mention only some: the informationisation of the land book, this was a successful project led by the Supreme Court and coordinated by him himself and the result is good, more than 90% of those are now fully informed and the next year will be 44 district and other courts, when they resolve the proceedings within three months, all the belongings in this regard will be resolved. He actively participated in the Hercules project, as it was a project formally led by the Supreme Court. He also established the strategic council of the judiciary. A centre for education was established in his mandate. In the debate on his appointment or proposal, the issue has been very open to the public, once again, this is the current issue, this is the issue of judicial backlogs. The material shows that the judicial backlog in the Supreme Court was significantly higher only in the administrative department and not in the other departments. And it was in this section that there was an increased caseload. Colleagues and colleagues, we had one experience a few years ago when the Supreme Court was not without a President for several months and it turned out to be a bad time for the Supreme Court. At the time that Mitja Deisinger was led by the Supreme Court, at least as far as I know, to his personal level, to the level of his, I would say, there were no comments on the professional and moral habitat, at least I did not track them. And one more thing. In these very days we have received the last issue of the case law. And in the introduction there is a good, in-depth record of Professor Dr. Marjan Paučnik who says, "Some media responses give a false impression, as if the situation in the judiciary is very critical." Next, "I will not say that the judiciary does not have some very serious problems, but on the other hand, it is also true that the state of the judiciary is gradually improving and that there is a pool of energy that can be used creatively." I also have a very good interview with Norman Doukoff, former adviser to the Ministry of Justice, a German judge who has lived and worked in Slovenia for the last three and a half years as a pre-accession advisor to the Slovenian judiciary. Inkot was known before the end of his term, at a press conference he found some real matters in the Slovenian judiciary. In his performances he was very direct, and he also challenged reflections, but, however, colleagues and colleagues, as Dr. Marjan Paučnik says when he speaks of the Presidents of the Court, not the President of the Supreme Court, he says: "The President is not a pursuer, but he is a race that shines like a pulse of positive energy." I think you might as well in case of mags. Mr Deisinger was subject to this assessment and our Group of Members will support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u11	My friend Run. No, no, no. He's a friend of mine. Just a moment, let me get this straight. My friend Lavrinc raised his hand. You cannot take the floor on a case-by-case basis between the views of the groups of Members. If I understand correctly, you will perform on behalf of the Group of Members instead of your colleague. My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u12	In the Slovenian National Party, we have a different position than the speaker before me, namely the proposed candidate for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court for the following reasons. First of all, the work of the Supreme Court as one of the basic forms or governing forms of the judicial system in our country is, of course, large backlogs for which there is good work. On the other hand, this candidate is granted permission for the absence of individual members or judges from his or her work circle and for referral to other duties and duties, thereby automatically increasing judicial backlogs. Thirdly, which is possible even the most if I can call it vague, it is in any way reckless to distribute funds and thus, of course, to prevent the normal part of the judiciary. According to our assessment, and especially for the minutes, it is necessary to say that we do not agree in the national party with the selection process itself, which we have already pointed out on the home labour body, as well as on the public, so we will oppose the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The word of Comrade Lavrinz. Just to warn you, there in your neighborhood for peace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Not to think that my words are so clever, but they are worth the attention, because I am, after all, speaking as a member or representative of the LDS Group of Members. I'd like to say this. The delegation's work is not always pleasant, but it must be responsible and, of course, in our Group of Members, we will do this work responsibly in this case. No one claims that Master Mitja Deisinger is not a good forensic expert, but that he is a bad manager, but it is also understood from today's contribution to the work where the Director of the Public Procurement Office explains that there have been irregularities in public procurement. So it is also a time when we could or should take time to consider how to organize judicial administration. In my opinion, the administration of justice does not work well with us because it is dealt with by experts who are not, but are not judicial experts, and in this case, of course, it is also worth considering, as long as this is regulated as we have to assess whether the work has been done, whether the work of the judiciary is good or not. After all, this will also be a message, our vote, a press release. If we attach ourselves to the Minister's proposal, then of course, I think it will be a message that the judiciary has met our expectations. Of all the 18 conclusions adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy in its consideration of judicial arrears, it knows that the judiciary is currently poorly fulfilling its mission and should be helped to come to the Green Branch in some way and, of course, we will not support Mr Deisinger in our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u15	We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Would you like a colleague of mine to say one more word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word, colleague Anderlich? [[No, no, ……]] One more time, comrade Lavrinz? [[No, no, ……]] A fellow school? [[No, no, ……]] Okay, then we'll close the debate and move on to a decision. Please. Please come to the hall. I won't wait any longer than a minute, then we'll make a decision. We will decide on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Mitje Deisinger as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of six years. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 69 present, 23 for, 42 versus. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the National Assembly of Mags. He did not appoint Mitja Deisinger as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and this decision has not been adopted. Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing a Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. The proposal to amend the decree was submitted to the assembly by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. He wants a representative, the president's word? We have not received the application of Members and Members to the debate, so I am closing the debate and passing through I am asking for peace in the Chamber. [[...]] We have not received the application of Members and Members to the debate, and I conclude this debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for health, work, family, social policy and disabled persons. We can decide. We're voting. Please, please, please, please, please, After the vote, I will put this review on the display so that it will not be necessary to identify elsewhere. 60 present, 53, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day - This is a proposal for a bill on amendments to the system of payments in the public sector. It is a matter of dealing with the bill in an urgent manner. The proposal was tabled by the government. Would any of the government's representatives like to further explain the proposal? Please have your word, Mr. Klinar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you. Dear Members and Members! I would like to give a brief explanation for the changes and additions to the law on the public sector wage system. I must say, as already stated in the statement to this law, that we have fully aligned these changes with the social partners, which means that the expanded version proposed by the government party has not been adopted. For we have also proposed, through these amendments and amendments to the law, some other amendments, particularly as regards the general validity of collective agreements, the quorums necessary for amendments and additions, we have also proposed a solution to enable the government, through a regulation, to set minimum standards during the transitional period. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to reach agreement on this with the unions, so that a minimum volume of these changes has been adopted. These changes relate to four areas. In particular, the first amendment is to harmonise the nomenclature of professions in health care where it is a matter of complying with the Directive of the European Union - this amendment has already been transmitted in the Health Act, where dentists and midwives are introduced into the pay force as well as health workers. This is about a technical change. The second amendment touches on the extension of wage group B to the whole public sector. This is also to allow for the inclusion of managers in public administration in wage group B, which sets out directors, directors and secretaries, by means of a more precise legal definition of this issue. This is specifically the case for the Directorates-General, the Secretaries-General of the ministries and the directors of the bodies in the composition to be appointed within the framework of wage group B, as well as all other managers in the public sector. The third amendment touches on the establishment of a deadline for the adoption of all sub-laws and collective agreements. This is 45 days before the law is applied. This is also a technical change. And the last amendment, which is substantively crucial, touches on the postponement of the application of the law, namely the postponement of this period from 1.1.2004 to 1.7.2004. The reason for this is as follows. The government party has proposed that we should go in part, it is said, in the successful application of the law, in such a way that the paying groups A, B and C, say, officials, directors and public administration, would be introduced with 1.1.2004, which we believe would be possible at the Wages Office. However, the trade union side objected to a partial shift to the pay system, because it is the spirit of this law that the solutions are applied to the public sector as a whole. That is why we have agreed that 1.7 is a date for the application of the law in its entirety. We have also proposed the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. In fact, the solutions to the law are such that if the date does not move, there will be a legal void, because in fact the new system has not yet been applied and the old system is no longer in force. In our view, the justification for the urgent procedure in this respect is such and we have also proposed it. Otherwise, we think there would be a complete legal ambiguity. The law has also addressed the Internal Policy Committee and has adopted certain nomotechnic amendments which do not significantly affect the content of these amendments and additions. That's how much I'd have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The draft law has been discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy and colleague Celigoj, the rapporteur of the Committee, will now present his position; then we will hear the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Cheligoy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 40th emergency meeting on 20 November 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the system of public sector wages submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. At its 79th regular meeting on 14 November 2003, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. The representative of the applicant presented a brief supplementary explanation in the introduction, explaining that the key objective of the proposal was to postpone the application of the law on the public sector wage system from 1 January 2004 to 1 July 2004 for the whole public sector, which is also consistent with the social partners The social partners did not agree to a gradual transition to a new payment system, as proposed by the Government, because they felt it was necessary to establish a new payment system to address imbalances across the public sector at the same time. This will allow the government, the public sector unions, to continue intensive negotiations in order to further prepare the basis of sub-legislative acts and collective agreements. He further stressed that the draft law covers only the minimum level of harmonisation achieved by the social partners and brings in addition to that key amendment some minor changes and additions. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the comments made in their written opinion and stressed that taking these into account would lead mainly to nomotechnical improvements to the draft law. In particular, he drew attention to Article 3 of the draft law setting a new deadline for the adoption of yet unadopted sub-legislative rules, requiring the placement of the proposed content of this Article in transitional provisions. In the debate, the Committee members raised the following questions: Is it realistic to expect the government's agreement with the public sector unions to be reached by 1 July 2004? Could it not be possible, as the final date of application of the law on the public sector wage system, to set the date of 1 May 2004 already? And how the amendments to the Judicial Service Act and the proposal for this amendment will affect the changes in the salaries of the judiciary. In its reply to the questions raised, the representative of the proposer stressed that he considered the proposed date of application of the Public Sector Wages Act as realistic and allowed the government and the public sector unions to agree on all the implementing acts necessary for the establishment of the whole pay system. He further stressed that the proposed amendment to the law had no effect on the law on judicial service and would not affect the changes in the salaries of the judiciary. The Committee, as its own, adopted the amendments to Article 1 to Article 2 to Article 3 and decided on the title and a new Article 4a. The Internal Policy Committee is proposing to the National Assembly the adoption of a bill and the amendments mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. I'm gonna ask if the representatives want a word? Colleague Majda Zupan wishes to present the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by her colleague Diaci. First, my colleague Zupanov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Last year, when the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System was adopted, the proposer felt great confidence and satisfaction that the law would enter into force as early as 1.1.2004. However, negotiations with the social partners did not go as they imagined. 50 negotiations with trade unions, different levels of trust, constructive and unconstructive discussions. Systemic and interesting issues remained open and did not ensure that they would be resolved in other laws. They apply generally to the validity and termination of collective agreements. It remains concerned that collective agreements that are a condition for the implementation of the new wage system may not be adopted. The negative financial consequences will be due to the new content of the basic salary and their neutralisation is not agreed and the possibility of a gradual shift of 6 months to the new pay system is questionable. All these issues could not be reconciled, so the proposaler insists on the amendment of the law in that part of extending the application of the existing pay scheme even after 1. 1. 2004 or that the entry into force of the law for the whole public sector is transferred to 1. Seven. 2004 The note contains some other minor changes and additions. Amendments and additions are accepted according to the emergency procedure, we are pushed back into time distress because otherwise with 1. 1. 2004 created a legal void, resulting in a failure to pay salaries across the public sector, and this could also have serious consequences for the functioning of the country. In our Group of Members in principle, as we have already said many times, we are opposed to the urgent procedure. We note that we have come into a situation too many times in recent times when we need to amend the laws that we have adopted ourselves in the current term. The motioners are not prepared to listen to the comments and warnings of the opposition, so they are forcing us to make quick changes, and the question remains how to leave 140,000 employees without pay. Indeed, the state may be distracted, and the responsibility for bad work remains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! The essential regulation adopted by this law is Article 4, which is the extension of the time limit for the application of the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act from the time foreseen. 1. 2004 to 1. Seven. 2004 As a result, the time limit for sub-laws is extended. The government states that the reason for this proposal is the partnership agreement between the government and the unions to take some time to continue preparing the basis for the sub-legislation. If there is a constructive dialogue, we are happy in the Young People's Party, but we wonder if the agreed date should not be considered. In fact, at the newly proposed date of application of the payroll law, that is, 1. Seven. 2004 will be almost in the formal course of the ongoing and actual electoral campaign in the next election year. At the meeting of the Committee, the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia proposed a date of 1.5.2004. In order to enter the European Union, it would also be useful to resolve this matter at symbolic level by then, but we were rejected. This opens the way for all kinds of interpretation, while at the same time it is a good question whether this date is complete. Well, anyway, due to Minister Bohnic's claim that confidence in trade unions' negotiations has returned, we will support the change in the Party of Young Slovenia despite a very inappropriate date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The public sector is an area that our country has never managed to regulate to act as a functional whole, especially in the most sensitive part, that is in paid work. This part should regulate not only the level of wages paid by workers in the public sector, but also the classification into payment classes, the relationship and the system of progress, of course, directly or indirectly. Connecting these problems to the whole as a system prevents leaps from the system of individual sectors without consequences for other sectors also prevents classification, progress by individuals without adequate conditions. The regulated system is also important from the point of view of providing quality services to public servants, and, last but not least, this is the basis for the existence of this system at all, but it exists as a service for citizens. The size of this area, which is not yet functioning as a single system for us, is evidenced by the fact that in 2000 the total nominal value of public sector wages was 414 billion sitt, which is 10.2% of GDP. The number of people and the number of public servants was over 150,000. However, the current legal regime of the wage system is extremely uneven, different in areas, sectors, which has the effect of being opaque and incomparable. With such a large volume of financial resources, this is unacceptable and harmful for the country, of course, probably also as a consequence for citizens. Only example: 1% savings, the real increase or reduction in wages by 1% or an increase by 1% is 4 billion, which means that more than 90% of municipalities with a smaller budget than here is just an increase or a reduction by 1%. This means that if the system works, everyone would think carefully before they wanted any change in the system, but now that it's divided by different units, of course it's possible and, of course, things are the same as they are. These are huge funds, and those who control this money share it, also have enormous power. This is certainly a major reason why this area has not yet been settled. Legislation says that the package of laws that we passed and also adopted last year for the public sector indicated that we will finally bite into this sour apple. Last but not least, the warnings came from Brussels that we do not have this area regulated and that every serious democratic country should have it. However, despite the fact that the law on the public sector wage system should enter into force with 1. 1. 2004, due to the lack of agreement between the government and the public-sector trade unions for the conclusion of a collective agreement, the deadline for the implementation of the law to be extended by six months, not least, was also the root cause of this amendment. This is a delay, it says, is a delay in regulating the area for half a year or so, for another six months we will be able to work the old way and have an untransparent system. The reduced procedure speaks of the fact that we are back in the clutches of time distress and would say that, of course, we are aware of this, as if we had not previously known that we have not done everything that these laws and specifically this law have also imposed on us, whether we did not want to or did not want to, we have not been able, we have not been able. However, since the system needs to be regulated, and if this is the last postponement, we will support this in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but last time it comes to extending the deadline for entry into force in such an important area and when it comes to such terrible large funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u25	My colleague Potræ will now present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law. In this mandate, for the first time in years, the government has seriously undertaken the reorganisation of the administration, the creation of a new system of functioning of the administration and also one of the most difficult projects, namely the regulation of the pay system not only in the administration in a narrow sense, but in public services in general. There's a lot of work to be done. In coordinating the different perspectives on the solution of each detailed issue, however, we all know that more than 130,000 people have come to realize that it would be useful, because of the quality of the decision, not because of the formal deadlines, to postpone what is the most important proposal, from 1.1.2004 to 1 July 2004. I think that in order for such a decision to be well prepared, this deadline in the National Assembly should be made possible and encouraged by all those working on it to prepare things for good and quality, in order to really contribute to an effective work of administration, in the end also to a satisfied public worker, because it also depends on what his attitude is to all of them, on behalf of whom and for whom he performs his tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Bozič will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the amendments and additions to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System of EPA 1054-III. The explanation given by the representative of the Government and the Vice-President of the Committee on Internal Policy made it almost more clear than in the 21 lines of this law, which we are amending, in the five articles. We could only add that there is no state in the world that does not regulate wages on a permanent basis in the public sector, and this for centuries, not ten years like our old country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u29	As you can hear, I'm inviting my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Today, we decide in a consensual manner, and after considering the point, we move immediately to making a decision on it. Mr Jelinčič and his colleague Lavrinc are not present, so we have concluded our decision by presenting the views of the groups of Members. May I have your attention, please? Again, I warn colleagues and colleagues in the lobby that we are making a consensual decision today; this was in the work plan. Discussions can be made faster than they seem, and it will also be appropriate to make decisions. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. A few colleagues have given up the debate, so we'll be quick to make a decision. Whether the secretaries of the parliamentary groups can inform your colleagues that the debate has already expired. Therefore, no amendments were tabled to the amended law. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to invest, so we will move on to a decision on the law. That's what makes you feel better. [[...]] Can I interrupt this dialogue before making a decision? In doing so, I inform you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. The National Assembly will decide on the law. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? Can we make a decision? We're voting. Peace in the hall! 46 in attendance, 40 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been adopted and thus the agenda item. We're at 28. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on simpler border control in road and rail transport The bill was tabled by the government. We'll wait a second for government representatives to join us if they want a word. But we won't wait long. This has also been addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. President Kacin, would you like a word? No, no, no. Several parliamentary groups have announced a possible debate in advance. My friend Sok. No, no, no. Excuse me? Yes, you want a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u31	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u32	These ratifications are generally accepted without any discussion, without justification. [[...]] However, this one, which speaks of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the easier exercise of border control in road and rail transport, is of course interesting to me because I also live along the Croatian border, so I took a closer look at it. See, this ratification in its Article 2 implies that the Parties shall simplify and accelerate border control in road and rail transport under this Agreement. To this end, the Parties will establish zones, namely road transport zones and rail transport zones. They will also appoint a special mixed committee to meet once a year. Of course, now that I am voting on this, I am asking the question as to when these zones will be established, namely, in this ratification, there is no word in this agreement. And how many of these zones are actually predicted. On the contrary, I think that even if this was supposed to be a document of some kind of value, this should at least be framed in such ratification. Because, as a citizen of this country, I do not know if this will really contribute to what is said in the second article, i.e. to speed up and simplify border controls at border crossing points and railway points. Perhaps a government representative can answer this dilemma and answer the question, because I believe that when this ratification was being prepared and in Cyprus on 14 April it also consisted of having in mind how many of these zones and where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u33	He's a representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As you said, this is actually an agreement that will determine this procedure. In particular, the country is trying to simplify or actually facilitate this border crossing within the framework of a strategic plan to increase the number of passengers, particularly in the field of trains. In particular, customs control should be carried out on the means of transport itself, it is said, on trains. This solution is already known from the past, but we have not used it in cases with Croatia so far. In the final provisions of the law, we are talking about the Commission being set up and starting work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u35	Good. I understand that we can now move to a vote. The parent working body did not accept the amendment under the second reading, so there is no discussion of articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading or to the decision on the bill. I'm going to ask you all to take your seats. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because we are going to vote. We're making a decision. I'd like to ask for your attention in the vote, which I've already warned you about. Look, we've been working late all week, we're all tired, but we have to do our job conscientiously to the end. I'll wait a few moments and then we'll make a decision. Please, can we make a decision? May I have your attention and attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 41 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I find that we have passed the law and concluded this point. We're at the next ratification, under 29. On the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the fight against terrorism, the illegal trade in illicit drugs and organised crime. The proposal was tabled by the government. The government doesn't want a word. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] No amendment was adopted by the competent working body in the context of the second reading and cannot be discussed. This is how we move to a third debate and a vote on the law. If no one objected, we'd be moving on to a decision now. I'm asking everyone to pay attention to this. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. 30. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Malta on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illegal trafficking in drug-prohibited drugs, psychotropenic substances and prohibited compounds, terrorism and other serious criminal acts. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the representative want a word? Would you like a representative of the competent working body? Not at all. The parent working body did not accept the amendment in the second reading, so it is not possible to discuss them and the articles. That is why we can move on to the third reading and to the decision on the bill. Let's make a decision. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 49 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're at the next ratification. Under 31. We have a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Hellenic Republic on cooperation in the fight against crime, especially against terrorism, illegal trafficking in illicit drugs and organised crime. The proposer is the government. If he does not wish to speak, I note that the competent committee does not wish to hear the word, the parliamentary groups have not applied for the debate, nor has the competent working body adopted any amendments in the context of the second reading, so it is not possible to discuss articles and amendments. We move on to the third reading or to the decision on the law. Let's make a decision. Please, we are voting on this bill. We're in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. We have an act under 32. POINT OF THE DAYS, namely THE PROPOSAL FOR A ACT ON THE ACCORDANCE OF THE AGREEMENTS OF THE FORMER YUGOSLAVIA WITH ROMANIA, TO BE STAYED IN THE EFFECTIVE BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND ROMANIA. The proposer is the government. He doesn't want a word. Neither does the rapporteur of the Committee. There is also no interest on the part of the parliamentary groups in the debate. We have before us a decision on a proposal for an act, as no amendments were adopted in the second reading. Can we make a decision? The National Assembly will now decide on a proposal for an act. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 51 present, 46, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The Act has been adopted. This concludes this agenda item. Thirty-three. We have a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the European Code of Social Security. The proposer is the government. He doesn't want a word. A decent working body? Not at all. Then I understand that, given the warnings I gave at the previous points, so that no amendments have been tabled and it is therefore not possible to discuss, we can move on to a decision. Can we make a decision? Okay. The National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a law. We're in the middle of a vote. 52 present, 49, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. The agenda item is closed. We're moving to 34. Agenda item - Proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on amendments to the Central European Free Trade Agreement. This bill has also been submitted to the National Assembly by a government which does not want a word, nor by the Committee, nor by a parliamentary group, so that we can decide on a proposal for a law. We're voting. 53 present, 50 for and none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 35. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on the Peaceful Resolution of International Disputes. This law is proposed by the Government. None of the qualified candidates want a word. We could go to decision-making if there's no other wish. Okay. The National Assembly will now decide on a proposal for a law. We're voting. 53 present, 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 36. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Protocols on the Implementation of the Alpine Convention. The proposer is a government that does not want a word, nor are other qualified applicants. Can the National Assembly decide? The National Assembly will vote on the bill. We're voting. 50 present, 46 for and no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 37. Period of the day - Third defense of the bill on the return of unlawfully disposed subjects of the cultural heritage. At its 30th meeting, on 30.10.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. No amendments were accepted and no third reading amendments could be tabled. Thus, in accordance with Article 139, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting on the law. 53 present, 47 for and none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We're moving to 38. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF AMENDMENTS TO THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, UNDERTAKINGS OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The others don't want a word either. Thus, we will now vote on the proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, companies or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to a ban on the conduct of business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." We vote on this decision. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. The decision was adopted. 51 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] This concludes this item, item 38 of the agenda. Now we've got official cleared-up texts below 39. PERIOD OF THE DAY Can I have your attention, please? We'll go from conclusion to conclusion. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. Peace in the hall! We are moving on to the first decision, on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the law on gambling." We're voting. Peace in the hall! I will go through these conclusions slowly, but there must be peace in the National Assembly to decide. 55 in attendance, 46 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] This Decision is adopted. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially purified text of the Asylum Act." We're voting. 58 present, 49 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] This officially purified text has been approved by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Higher Education Act. We're voting. The law on higher education, refined text. We're voting. 56 present. 50 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Secret Data Act. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 60 in attendance, 51 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The value added tax law shall be officially approved." We're voting. We're in the middle of a decision. 59 present. 51 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] We have also confirmed this officially purified text and thus conclude this item on the agenda. Now we're going to continue with 3. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS THE THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COST LAW May I remind you that the State Assembly held a second reading of the draft law on Tuesday, as part of this meeting. The amendments have not been tabled, so that we can proceed to the decision on the law in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure. We decide the whole law. Please! Retails. The whole decision on the law. 59 present. 49 for and no one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. We've got a follow-up of 5. Agenda items and the third draft of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals. On Tuesday, the National Assembly held a second hearing. No amendments have been tabled for the completed proposal. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we will now proceed to a decision on the law. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! 61 present, 60 for, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. This is also the agenda item. 8. Period of the day, third defense of the bill on collective extra-departmental insurance. We had this discussion on Tuesday. The amendments have not been tabled, so we can move to a decision in accordance with Article 139. We're voting. We're making a decision. 58 present, 38, 19 versus. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 19.]] The law has been adopted and thus the item on the agenda. We have a nine. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Automobile Society Act. The National Assembly held a discussion on Wednesday in the context of the second reading. Since the amendments have not been adopted, we can now proceed to a decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Explanation of vote: colleague Tanko, colleague Sok. Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u36	On behalf of the Group of Members. The government has sent an extremely poorly prepared amendment to the Dars Act to the procedure and there is no justification nor purpose for amendments in this law, nor is there any reference to the effects of the proposed amendments that transform Dars from a public undertaking to an economic society. However, these effects will undoubtedly be because Dars will still build roads on his behalf and on behalf of the state, but all the results will also be generated at the expense of the state. The ownership and entry of new associates will result in the outflow of assets in the form of profits to the accounts of one of the "hobotnic networks" which will be used to continue this "by pass" of ownership of the company. And these assets in the form of profit have so far remained in the system of building highways. It is socially unacceptable that this profit will begin to be excluded from the activity of the construction of motorways in order to replace these assets with additional loans or bonds. It is also unacceptable that Dars will borrow loans on behalf of the State and that he will charge a commission for this new activity. So far it hasn't been and Dars will still be the biggest credit collector in our country. Although the credits will be paid by the state, the earnings will be from Dars. Also, there will be no more control over Dars, nor will there be any Court of Auditors, nor the National Assembly, and everything will take place in some "insider" way, as the entire supervisory board will be called by the government. The concessions granted to the company by the State in the long term for 30 years are also unacceptable, virtually with the possibility of unlimited extension. There is still a whole series of specificities in the law that we have pointed out and asked a number of questions in the debates so far, but we have not received any answer. And in our view, such a government's conduct is extremely irresponsible. The aim of the law is, therefore, to ensure, in particular, the long-term control of the selected lobby over Slovenia's largest project, the concealment of true data on debt and public debt, and objectives, the management of daily current tides and the elimination of imaginary profits. This change of law is certainly not in the public interest and is not in the national interest. Therefore, our parliamentary group will not take part in the vote on this bill. So he's predicting obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u37	The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has therefore announced obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in this decision. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. In New Slovenia we gave ours [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u39	Please don't be disturbed by a fellow Sok who has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u40	We have given our explanation and we are convinced that this law, in this context, as we are now offered, and which is currently being adopted, does not clear up all dilemmas. [[...]] In fact, it offers some confusion, one of which is - we have also asked about it and we have not received an answer - whether this law is in line with the company law. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as provided for in this law, there will be four government representatives from six members of the Supervisory Board, two from the Ministry of Finance and two from the Ministry of Environment and Space, but it is assumed that the board of shareholders will simply appoint a government through the Supervisory Board. This is how Darsa's work is avoided by the control of the National Assembly. To date, the National Assembly has had its representatives in the Governing Council. We have warned that, unfortunately, we have also tabled an amendment, we are convinced that it would be possible to take this amendment into account together, but it has been rejected; for some reason, we have tabled it to article 13, which was not amended in the second reading. Thus, the State will continue to accept the annual plans for the National Assembly to agree on the possible sale of state assets under Dars in order to provide guarantees to the State Assembly for the loans it has hired. In this respect, the National Assembly will take responsibility for the functioning of Dars, a shareholder society, and will not have this opportunity to have its own representative in the Supervisory Board. We cannot agree with such solutions in Novi Slovenija, and for this reason we also predict that we will obstruct this decision in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u41	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the New Slovenia Group has also announced obstruction in this decision. I'll wait a minute, and then the National Assembly will move on to a decision. We can decide. We are voting on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Attending 48, 44 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Society for Motorways has been adopted. I'm inviting a colleague to step back into the hall. We're at 10. Dots of the Day - This is when the third defence proposal for a law on cable devices for the transport of persons. The National Assembly is on Wednesday 26. 11. In 2003, the second hearing was held because, in the second reading, amendments were received to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that the law would hold a third hearing on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure at that meeting. Any of the qualified discussers want a word about this? If we don't, we'll move on to a decision. We have before us under number 10 or in the left corner of the above document the number 10 marks the review of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law on cable devices. We have two to Article 35, the first to be tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, and the second to the Slovenian Democratic Party and the New Slovenia. Pardon, also to the first both, i.e., the Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary group both to the first and the second. So we have two, we will decide first under order number 1 to Article 35. Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must say that in New Slovenia, as we have already said at the second reading, we do not agree that we are also applying the possibility of decommissioning procedures in other laws, thus extending this possibility beyond the law on space regulation. The law on the regulation of premises specifies when and for which matters may arise. Therefore, we believe that in this national council, these proposals are somehow always in breach of Article 33 of the Constitution and that laws are adapted to the existing need: it is possible that this is a decommissioning procedure for the construction of telecommunications facilities, this time for skis and the installation of cable devices, once again the same proposal for the construction of golf courses and so on will probably be the same. So, we cannot support such a way of working in New Slovenia. However, since this law is at third reading, we have decided to table two amendments to Article 35 of this Law on cableways. We propose in the first amendment that the end of the second paragraph should be added "the tender for the conclusion of the contract must include the valuation of the sworn appreciater." It seems to us that this is the minimum necessary if there is no concessionaire within 60 days [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] Well, that doesn't mean I can't explain it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u43	Peace in the hall. My colleague Sok is the only one with a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u44	Then, if you support it, I'll cut it short, but I'll say it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u45	Peace. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] My friend Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u46	If you don't mind me, we'll be done in no time. Good. Thus, I have heard from the largest party that they support this because, otherwise, it could of course mean that these offers would have been given without appreciation to the sworn valueholders. Well, there's another amendment. With the second amendment, however, we are trying to correct a kind of illogically accepted dictatorship in paragraph 4 which says that the provisions of the law are adopted on the basis of the application of spatial measures for the implementation of spatial planning. We suggest that this part of the sentence is simply replaced by the words "and the procedures laid down in the law on space regulation." If we write this down, then matters for those who will decide in these proceedings will be clearly and unequivocally recorded, but if they remain as they are in the law, this may constitute misunderstanding in the decision-making process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-28-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u47	Good. Can we decide now? We will first decide on the amendment, which is marked in the review by order number 1 to Article 35. We're voting. Peace in the hall. 61 present, 61, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted unanimously. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We must decide on the second amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 26 in, 32 in. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 32.]] This did not receive the necessary support. I have not informed you that such a text would not be harmonised so that we could move on to a full decision on the law. The National Assembly will now also carry out this final decision in the framework of this meeting. We are voting on the law as a whole. 59 in attendance, 46 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] This law has been adopted, and all the items on the agenda of this very difficult meeting of the National Assembly under the roof, so that I can conclude this meeting and thank you for your great patience. I also thank you for not having done such a good job in the next month, and I inform you that we will have at least two extraordinary sessions and a festive one, so that we will also be working in December more than enough. Thank you so much for your cooperation. Have a nice weekend, everyone, and good-bye to next time.
