ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues! I am particularly pleased to welcome in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the President of the German Bundestag, the German Federal Parliament, our friend Thierse. Yesterday and today we had very frank and friendly conversations. I would like to thank President Thierse here in front of all of you for his willingness to make the German Parliament's experience available to Slovenia, which is important in the preparation of the law on the relationship between the government and parliament, in the light of the adoption of political decisions after Slovenia's entry into the European Union. This is just an additional sign, an illustration of a very good, very friendly relationship, not only between the German and Slovenian people, but also between the German Federal Parliament and Slovenia. We're all looking forward to the speech of the president of the German Bundestag. President Thiersse has your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u2	Mr Pahor, distinguished members of the Slovenian National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great honor to speak before the Slovenian National Assembly today. Your invitation, Sir Pahor, is an expression of close and friendly relations between our two countries and parliaments. We want to continue to deepen these relations, in particular with regard to our common tasks in Europe. I am very pleased that three days ago, such a large majority of the Slovenian nation decided to join your country in the European Union and also NATO. It's a happy date, a happy circumstance that only a few days after this event can I be here among you. This decision is an encouraging sign at a time when Europe, according to many, is in the midst of a deep crisis. The decision of your citizens and citizens clearly shows that, in all the current problems within the European Union, people can properly assess the central importance of the European Union in ensuring peace, the rule of law, social justice and, in particular, peace. On our continent and in the world in general. Maintaining peace, and that reminds us of the events of these days, maintaining peace is and remains the first important task of politics. War is always a defeat of politics. That's what Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said. We deeply regret that all efforts to resolve the Iraqi conflict have not been able to prevent this war. We find this war wrong because in our opinion not all peaceful possibilities for disarming the dictator Saddam Hussein have been exploited. Now it is important that this war end as soon as possible so that the criminal regime of dictator Saddam Hussein ends with as few human lives as possible. Of course, in addition to short-term humanitarian assistance, the great task of restoring Europeans in particular will require much. After all, the establishment of stability, respect for human rights, the building of democratic structures in our neighbouring region is of particular importance to us Europeans. We Europeans are neighbours of the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen! Slovenia has the values of the rule of law peace and parliamentary democracy, especially before the eyes. Even the Slovenian nation can live in independence for 13 years after centuries of terrible oppression. We Germans are aware that the years of occupation by the national socialist regime have left deep wounds. 50 years later, Germany followed your country's path to independence, after 1990 with great interest and with great sympathy. During and after the peaceful revolution for freedom and democracy, people in East Germany needed solidarity and help from Europe. And that's what we got. I come from East Germany alone. That is why, also because of this experience, we have gladly accepted the task of supporting the Central and Eastern European countries on their way to the European Union. We know what it means to consolidate democracy and market order permanently, and we know how difficult and long a transformation can be, which has always failed. Even in East Germany, the difficult process of transformation is still not completed. Slovenia is on its best course. You Europe in cultural and historical terms and, of course, have never left geographically. Whoever visits your country, feels cultural connection, sees that Slovenia is part of our common European history, which has been associated with it for centuries. In doing so, they did not change anything for decades when Slovenia was the Yugoslav Republic of Slovenia. Those who go through the old city of Ljubljana come across the testimony of this cultural history of Europe to an impressive, Renaissance, Baroque building and much more. Before I became a politician, I worked in the field of culture. When I heard about the number of theatres, ballets and opera houses in Slovenia, how this number is increasing, then I want this to set an example for others. Culture is a bond that traditionally connects Europe, this is the bond that has been strengthened for centuries, and this is the vitality of cultural exchange. This also warrants friendship between our countries. Many German-Slovenian partnerships between cities, a multitude of personal meetings between Slovenian and German citizens, and finally the experience of those Slovenians who have worked and lived in Germany for many years, all of this keeps our cultural relations alive. The Republic of Slovenia has become a candidate for accession to the European Union with great commitment and determination for reforms. You will be the first to become the first members of the European Union since 1 May 2004. This was confirmed in the report on the Commission's progress in October 2002 and in the European Council in Copenhagen in December 2002. This path of your country and your citizens and citizens is a grand success story for you and at the same time for all of Europe. There's a referendum, a big consensus. This should also be an example for other candidate countries. European integration is the most important consistency in the bitter experience of World War II. Reconciliation and peaceful coexistence on the European continent can only be achieved through the building of democracy, social justice, solidarity and deepening what we have in common. This sounds easier than it can be in everyday life. The terrible wars in Southeast Europe, in the former Yugoslavia, are something we could not prevent. However, or precisely that is why I am still deeply convinced that, with the European Union, we have taken a path that will ensure lasting peace and freedom for Europe. We must not allow failures to grieve us, nor will we allow ourselves to be sprayed with different opinions. Each Member in this European Union, whether it has been integrated for a long time or is only a candidate, has the right to express its opinion, each Member is a enrichment for the community. The future enlargement of the European Union is the largest European project on post-war security and stability. The European Union will expand by about 100 million new citizens and citizens. Ten Central and Eastern European countries will join the community, for four decades they have been on a completely different path than the Western Europeans, and they have to overcome a very difficult legacy in part. Political and economic development has been different in individual countries since then, and enlargement can therefore be achieved in several steps. These include institutional reforms within the European Union itself. In addition to the measures already taken to allocate the balance of the votes of the Council, the composition of the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Justice, this moment is an important step forward. For a good year, the Convention, composed of representatives of governments and Members from all Member States and candidate countries, is discussing a new Union regulation, a European Constitution. This reform is no longer about European levels of competence, but is about making decisions more democratic, more efficient and closer to citizens. For this is certain, Europe needs the support of citizens and citizens. Their consensus depends on how fast and how well Europe will unite. And reservations, certainly understandable reservations, are present on both sides. For example, long-term members wonder what effect will the free movement of workers have for us, how we can maintain our high environmental standards. And future members wonder how difficult it is just to integrate the gained sovereignty into a larger community, what will be left of our national identity in this Europe, whether others will treat us as small countries. Europe is and must be more than a political and economic strategic project between the big and small, rich and poor, strong and weak countries of Europe. Europe must preserve the richness of cultural and democratic traditions of different countries, allowing for democratic cooperation resulting from them, so that we remain operational at European level. This requires procedures, rules that improve the integration of different social and political actors. European legitimacy and sovereignty are not self-evident, but rely on local, regional or national competences for their participation in shaping the European will. That is why I want more than ever the integration of national parliaments. The formation of the Convention itself is therefore a measure of success. For the first time, national parliaments can participate directly in the creation of European primary law. And that's progress. I also welcome the proposals of the Convention to include national parliaments in future in the monitoring of compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. It would be important for national parliaments to have the opportunity to take a position on the future European Constitution before the conclusion of the Convention's decision. Such national debates are important for public discussion, for perception, for interest, for the involvement of citizens and citizens. I wish such a principle of the Convention to be enforced in the Constitution in the future, because it ensures the involvement of national parliaments in the process of European willmaking. Without the democratic legitimacy of the European Union, bringing Europe together will not be a permanent success. With the same energy, ladies and gentlemen, with the same energy that the Republic of Slovenia has embarked on the European path, your country is working towards membership in NATO. The referendum was also an important decision. At the end of the 1990s, we Germans successfully stood up for the Open Door Klausl, which leaves the door open for the new members. We will continue to support you. The integration of Slovenia into the European Union and the transatlantic structure is also in the common European interest. Your country has been and is a factor of stability in the region, which is partly from a difficult post-war period to democratic structures. The Republic of Slovenia has the necessary bridge function in this region. This international respect has also become clear when your country is elected as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. In recent weeks and months, we have been clearly shown how important it is to strengthen international institutions in order to resolve future political conflicts exclusively through peaceful means. This is a fundamental experience in Europe. Our continent was a long-standing continent of wars, the worst in the 20th century, with two world wars for which Germany is responsible. From these centuries of long experience, in particular from the experience of the first half of the 20th century, it is necessary to draw up consistency and establish a policy of agreements of interest to the balance of cooperation. This is a positive experience in Europe. This experience, the memory of the wars and the success of the cooperation policy, this dual experience can serve as an artificial basis for Europe's so important external and security identity. For this future, Germany and Slovenia share a shared responsibility. The German Bundestag and the Slovenian National Assembly want to continue building and deepening this goal in good cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much to President Thierse of the Bundestag for speaking before the National Assembly. On behalf of all your colleagues and colleagues, President Thierse, I wish you a pleasant stay on your official visit to Slovenia and a happy return home with the best of impressions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will continue with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So I begin the 24th meeting and first inform you that the following Members have been detained from today's meeting: Bogdan Barovič, Roberto Battelli, Franc Čebulj, Marko Diaci, Geza Juban, Andrej Fabjan, Ferry Horvat, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Branko Kelemina from 13 p.m., Dorian Maršič and Cveta Zalokar Orazem from 12 p.m. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. At this point, I do not yet see the government representatives to give them the floor, and I will wait for the government representatives to join us for a moment. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry, Food as the working body of the mother. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mag. Janez Kramberger to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, I would like to summarize the report published in Rapporteur No. 19, 17 March 2003, report on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Lands. The updated proposal tabled by the Government was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food at its 38th meeting, on 6 March, as the working body of the mother. The College of the National Assembly has decided that this law will be dealt with in a simplified manner. The Constitutional Court has repealed the whole of Chapter 3 and the Government has therefore drawn up a new text of Chapter 3. It was a one-year deadline, and at that time the government also prepared this text. The National Assembly also called on local communities to define themselves before this law. This was answered by the municipality of Dobrepolje, the municipality of Trbovlje, the community of Slovene municipalities and the municipality of Novo mesto. There was no first examination of the law. The Committee considered the law in second reading. For the second reading, the amendments were submitted by colleague Alojz Sok, colleague of Lydia Majnik and colleague of Franz Sušnik. After a very gruesome and long debate, the Committee supported the proposal for a law proposed by the Government and you can also see this complementary text in the rapporteur's report. I would only draw attention to the part of this debate, which took place at the most in Article 23, which is under Article 1 of the amendments to the Act, on the priority order of purchase of agricultural land. Here, the Committee on Agriculture has somehow divided into two parts, namely advocates of companies and advocates of family farms. Finally, the amendments, which were in this direction towards the shareholders, were not adopted. The government's proposal was confirmed. I think it will be an opportunity to discuss this later in the debate. In short, it was also because of how someone reads a Constitutional Court decision or whether the Constitutional Court repealed the law to ensure that it was not equal, so one argued that there was no equal right to purchase an agricultural land and, on the other hand, it was also cited in the Constitutional Court decision that it was the legislator's task of defining it as a priority order. It was also said that the 1993 strategy for the development of Slovenian agriculture defines the family farm as a carrier of agricultural activities and therefore proposes such order as in Article 23. It is unfortunate, however, that the same order of priority for the purchase of agricultural land is also applicable to the purchase. While the Committee has discussed this, this provision is set out in IV. the chapter of this Article, in Article 27, could not be defined by the Committee. So, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to conclude the report of the Agriculture Committee. The Committee has prepared an additional part of the bill and you can read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee. In the meantime, they joined us as magicians. Franci Booth, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Secretary of State Franc Potočnik. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Government is proposing to adopt a law amending and supplementing the agricultural land law, in particular by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has repealed, as has already been said, the chapter of the law relating to trade in agricultural land. The repeal shall take effect on 28.3.2003, that is, within a few days. The repeal relates to the whole chapter, although all the provisions of this Chapter were not incompatible with the Constitution, but only some. Therefore, the government is proposing a law on amendments and additions to the agricultural land law, which primarily proposes some solutions that, according to our assessment, eliminate non-compliance. The proposal retains the current procedure and mode of transport with agricultural land, forests and farms. Transport is still approved by the administrative unit in accordance with the procedure and manner and under the conditions laid down in the law. It is very important that the law preserves the institution of pre-emptive rights, which ensures that they have priority in the acquisition of agricultural land, property and leases, farmers which are economically and socially dependent on these lands. It is very important that this preliminary right is maintained or regulated, for we know that freedom of the real estate market is already in force. This pre-emptive right also means that, in accordance with the European legal order, the only form and way of protecting the agricultural land at all, because without it there is complete freedom and anyone who is a citizen of any of the European Union without having any other pre-emptive right. By assessing that this is an important element and this element certainly has an important weight. I might also say here that it is true that a certain lack of harmony or indiscretion is noted, since the law does not interfere with the second chapter, between the purchase and the purchase. The proposaler's wish, this is the government, is to arrange the purchase and sale in this way, but to regulate the lease in the way that all democratic society knows. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, the government will immediately propose an amendment to the part relating to the lease arrangements. With the proposed amendment to the Law, the municipality is no longer a pre-purchase beneficiary because, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Regulation of Space and the Law on the Conservation of Nature, the preliminary priority of the municipality's pre-emptive rights for agricultural land in areas designated or intended for planting and protection areas is regulated by that legislation. In short, the law also sets out solutions that prevent the sharing of protected farms and many other things that will be discussed in individual proceedings. We propose or propose, on behalf of the Government, that the National Assembly adopt the proposed amendments and amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, including amendments to the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, supported by the Government. The law must be adopted, or the agricultural land market will be released without any restrictions. There will be a perfect legal void. If the law is not adopted and a new law is drawn up immediately, even without the regulation of this chapter, which we must amend for the sake of the Constitutional Court, there will be a emptiness of several months. In this several-month legal void, all procedures that are not in the interest of this country, which are not in the interest of what our common land policy objectives are, can practically be carried out legally. What could not be done over the years and years, given that certain protection was in force in the priority order of purchase, could also happen in the legalisation of many, perhaps already made or desired purchases by non-nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, allows for the liberalisation of the real estate market, which has been in force since February of this year. We assess and assess that it is right to adopt this proposed amendment law by immediately adapting to a new law that will regulate the area of lease in a way that will not, if you want to, liquidate former state estates, the current shareholdings, which are also under the agricultural law of the agricultural holding, and, according to the Government's assessment, would in fact allow family farms and share companies to lose significantly more control over the traffic with agricultural land than it allows the way proposed by the government to do so. For the government considers that it is a national interest that, in the order of priority, land can be sold to someone who is a slightly more stable owner. A share company, we know that it is indisputable in this property of the capital property speech. We know a number of cases where agricultural economies will be sold to capital owners outside of Slovenia, which in its own way is nothing wrong. It is more questionable, however, if, in a preferred way, new capital owners from other European Union countries or elsewhere could buy land and thus, for example, at least one of the Slovenian municipalities, say, the largest municipality in Slovenia or the second largest-Kočev, would be practically suddenly owned by a large majority of Slovenes, i.e. the land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr Anderlič, as you have been reported for the debate, you will be following the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups and first I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič, who is cancelling. [[...]] Aloys Sok is not present. Janko Weber, position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all, of course, to the minister! The position of the United Nations Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Lands Act is mainly based on the findings that the proposal for a law is flawed, particularly in this sense, because it does not resolve the relationship between purchase and sale and, of course, also on leasing. We have also warned about this in the debate and in the coordination process, but it has insisted that the law as it is prepared goes forward in the procedure. This is one of the very important issues which, of course, is a key intervention in agricultural policy, mainly in the way of trying to increase family farms on land owned by the state, and, of course, suspends agricultural enterprises and, of course, leaves Slovenia without an important resource, which is certainly paid by these companies in the state budget, in addition to the additional burden of the state budget, as there will be an even greater unemployment. This disharmony is what raises a lot of questions in this regard, and we do not see a solution in the content of the law currently before us. We are also opinions, not just opinions, but the facts are that the agricultural land market in Slovenia does not work, that these solutions proposed by the proposer are almost identical to those we already have today, but we find that the agricultural land market does not work. As far as the limits are concerned. One is the order, the priority order of purchase, and there is still a whole range of other measures that also affect whether or not the agricultural land market works. Therefore, of course, it is very important to ask whether it is in the interest of Slovenia to establish a good agricultural land market and to start increasing farms, especially in those areas where the land is most fragmented. At this point, the law provides, let's take complexes owned by the state, and give it to the family farms. It does not, however, touch on the issue, which is in fact the most pressing, the problems of small farms, the problems of fragmented land in private ownership, but which is still at great stake, so transport with these lands is under great question. The fact is that this traffic is possible if the price of land does not differ significantly from the reference prices established under the official methodology. This is also one of those fuses that certainly has a significant impact on whether or not agricultural land is being transported. As for state land, we all know that if the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia does not place the State land on the market, then the sale of this land does not take place. Thus, there is an enormous number of safeguards in our legislation regarding the transport of agricultural land. As a matter of fact, the priority line is not intended as proposed to solve this problem or to speed up this traffic, but it leads again to an even greater unemployment and even greater burden on the state budget in Slovenia. That is why, in our view, the direction of agricultural policy must be such, even in the field of agricultural land, that even small farmers can see their essence if they are not already in the agricultural field and own the piece of land they own, to the extent that they are able to employ rural areas. Agricultural companies are certainly one of those giving this opportunity. This law would also take this option, which means that the private land market would deteriorate further. This is a whole series of unresolved issues that this law should really solve. The fact is that in Slovenia we also actually have an agricultural land fund which, if it finds that an agricultural company is in such a bad situation that it cannot successfully operate state land, suggests bankruptcy of that company and solves the problem, but does not. In order to avoid these problems, we will vote against the law in the United Nations Group of Members. In order to accelerate the process itself, we will also prepare the withdrawal of our amendment and we will support the amendment of the first signed colleague of Lydia Majnik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you. The position of the SLS Group will be given by Master Janez Kramberger or colleague Franci Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister, members of the Government. We will support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group's amendment and the addition of the Agricultural Lands Act. We believe that the time is running out and that the National Assembly is actually ahead of a very important decision on 28 March when the one-year deadline given by the Constitutional Court to the legislator to bring this chapter of agricultural transport into line with the Constitutional Court's decision is due. That is why, of course, we will support all the amendments formulated by the Committee in the parliamentary group. Of course, we are prepared to settle and agree on the issue of an equal priority order for all participants in both agricultural organisations, businesses and farmers in the purchase of agricultural land after the adoption of this law, because, of course, we are also being pursued here on 28 March. Now let me focus mainly on the issue of priority order. It is a misleading claim that the Constitutional Court has determined that the priority order does not follow the way it was in the previous law. In fact, in Article 36, the Constitutional Court explicitly stated in its 36th paragraph, and I will now quote the 36th paragraph of the Constitutional Court's decision: "These organisations are still priority beneficiaries, they are on the list of priority beneficiaries, in the general interest of strengthening and rounding up the medium-sized family farms, the legislator has clearly found sufficient grounds to determine before the Fund the priority of the farmer's entitlement to the border or to the nearest farmer, but not to the agricultural organisation. The 23rd and 40th paragraphs of this explanation also discuss the compatibility of the priority right in general with the Constitution." I will not read the entire decision of the Constitutional Court, but the legislator also identified this priority order on the basis of the adopted resolution on the development of agriculture in 1993, where he defined the family farm as a basic unit in particular. In fact, our own structure has grown by only 10% in the last ten years. This must be very disturbing information. Today we talk a lot about how small our farms are. However, we are convinced that ten years ago there was a substantial lack of movement towards ensuring the larger size of our farms, so to speak, of family farms. If the country were to intervene more radically at that time, it would certainly be easier for Slovenian agriculture today and would be more prepared for a more equal performance and competition with European farmers. According to our assessment, there are even fewer reasons to try to make this big precedent at this time and to make it possible because we know who currently has money in our country: much more money has agricultural organisations than farmers have to buy agricultural land. The amendment, as proposed by colleague Majnikov, would in fact further strengthen the monopoly in this area and prevent an increase in the ownership structure and rounding up of family farms. It is said that a drastic departure from the adopted resolution on the development of agriculture in the National Assembly. So if this is a political decision, then the resolution on the development of agriculture must be amended first, and then, on the basis of this, the guidelines in the legislative proposals should be changed. We therefore appeal to all Members and Members in the Group not to accept such a proposal. And as we can see, the government also does not support this proposal, opposes it, probably because of similar arguments. Otherwise, we would also comment on other amendments, in particular the provision on the 20km belt. However we will define ourselves, it must be made clear that this 20km belt means actually a greater possibility of rounding up farms and, moreover, a very important protection element of the country and of national interest. And to conclude, in short, mainly with this item. According to the assessment of our parliamentary group, the shareholder company is a significantly less reliable unit to keep the agricultural land in Slovenian ownership. That is why we will support the amendments of the Government and the Committee in the parliamentary group. Above all, we wonder who will take responsibility in the National Assembly for the rejection of this law or for the legal void after March 28. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you. The word is Anton Anderlich, LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u13	Your Honor! We are considering the law because of the Constitutional Court's decision and, unfortunately, after lengthy preparation and so-called missed opportunities, so that the law can be made to meet both the requirements of the Constitutional Court and the needs in the field of land policy in the Republic of Slovenia in particular. Decisions or proposals in marriage are inconvenient and are not substantive. Thus, it is not the substance imposed by the Constitutional Court, nor does it follow any particular land policy that would dictate that those involved in agriculture be given access to those who are limiters, to those who want to increase their parcels. After all, this is also the Government's proposal by a new regulation that subsidies or direct payments should now be granted only from 0,20, not 0,10. This means that, and this has already been said in this debate this week, the law is, in fact, contrary to government policy. If there is no advantage as a second tenant or as a second limiter, of course there is something wrong with the relationship, the resolution, the country's objectives with regard to land policy and this law. What the proponents were after, I don't know. They may have had in mind specific solutions, specific leases, specific operations and so on. I was terribly disappointed and sad when the minister declared today that shareholders were unstable owners. This is a case that doesn't belong here, and this discourse was wrong. We've decided a long time ago, this country, what kind of economy it will have. Shareholders are an important component of this economic system. Therefore, it is not possible to use all the arguments in order to justify some of its proposals. Since it is also impossible to bring the reduced procedure into the Fund in this way, it is also impossible to bring into a proportionate way an article dealing with agricultural land transport and an article talking about leasing, on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party has also been adopted on our side of the proposal, and we will support it that this law is rejected and that it is immediately prepared by another party to regulate both land transport and lease. This was a one-stop deal, and we will reject the law for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25 March 2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and Article 10 of the amendments to this Article. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mrs. Lydia Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. If the drafter of the Act were to submit to the procedure in accordance with the decision of the Committee on Agriculture by October 2002, this so-called difficult and sensitive topic would not have to be dealt with in time and after a reduced procedure. Many initiatives for constitutional review and a number of decisions by the Constitutional Court on this issue also testify to this issue. The Constitutional Court is the former Law on Agricultural Lands by Decision No. 184/94 repealed completely. Among the fundamental reasons for repealing the provisions of Article 71(2) of the Constitution, the chapter on agricultural land transport and their rental was precisely a chapter on the grounds that property is regulated in a disproportionately stricter manner than the measures necessary to protect agricultural land. The new law also appealed to the Constitutional Court, again the chapter on transport with agricultural land. Compared to the contents of the already repealed law and the proposal for a review of the chapter in the new law, the Constitutional Court then found that the new regulation of the legal traffic chapter clearly showed that the new regime had not reduced the restrictions on the sale of agricultural land but had imposed new substantive restrictions in the process and in the contents. The proposed law then insisted before the Constitutional Court only on the repetition of the principle of the position that, in view of the objectives of agricultural development policy, legal transport with agricultural land should also be limited, inter alia. The Constitutional Court then ruled, paragraph 18 of the Constitutional Court’s decision 266/98, that the agricultural development policy should be implemented by the State in the first place and mainly by activities, measures and means financed or provided by it itself. The legal system regulates this area now, the Agriculture Act, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 54/2000. Although the order of the pre-accession beneficiaries was not assessed by the Constitutional Court on this occasion, it was stated that the pre-emptive right significantly narrows the possession of property, which is one of its fundamental content. In order to ensure a preliminary right, it is necessary to weigh the eligibility much more strictly and thereby the constitutionality of additional restrictions. Therefore, the provisions we now have in the 19th paragraph of the new Article are once again in breach of the Constitutional Court's decision on a free economic initiative. The assumption that trade in agricultural land is constitutionally acceptable and permissible only when there is no concern in terms of agricultural development policy is clearly wrong in the Constitutional Court's view. And why, in my view, the order of the preliminary beneficiaries should be regulated as I propose together with the co-signatory of the amendment. Firstly, since the law in question is in force in its next chapter, which has not been repealed, in the first paragraph of Article 27, I quote 'the provisions of Articles 19 to 24 of this Act shall also apply mutatis mutandis to the lease'. So, the order of buyers and tenants is the same. If I quote Mrs Tsuk, the Fund has no rules in place for the allocation of land for leasing. The Law on Agricultural Lands clearly defines the priority order and we stick to it." The quotation is from the magnetogram of the meeting of the Agriculture Committee of 3.7.2002. Secondly, on agricultural undertakings and their rights, the Constitutional Court also ruled in the case of a constitutional review of the law on the property transformation of enterprises, where the number 77/93 of 6.7.1995 stated in its decision that the law did not prevent the use and exploitation of land to the companies it used for agricultural production, as the company continues to apply it directly under the law. The Constitutional Court also stated in the same decision: "Although it becomes a landowner state, the latter still remains in use of the company. The legislator prescribed to the State the following restrictions on its ownership rights." That companies have the right to continue using transferred land, that the fund, as manager and land owner, is obliged to conclude with the previous lease managers, if the latter so wish, that the fund must grant them a concession and that the lease takes into account the purchase of the purchased land by making purchases and leases or compensation for the concession. Thirdly, if the laws of the Constitutional Decision and the Constitution are not sufficiently strong enough to support this amendment, I should like to mention some other information. According to the data that we can understand from the introduction to the law in question and are unfortunately quite outdated, since they relate to 1997, there were 90 611 farms in Slovenia that controlled 94% of all agricultural land and contributed two thirds of gross agricultural production. They owned an average of 9.4 hectares of land, and used only 4.8 hectares per farm. The difference of 4.6 hectares is great and we can explain it in a variety of ways and manipulate it because we do not have the right data. It is possible to account for recovery, as according to some other data available in Slovenia in 2000, only 508,000 hectares of agricultural land were used, from a total of approximately 770 000. Despite repeated calls, we have not yet been able to know how much land is owned by the State and by the Fund. It is only known that despite the laws adopted in Slovenia, despite the policies adopted, despite the establishment of a fund of agricultural land and forests to care for agriculture, structural policy and farm enlargement, we have managed to increase the average Slovenian farm for fighting 10% in the last ten years. It is thus four times smaller than the equivalent in the European Union, where we enter in one year. The government, however, opposed my amendment to the following explanation. Because it is contrary to the objective of this law, which is to round up and increase farms, in order to ensure rural settlement, farmland treatment and cultural landscape maintenance. Although I can agree with the government in the first statement, there is no way in the others. The agricultural land leased by agricultural companies is by no means in the healing process. 5% of Slovenian agricultural land, 35,000 hectares of our land, is owned by 90 agricultural enterprises. 30 companies deal exclusively with agricultural activities and create as much as one third of the food security of Slovenia and employs 3,200 workers. If we include workers in other agricultural companies and all their family members, we will reach an extremely large number of people, all of them. The whole country of businesses is being leased because the property transformation law has been maintained. Therefore, if we do not place agricultural organisations in the right place of pre-purchase beneficiaries, and thus ensure an appropriate balance between private and public interest, since, as previously said, the order of pre-purchase beneficiaries is also the order of lease, we will today receive the collapse of these companies. Following the expiry of the current leases, the Fund will offer all land on a public invitation to tender for purchase or repurchase, but will, of course, follow the agreed order laid down in the law. Some contracts expire in two years. Therefore, I appeal to you Members and Members of Parliament to support the amendment. It is true that we have two categories of tenants in the area of renters, these are agricultural companies and individuals. I propose that in the law that the government will prepare at the shortest possible time, this difference is also taken into account and otherwise dealt with by the tenants of individuals and renters of the company. As has already been said, our parliamentary group will reject the law. We propose, however, that the drafter of the law take into account in the debate the objections expressed to the drafting of the law, as advocated by it so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Who wants to discuss the amendments next? Yeah, the replica's allowed, normal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. Look, Mrs Majnikov, you have just mentioned that two years from now, the first leases will expire for agricultural companies. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I said earlier that immediately after this urgent intervention, for which it is necessary to be prepared by the legislator on the decision of the Constitutional Court, we are prepared in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to regulate the chapter also on a naturally equal basis both to agricultural organisations, businesses and farms. In fact, I now ask myself explicitly whether this is then the proposal that the Group of Members, both the LDS and the United List, will reject this solution in the chapter on the diameter of agricultural land, truly sincerely. Actually, we've got two years of time, and I think we can sort this out a little bit sooner. To regulate the chapter of the lease and also to resolve these issues, as you have just said in your implementation about the status of workers and agricultural organisations. But if we say no to the law, then we leave the matter to "free hunting." Anyone who can have money will be able to buy farm land in this country. Is this a responsible move by the legislator or also an approach to a genuine agricultural land policy? Step back. Therefore, I think it is necessary to think carefully about what our decision will be in the evening, when we will also vote on both the amendments and the whole bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Franci Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. If I may not have had the right legislator, I apologize, the real bill-maker - the government was not even meant to propose to the national assembly any abolition of the agricultural holdings organised as shareholders or d.o.o., or anything else that is not a family farm. [[...]] Absolutely, absolutely not. This is really about misinterpretation. And if you allow me, given that the essence of everything is also the discussion of Mrs Majnik, who expresses this fear - this fear of course does not exist. Since, on the basis of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests - on the basis of the law - I stress that tenants or former tenants have the right to conclude a lease agreement. And of course they did, based on the law. However, on the basis of Article 31 of the Agricultural Lands Act, which we are considering, it is stated that the leasing contract shall be renewed for the original agreed period if no party in writing terminates the contract at least six months before the expiry of the contract. See, if I may, this bill is by the proposer, that is, the government, primarily meant in terms of regulating the lease, I apologize, selling and buying, because we assess that certain restrictions allowed by the European acquis are meaningful and useful. And when we were thinking about how to implement these restrictions, which essentially mean a priority order, we were thinking that property is above capital - if I was misinterpreted, I apologize deeply - property over capital is a more changing matter. Property over capital can change monthly or even more frequently, of course, may change for a year, two, three, because someone buys and sells shares. And because we are proposing to the National Assembly a slightly more conservative approach, which seems to us to be when selling or purchasing agricultural land, it is absolutely clear that if someone has invested agricultural activity and not the agricultural economy, if it is a farm or d.d., it is of course in the interest of the State to produce food and process land. However, if a country or anyone else decides to sell land, we think we have the right to do so, in fact, it is prudent and reasonable to approach it more conservatively. That where ownership of land is indirectly linked to ownership of capital, this is lower in companies, but such possible purchases are placed on the priority order. This is a proposal of this, because, otherwise, it may happen that, for example, it is entirely justified and logical for someone to buy and sell shares, thus changing the ownership structure, simply by means of this indirect land can in fact be proportional to significantly less control - if I say so in terms of "movement" from one to another ownership, such as in the family farm, which the country has defined years ago as some targeted desired form. This does not mean, however, that limited liability cooperatives, or cooperatives, are not as desirable or fully acceptable as farming. However, the applicant here had in mind sales and purchases, i.e. ownership of the land. On the other hand, it is clear that I am ensuring that we approach the amendment of the law if this law is adopted, which will also further regulate the lease in that chapter which is not affected by this law. However, there should be approximately an opportunity for equal treatment, so that it is possible and possible to make use of the substantial longer periods for which the land is leased, to also regulate the relevance of investment investments and anything related thereto. So I would really ask here not to be obvious to the proposer, this is the government or the ministry which has proposed solutions to the government that it wants to abolish jobs or that it wants to abolish the agricultural economies that are participating societies, because it is not. The aim and desire is to make it a little more conservative and I hope to say it publicly, precisely in that word, to approach the sale and purchase of agricultural land, which are some nation's wealth - at least I hope they are. It is probably everyone's wish that if someone as a shareholder manages to farm on some land, he can grow 100 years, or even more if he succeeds, but whether this land is sold to him in a high or lower order of priority, our proposal is, of course, the same as it is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you, Minister. I repeat my word to Mrs Lidija Majnik and then to Ivan Krambeger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u21	Mr Minister, when there is a possibility that a certain article may be interpreted differently, it doesn't matter what anyone thought, but what you understand from it and how it is read, how it is understood, and how it is read, and I think it's most wrong to have a mandatory explanation of what the lawmaker meant by what he wrote. It's the worst of options. I have quoted Mrs Tzukova and her words earlier to follow the order set out in the law. I also said that some contracts will expire in two years. It follows from this order, if adopted today, that at least KŽK Kranj will be abolished, if not by other companies. KŽK Kranj has warned us that they cannot compete with certain funds because, despite their desire to extend the leases, they do not sign. Since they have not been signed for more than five years, they cannot compete for certain funds. Mr Minister, we have been in a meeting with the Director of the Ptuj cluster, who has appealed to you to adopt such an amendment to allow the investment cycle of the PP cluster, which are before they start investing in the agricultural machinery. If matters are not crystal clearly resolved, they will have to choose a different strategy. That is how I think it is justified to fear the Chamber of Economics, which calls for priority to be given to agricultural organisations that employ so many and so many workers. And since there is no guarantee in the current bill, I propose that the Ministry prepare a new law and that we do not accept it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u22	Mag. Kramberger, and then I give my word again to the Minister for Explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The issue of agricultural land and this type of problem has undoubtedly been pressing and since I've been in this house, even those three, two and a half years since we reached our country and the previous mandate, and now, we've been dealing with these issues all the time when we can't clear up what we want. Part of this political cliff, which is being advocated here, is one part, it is said, of the shareholders who were something else before, the other part that we are increasingly lonely, and obviously what the National Assembly adopted in 1993 - the family farm. So it saddens me that we cannot take a step forward and put our agriculture in line, indeed, so that it can become European comparable. In the negotiating process, the negotiating group, the ministry and the government have achieved that in 2007 we will be able to move equally to the threshold of the present fifteen with the same conditions, which is why we all agreed here. For ten years, however, we cannot come to such an opinion that we can turn this system around in our heads so that we can no longer think of the Slovenian farmer as the enemy of this society. That makes me sad. I am deeply convinced that when I also read the explanation that he gave here, he mentions quite a few European countries, how they have a regulated agricultural policy, land policy. Here we can see that all countries regulate it in a very delicate way and even have the maximum. France, a country with an agricultural land expanse, has a maximum. We and our Constitutional Court have found that in this fragmented Slovenian agriculture we should no longer have the maximum. Let's just say that, at the end of the day, one farm, one stock company that she's going to buy, I don't know which one I'm saying has all 35,000 agricultural land if you want. That could happen, I'm warning you. We need to separate the purchase and the lease. I stress that it is necessary to separate this, and it is not possible to do so now. That is not possible, and that is why my proposal, a very sincere proposal for coordination when we sat down and I asked my colleagues, my colleague Miran is sitting here, has heard that when we weigh whether we should accept the amendment tabled by colleague Weber or colleague Majnik, it is better that the law falls. This was my proposal because there is no way that we could regulate the lease in this bill because the lease is regulated in IV. a chapter that we do not open. This was the purpose of this and this was the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. Of course, after we continued thinking, we found that a legal void would arise. This law will cease to apply on 28th this month, and there will be a legal void. Colleagues and colleagues, I am going to make a personal effort as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, as long as I am in this position to request, I do not know if, of course, I will get to demand all the legal transactions that will be concluded at this time. I hope someone will also publish them because, as they now publish direct payments, these sounding shows on Slovenian TV when they compare a 100-hectare farm with one working family, with one unemployed and one poor worker's salary. It's all in this context that a farmer is something we don't need after all. That's how this whole thing looks now. I don't know, colleagues and colleagues, why we're afraid of a farmer. I submit that it was also in the way the agricultural land was leased and possibly in these subsidies - that irregularities are taking place. But these irregularities need to be sanctioned and eliminated. But we now put matters in general and must not let the priority order for the purchase of agricultural land be the one proposed by colleague Lydia Majnikov. However, I argue that it is necessary to arrange for the lease of agricultural land in such a way as to ensure that all agricultural operators, both shareholders and independent entrepreneurs and farmers, are equal in purchasing agricultural land. Equally on the lease, I'm sorry. Equal rights! Because we haven't been in ten or more years. And it is true that we have decided to have this priority lease for these ten years or whatever it is, but from now on we have to put them here in one kind. Isn't that right? So, how will it be voted this afternoon, we'll see. I am very honest and I propose that we accept this government proposal as far as the purchase of agricultural land is concerned, and that we arrange the lease as soon as possible. We must not allow ourselves as legislators to create a legal void. It's our responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you. There's only two things I'd like to explain. The land did not result in any agricultural economy that was defined as a non-family farm in Slovenia. If they were trouble, they were somewhere else. If there are difficulties in hiring or obtaining documents from Sapard and so on, these are things that can be arranged in a way that will only regulate the relevant lease or anything else, if it is indeed a stable investment and there are no obstacles and there will be no obstacles. Thus, I would not have repeated everything else earlier about the separation between buying and leasing, since the basic purpose had already been stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lidija Majnik again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u27	I would like to avoid qualifications for someone to defend; because my colleague, the chairman of the committee, knows very well where I come from and what the roots are. Let me tell everyone else that my family is a farmer's hand and that my entire family has been working and still working on agriculture. I wouldn't want anyone to make me an enemy of farmers. Once again, however, agricultural companies own only 5% of Slovenian land. It's true that this is one of the best, but 5%. We do not have only 5% of the best land in Slovenia. If we had the information that we asked the Agriculture Committee on several occasions, what is the size of the land that the fund has, where it surrounds the farms, how many hectares it surrounds, what areas it leases, it would be easier to talk. Now, Minister, all we can do is manipulate. I am simply coming from data that is known and published, and this is that companies have 5% of the land of 770,000 hectares of working areas in Slovenia. If 200,000 have been healed at this time, this is probably the responsibility of the fund we have for ten years because it has not been able to lead the real land policy. Don't convince me we'll be able to save the family farm at the expense of 5% of this land! I just can't believe it! Since family farms such as we have set up in the land policy and agricultural development strategy, we are likely to have enough surfaces to implement the strategy. But if we have not been able to do so in ten years, then we will have to lean on another end because we have the basis. Not to say that after ten years of renting for agricultural organisations will be over, but now we will save our strategy, which was set up ten years ago! Not with 35,000 acres!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u28	Well, I'll allow the replica, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u29	Excuse me! Once again, I would like to point out that the purpose of the proposed law is to arrange the sale and purchase, and nothing else. No one's taking away the land that they're processing. If, however, a country or anyone else in that country decides to sell land, we would like to suggest that the priority buyer is the one proposed in the law, that is to say, which land is held or is a tenant as a family farm, because we are proposing a slightly more conservative approach, because otherwise we are confident that ownership over land will change over the most quality land after a rapid procedure - than the ownership of shares in a share society will change. Stock companies will remain, are and will remain, and will likely be very successful and will be linked to farms, but please: we are talking about the sale of agricultural land, where, indeed, in the context of entry into the European Union at all, the opening of the real estate market poses a significant number of risks, in fact, along with the opportunities of these new times, it is clear that in this way we are proposing a slightly more conservative turnover in the purchase and sale of agricultural land rather than renting and leasing. This is a matter that needs to be addressed immediately, and this will also be proposed immediately in the coming weeks to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. The applicant knew exactly what the agricultural land law had been adopted in 1996. III. Chapter deals with sales and purchases of land, IV. the chapter deals with the rental of agricultural land, and in IV. The chapter makes it very clear: "The provisions of Articles 19 to 24 of this Law shall also apply mutatis mutandis to the lease." So it's a direct link between all three categories, that's what we knew. We also pointed out this about a year ago on the Agriculture Committee. In fact, at the last minute, the proposal came with the amendment of the law, although we expected it to be substantially, substantially earlier, and all these issues could be cleared up. The fact is that today there is an amendment on the table and in the form of an amendment, let us adopt the amendment, adopt the law, and then we can sit down, there are no legal voids, and prepare a new law that will save purchase and lease. So that there will be a clear difference between the two categories and that, of course, we will also be able to reconcile some different positions. It's also one of the options, and today, I'd say, we could use it. I would point out, however, that these warnings have not been responded to, and this is the result of what we are discussing today and what decision we are ahead of. So obvious that someone will create a legal void and so on, is not applicable - or not only can they accept part of this national assembly, but this is especially true in the sense that the applicant has not followed the warnings of the legislative body and the consequences today are reflected in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you. John Sponik has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u33	The Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to take part in this debate and in the first article and the many amendments that have been tabled. I appreciate that this issue is very important. I myself would support the solution to solve both the issue of buying and rent by amending the law. But, of course, that any decision would not create legal voids to go consciously into a legal void. As a Member, I will vote against such a solution. I think it would be irresponsible for us to go in the direction of a legal void today. Then it will be our responsibility. However, as regards the principle question, this is the substantive issue of agricultural development policy, especially land policy, but it is absolutely clear here. The Slovenian People's Party here is consistent in its programming positions. It will soon be 15 years ago, when we wrote in our programmes that the basic core of rural development and agricultural development is the family farm for the development of this segment of the Slovenian economy. That's what we believe. That's why we fight. And here we are conceptually different from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are different. And we want to face you on the political scene and face you. We claim you're wrong. This concept is enshrined in a core project, a core document that is valid. We must not accept any solutions, no legal solutions that would affect this concept. We can't cut into it. That's irresponsible. There is always interest in Parliament, too, in lobbying. Of course, they're lobbying companies and agricultural companies, lobbying from day to day, including my colleagues. But we told them, "Sorry, we can't support you, we can't support you, we have to go after the goal that we told him that the family farm is the foundation in this area." We may not have been fully consistent, for whenever we fought on these issues, we were lonely in the national assembly. However, many of you are legitimate - whether you have a clear conscience, your question - has been particularly advocated by the interests of agricultural companies and companies. It's a classic lobbyist approach. All parliaments also act on the principle of lobbying, all of them. But the National Assembly is a place in which the family farm and its concept should be placed at the heart of the city, and so far we have not changed this concept, the coalition treaty has not changed it, the EU negotiations have not changed it, and we insist on this and we want to say publicly that we will then continue to fight. No solution that goes against this concept shall receive a majority in this national assembly. If this happens, it is firstly necessary to amend the basic documents setting out agricultural development policy and in particular the issue of land policy in Slovenia. Of course we're gonna lose the battle! If we vote, we lose. The SLS in the coalition always loses when it votes, even if it's right. That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you. A quiet run wanted a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Sponik, there are only three things I'd like to say. We will be responsible for the possible legal void at least in this national assembly and ministry. The ministry, which was late, came too late with a proposal. So not just to tell us that we have concerns about content. Also, tell the Ministry, and how the proposal came about, the Constitutional Court's decision has been known for a long time. Secondly, do not report that we are lobbying for just one area. If that were true, we would not clearly say from all the statements that we are prepared to deal with the issue of sales and the question of rent separately. To regulate special rights for sale to farmers only and exclusively, so that they can also provide for farmers of the economy and the family farm, while on the subject of the lease. Who didn't come with a complete set-up? The government. The government did not come up with proposals for comprehensive regulation, but wanted to settle only and solely the issue of ownership for farmers, everything else remained unregulated. So, at this point, it is not possible to report to the National Assembly that there was no willingness to do so. The only thing we can talk about is trust. That's right, that's right. But from these, in particular point 2, talk about trust if the ministry did not come up with an appropriate proposal, it knew, and today it claims that it should and that it wants to deal in a different way with the issue of economies and the question of agricultural ownership - why this has not already been settled. We've known this problem for a long time! If I'd been settled by now, things would be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you. I give the word to Anton Anderlich and then to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u37	In view of what I have already said in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members, I regret that Mr Sponik was not here at the time. However, you should know that Mr Kramberger, on their behalf, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, has come up with a proposal that we have accepted and will support today. All the other things who want to compete here and so forth have no other connection. If what he just said was a family farm, then surely the proposal in the second paragraph of Article 23 would not have been made by favouring the tenants, farmers who can be 30 or more kilometres away, but not bordering; for, gentlemen, please, here is your inconsistencies or something else. In fact, if I understand correctly - and I hope - that the farms are built so that the farmer has been able to have plots and land in the right distance for centuries. And among these plots are the parcels of the agricultural land fund or the state land, not those of the farmers that are at this distance, but also those of the others. How will you increase your family farm if you give these farmers that already own a suitable distance and do not give them the right to buy this land, whether it is state-owned, let it be private, but give it to the renter, who can be from anywhere. So, your thesis falls here. Please, I've convinced you. I don't know how long you haven't accepted. I've accepted that this is going on, as agreed. And from the moment you yourself realized that it would make sense for the 23rd article to talk about traffic, and for the article to talk about renting to unify in such a way that those criteria were designed to satisfy one and the other things. That's all that was our purpose, and not here are the big stories, who fights for such or other ideals. I submit, however, that it is clear from the proposal of the law that those who proposed such a proposal had no first concern for the family farm and for land policy, which is one of the basic things in the resolution already mentioned here today, that parcels are increasing, that in the end official policy is going in this direction when the rules on direct payments increased 0.10 to 0.20 criteria. So, here, Mr. Secretary, the government needs to know what it's doing. If, on the one hand, it makes it impossible for farmers to increase, I am speaking exclusively of farmers - of course, we will be able to say something similar then why it is also necessary to understand the decision of the Constitutional Court in such a way that agricultural organisations have certain rights from existing rights and so on. If this policy is harmonised, it means that all regulations must contain similar trends, so if we raise the threshold for direct payments, then with other acts we must enable or stimulate the increase of parcels, the increase of farms, create conditions for farms. But the gentlemen of this bill do not. This is not the case in this bill because you put the farmer of the border in third place. I'll say it differently, I'll say it directly, I'll say it again. Because, long ago, after unfair, often incorrect, invitations to tender, land was awarded to renters from different ends, and, of course, since the renter is now in favor of new leases, some huge tens of hectares have. And when the next pitch comes to the call, they have your right again. They do not have the right of young farmers - I am speaking of course of many cases - who choose to be educated, 25 years old and so on because they cannot come along because they have not yet rented this land from the fund. Please, things are complicated and more complicated. But I'm not going to discuss it and I'm not going to discuss it this way if I don't get pulled by my tongue and point at how we are capitalists here, advocates of a capitalist, but we're trying to put things together. If you want, I will repeat it again; first, the concern and tracking of what Mr Podobnik is talking about - the family farm - the expansion of the parcel structure or the management of land policy and the proper regulation of businesses or agricultural organisations that have the right to carry out their activities in this area in the manner regulated by the law. That's all this is about. However, at the expense of one solution or one ambition, everything can be arranged and even subordinated to something else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you. I'll give the replica priority first. Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Anderlich, please listen. Your debate was interesting and I agree that points 2 and 3 should be replaced. Just then be consistent! Then be consistent with your fellow Member Majnik, who also listed under item 2 "purchasing land that is for sale", points! You're not bordering! Isn't it? We're on the same page, Mr. Anderlich. Let us be consistent with one thing and the other! I agree, but as far as the issue of subsidies is concerned, Mr Anderlich, the issue is a little more complex. The plot number, if the land is increasing, is that minimum of 0,1 hectares per 0,2 hectare, and first it is necessary to merge, recategorize the plot number so that a larger area can be obtained to enforce the subsidy. I could explain this method to you in more detail, Mr Minister. And don't think about it because things aren't right! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you. Let's go in the order of the applications. Secretary of State Franc Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to give you a few brief explanations. As far as ownership of farmers is concerned, as Mr Potsch said, it is not. In fact, according to the priority order, they are first farmers, then there is a fund and then there are agricultural organisations. But there is something new about this law that has not yet been said today, namely, that if none of them takes advantage of it, anyone can buy the land because the Constitutional Court so decided. Even so, in coalition coordination, we have ruled out that those who do not have the pre-emptive right to have even agricultural education or competence when this priority order is exhausted. And the other thing about the lease is the fund. From the fund, agricultural land is leased to about 17,000 farmers, i.e. 23,000 hectares, which means approximately 1.3 hectares per farmer. What is the peculiar structure and how it has changed over the last ten years - indeed, it is changing slowly, but it is a process [[...]] [[End warning sign]] Yeah, it's time. [[...]] Only to say this, the number of farms has decreased from 111,000 to 86,000, reducing the number of small farms, but the number of farms that are more than 20 hectares is still only 2%.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u43	In addition, I would like to add that not only does the possibility of those young professionals who graduate from school, from agriculture and do not have their own land or lease, but there is also a problem with a number of experts who have been employed and employed in agricultural enterprises. And, of course, those with really great knowledge, both from school and from practice themselves, have virtually no opportunity to continue this activity or to continue this knowledge, I would say, retain it in the field of agriculture, because by abolishing it and with less opportunity to develop agricultural enterprises, their existence in this area is virtually impossible. That is why, I think, it is also necessary to discuss this very seriously and to offer businesses the opportunity, in fact, to try to design solutions within their employees, so that employees can also design or reach a family farm. Of course, that's not possible today. Thus, employees in a company do not have the opportunity to purchase the land that this company has. This would be one of the criteria that can also be followed by a programme that has been adopted, as said by counterpart Kramberger, in the National Assembly, but is not allowed to do so. The solution very close to those life-saving solutions is certainly that you allow those who have the knowledge that they are working to process this land for decades to continue to do so even if it is a policy such as a family business, or a family farm, or if I do not know what else to find. And there have already been several cases in Slovenia in this way and it has been found that there are no legal forms to solve this, but somehow it has been tried to resolve it. If we are truly prepared to try to establish family farms, then these options must also be taken into account. But I would point out that in Slovenia, for example, when you land, I don't know, a farmer, and the buildings are still owned by a share company if you want. What a cultural landscape will look like, how we will then implement all these solutions when we have some abandoned objects in the middle of a field that you will not actually be able to reach. This is also one of the unresolved issues that should be taken into account if we really want to talk about coordinated solutions and solutions that would lead to effective commotion and the use of what we already have today. This is knowledge in these companies and not least property. All of this is neglected, and I think it's bad. And this is also one of the indications that it did not approach the solutions to this law in depth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you. Janez Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to replicate or support my colleague, Tone Anderlich, but I must repeat this because my colleague Tone was not present earlier when I spoke about my proposal, why we should withdraw or why I proposed a withdrawal - so that we do not support the law. For a simple reason, we have found that there will be a legal void and therefore we do not want to take responsibility. However, as regards the proposals on the order of the 23rd item, I strongly agree with my colleague Toneto Anderlic's proposal to replace the neighbour and the tenant, this is clear to me and I will be pleased to support this and we can also propose this amendment as a parliamentary group and come to this solution in the third reading. What colleague Janko Weber suggests would be that the workers who are now working in these companies should also be given the opportunity to start farming - and I agree with that. I'm just wondering if it's possible because they're shareholders, if these owners will allow it. In fact, the owners who own a share company that does, say, a thousand hectares of land, are these workers 10 or 12% of the owners, all the other ownership is elsewhere in other companies, that's probably not going to work. Well, I agree with these. colleague Anderlič and colleague Miran Ptrč, in the third reading, we can make this change, we can accept this government proposal and then, and I commit myself that we can make the donkeys today IV. Chapter to change; either as a group of Members, or as an individual, or I do not know who. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you. Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Little, I regret that opposition colleagues and colleagues of today's fine weather have not taken advantage of this selectivity and have included more time than the importance of this item in the agenda. What's unfortunate is that it turns out to be as much as it really is that agricultural policy really needs to be broken down by coalition partners alone. However, the debate certainly raised some questions that the applicants did not really think about and should be clarified. This is the problem that Mr Weber was talking about, young people. I asked the Secretary of State myself this question, personally, and went to read what the law says. It is true that there are some fundamental possibilities that some young agronomists, who are part of a city family, can reach their farm once in a lifetime, but not quickly and not easily. Basic agricultural policy, also linked to Slovenia's entry into the European Union, builds on young farmers, educated and capable. We do not allow these young people, educated and able to do so to become new modern farmers with different views, such as those rooted in Slovenian agriculture, and are prepared to lead agricultural production in a way that will be competitive in a demanding European market. The second question raised to me in the debate of Mr Podobnik, which was based on the basic acts of agricultural policy adopted in Slovenia, is what is the basic act of social policy in Slovenia. It is a pity that there is not a colleague of Brenčič here to ask him what the impact is, say, of an approach such as, to possible social problems, even greater than those already in the current agricultural companies, which, in fact, will be impossible for them in the long term. In short, I think it would be good if, on the basis of these discussions that we have heard here today, we thought again about solutions and also found some new solutions, some new ideas on how to find a better way for Slovenian agriculture in the future, particularly for young people. Of course, I am still in favour of the existence of agricultural organisations and companies, and in particular employees in these companies, who have fewer and fewer opportunities in this way and with such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, Josie Auschwitz. Once again, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u49	I just want to add to my colleague Kramberger that I am talking about giving employees the opportunity to do so, and I know at least a few cases in Slovenia where this process would have been carried out if this option had been given. However, since there is no such possibility, there is only one extreme: either termination, bankruptcy, and then everyone goes to the employment agency, and the other is that the owners within agree on how this process will be carried out. However, this option is not given today. However, it is for agricultural experts who are certainly able to manage and process the land of these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u50	Would any of the Members and Members like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We still have some time available, so I will allow further discussion to be given to the Minister, within the overall available time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I would just like to give an explanation on Mr Veber's question or opinion. If the shareholding company owns the land, in the event of bankruptcy, the land goes into bankruptcy and is practically sold in order to pay off the creditors. But what remains then - if the land is leased, in the event of bankruptcy the land is not part of the bankruptcy mass, but in fact it is clear that it goes back to the one who leased the land. Of course it is clear, everyone, every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia or every citizen of any of the European Fifteen plus the European Nine will be able to make the final decision if no one else applies to purchase in the order of priority, and buys this land. This means that someone cannot buy the land, of course, absolutely does not. But I think it might be more appropriate here to settle this guy's issue in that IV. In this context, it is likely logical that in Kočevska, for example, some other than employees in companies that might be able to do this work is hardly there, because there are simply no other farmers except those that are more remote. So I think this case could be settled there at IV. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u52	Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u53	On the basis of what is proposed here, anyone can, if anything, potentially bankruptcy, in the event of bankruptcy remains or, if we consider it, everyone has anywhere the possibility of buying as a citizen of the European 25-erica. If no one else decides to take advantage of the preliminary right, it is European legislation, and we cannot go beyond four freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u54	Janko Weber, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u55	That is why this solution that I have offered is far more appropriate because employees can agree earlier that the land is not even in bankruptcy if we give it room in the law. However, if we oppose this, then it will be possible to buy these lands at auctions. But he's going to buy this land, the one who obviously wants to grow, and that's the most important thing. In addition, most companies are not owned by land but are leased. And here we are again on this common denominator, when we find that it is not possible to treat property and lease evenly, separately, and that is what we are alerting, and that is how the law must be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you. I think that this will allow me to conclude a debate on the amendments to Article 1. And I am opening the debate on Article 4 and the amendment - it is without subject, I apologize. So there are no other amendments than 10 amendments to Article 1. I conclude the debate after these amendments. The amendments will be voted on in accordance with the timetable of the meeting at 4.25 p.m. I'm breaking up the agenda. The meeting will continue at 13.10 p.m. on the 9th item of the agenda. Thank you all for your contribution. Thank the Minister and his colleagues for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u57	I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room, because we will continue the work of the National Assembly. I suggest we go to 9:00. Period of the Day - First of all, a proposal for a law to speed up the employment of people with disabilities. Before that, may I just mention that today our fellow Member, Potrč, celebrates the birthday, the round anniversary, and we congratulate him! I kept my mouth shut for years because he's successfully hiding them. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Janez Petty Officer. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Visiak requested that the National Assembly now hold a general debate. First, I'm inviting a mag. A trifle as a proponent to further explain the proposal of the law. Please, you have the floor, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Hello, everyone! And on my part, congratulations on the birthday of our fellow Member, Mr. Potsch! The Act on the Promotion of Employment of Persons with Disabilities was introduced by a group of Members from various parties, namely New Slovenia, the Social Democratic Party and the Youth Party. The key reason for the introduction of this law was because the government has not prepared an adequate proposal that would appropriately intervene in the situation that has arisen since the introduction of the labour market, when we face high growth in unemployment and severe labour regimes that further contribute to reducing the integration of this population into the labour market or employment The reasons for investment and consideration are even more important and even more serious this year than when we tabled it. If you look at the number of registered unemployed people, it's increased, I think over 20,000. Of course, the Ministry of Labour probably also changed the criteria for including him as an unemployed disabled person. The last time I found out, a lot of things fell down. But in any case, we can safely claim that these individuals are extremely large. And if we take into account the fact that it employs about 1,000 new unemployed a year, so to include it, without considering the one registered as unemployed, then we can quickly calculate how long it would take to hire all these people. In short, after a quick review for at least 20 years. In this way, of course, we cannot address this issue and therefore the initiative is welcome. This year is the year of the disabled. As of this year, we are also enforcing a new pension law, which has forfeited a certain right, at least the amount of compensation has decreased significantly to wait for work on disability for disabled workers. Employment opportunities are falling and therefore there are additional reasons for this. Slovenia must take advantage of the labour potential much better, because otherwise it will have to decide to import the labour force and then take care of this category of persons. But we don't think this is the right approach. The integration of persons with disabilities must also be in the work sphere in a way of equality of opportunity, "meju stroma" and integration as individuals. The law that we have tabled contains a number of fundamental components, very important, which would facilitate the integration of employment and reduce unemployment. Of course, we also expect actions in other areas that would have a synergetic impact on such objectives and results. The introduction of procedures for the exercise of rights, the exercise of rights under this law is clearly established. That's not what it is now. A new work test shall be carried out. The status of disabled companies, we will probably have to face some problem, including the irregularity within the framework of disabled companies, is regrettable by God. To accelerate employment in a European comparable way with a quota system that is well distributed and comparable, in line with the solutions in the European Union, in a way that is also a choice for employers not to excite them. New forms are included, one new form that would be more responsive to the specific needs of persons with disabilities, counselling and intervention in employment and the place of the rehabilitation institute, which is now not clearly defined in this regulation. Europe does not leave things unsettled. You are probably aware that the Amsterdam Treaty and the Luxembourg Summit have been adopted in this area with their documents. They thus have specific measures to promote the employment of persons with disabilities. On the basis of these contracts, the national action programmes I have listed are adopted. It has also been adopted in Slovenia and it would be good to implement it by means of this legislation. If you'll allow me a final thought. Several studies have been carried out on the economic effects of hiring disabled persons, including in the last two years, which have clearly shown that the economic benefits of including unemployed and disabled persons in the economy are very welcome and have a positive net effect. That's why we should decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much, mag. It's a trifle. I will now give the floor to State Secretary Staša Baloh Plahutnik of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you. The area of dealing with the unemployment of persons with disabilities is relatively irregular and the government has systematically addressed this issue. We note that we have been talking about different numbers for about ten years, about different starting points, and the government has wanted to approach this area systematically in a way that it has first prepared an analysis of the situation in this area, that we actually know what we are talking about. In short, not to talk about estimates, about the number of unemployed people with disabilities, but to reach numbers, not only how many people with disabilities are unemployed, but also how many persons with disabilities are able to work and can be reintegrated into the labour market in accordance with European and global standards. The proposed law deals mainly with the employment of persons with disabilities, while the Ministry of Labour assesses that the law and the law we are preparing will primarily address the employment rehabilitation of persons with disabilities with a view to their equal integration into the labour market and will identify measures and incentives for their employment, competent authorities, implementation, financing and control of these bodies. On this basis, of course, we would like to point out that some existing laws are already addressing the integration of these persons into the labour market, a law on employment and unemployment insurance that is already addressing active employment policy issues. The second is that the Ministry of Labour, in parallel with this law, is also preparing a strategy for the implementation of the rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities, which will respond comprehensively and systematically to the question of how the Republic of Slovenia will implement this law. It is that the government has assessed the proposed law proposed by the Group of Members, as proposed, and proposes to the National Assembly that, because it is incomplete, it regulates issues in an inappropriate manner and, above all, does not comply with the applicable global and European recommendations, both A and A [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] as well as the European Union, do not adopt or reject the national law which has been submitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. I will now give my word to the Group of Members. First of all, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič on behalf of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law that will make it possible for persons with disabilities to be equal, as already guaranteed in the Constitution. It is sad that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not send the mentioned substance to the law for consideration before. It is estimated that the ignorance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the work of the people of our country is also assessed through the time delay. Given the importance and sensitivity of the problem, we expect a constructive and serious debate, because otherwise the disabled will be the most affected. Disabled people in our society are a category that has unfortunately also problems of disobedience and ignoring the executive branch of power in addition to psycho-physical problems. The unemployment of persons with disabilities and their employment systems are a specific feature which, unfortunately, politics does not find or, as we fear in the SNS, does not want to find an answer. Today, we can talk about the most difficult situation of people with disabilities in finding employment, which mainly shows that legislation does not correspond to time or situation. The current system also does not satisfy any parties in the employment system. The percentage of unemployed persons with disabilities increased to 18% in 2002. While the number of disabled companies is increasing, it has not in practice shown results in the form of easier and more sustainable employment of this working group. For example, let me mention the region of Korea where 1,300 disabled persons were left without employment due to the bankruptcy of various companies. I personally assess that it would be useful, in addition to this law, to accede to the sub-legislative acts in this area. Their purpose should be solely the protection of constitutionally guaranteed rights. In view of the sensitivity of the issue, I once again call upon all those present for serious consideration of the proposal, including critics and opponents of the law, all with the sole aim of protecting the disabled and their lives. We will support the law in the SNS parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My colleague, Peter Levič, is expected to present the position of the SMS Group, but he is not. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Regardless of the absence of a representative of the proposer, we note in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that, regardless of who drafted the bill or who its proposer is, the proposal for a law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities as a whole is well prepared for the purpose of identifying themselves in individual chapters and articles, as well as in explanation. Our view is that, in addition to the normative framework for the promotion of employment, or, rather, the employment of persons with disabilities, it would be good and necessary to address the area related to the training of persons with disabilities for employment. This integrity should be undermined by a bill that has long been being drafted and predicted by the government or the department. Otherwise, we do not know exactly where the reason is that the bill does not go into procedure; it is probably at least part of the reason for seeking the financial consequences that this law will bring with it. However, since the situation of employment of disabled persons or, rather, of keeping the employment of disabled persons is not rosy, the rate of unemployed persons is steadily increasing, and what is even more worrying is that the lack of employment of disabled people is increasing and that the social pressures of these people are increasing. For this reason, we will not wait in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group on a proposal for a government law, but as a good basis for further procedure we will support the bill we are talking about here today. However, we expect that it is entirely well-intentioned and necessary for qualified applicants, first and foremost, to come up against the law with appropriate amendments that will allow the content and purpose of the law to be finalised in the second reading. However, if the proposal appears, as a more comprehensive consideration of this area, by the Government before the beginning of the consideration of this proposal, which we are now talking about, on the home labour body, we will make an appropriate decision in the classification process, or at the beginning of the consideration of this proposal on the home working body. In doing so, we would also like to speed up the submission of a more appropriate proposal for a law for this area into the procedure if it is not appropriate. However, I certainly think that, in view of the situation in this area, it is necessary to consider and complete the proposal for a law, which, on behalf of the applicants, is represented by fellow Member Drobnic. This matter must be taken with responsibility, regardless of who the applicant is. If the Government does not agree on the need for the law to be brought into the procedure, it is necessary to do otherwise. This is the commitment of our parliamentarians. More specifically, we will have to talk about the proposal of the Law on Humanitarian and Charity Organisations, which follows us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your word. Mr President, the distinguished representatives of the Government, the distinguished colleague and colleagues. Even in the LDS, we are extremely aware of the problems that the proposed law poses, with the first-signed Member, Mr Janez Drobník. We have also made it clear, in the context of the views expressed in the adoption of legislation and the law on disability organisations, that the adopted law on disability does not solve the whole problem, but that the law was primarily related to the technical regulation of the status of the disability organisation, and we have made it clear that the comprehensive regulation of the disabled area requires, of course, the continuation of the activity, and that as quickly as possible, where we have listed three laws: the law on equal opportunities, the law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities and the law on humanitarian organisations. The efforts that are being made here with a group of Members represent this law are also being made in this direction. However, unfortunately, we will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for the following reasons. The main reason why we will not support this bill is that the law on employment and unemployment insurance already in force provides a good legal basis for the employment of persons with disabilities. In accordance with the provisions of this Act, disabled persons constitute a category which takes priority in taking account of the integration into account in a number of different active employment policy measures, which are fully regulated by the rules already in force. Another important reason for rejecting this proposal is that the proposal does not formally or substantively follow the intensive development of the employment of persons with disabilities in the world and Europe, and is inconsistent with the rules governing disability protection, training and employment at international level. In addition, the proposal for a law deals with a narrow segment of the employment policy of persons with disabilities, mainly from the point of view of the professional rehabilitation provider and similar institutions for the employment of persons with disabilities, rather than the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities. The applicant's argument that the current employment legislation of persons with disabilities is not appropriate and that a new law is therefore necessary for the group to be sent in this case in the event of those arguments. That's why we won't support the marriage. At the same time, we expect, as we have already made clear in the consideration of the law on disability organisations, that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will, as soon as possible, introduce into the legislative procedure a law on training, i.e. a government law on the training of persons with disabilities, which will take into account those areas which are not now regulated by other existing legislation and regulations and will be based on the application of adopted international instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you, too, Comrade Germich. That is how we heard the views of the members of the groups they wanted to present. The debate between Members and Members is now under way. Comrade Brenčič, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] I don't see anyone else on my list. Does the government want to give any further explanation on this? Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you. However, I would take these three minutes to present in more detail the law we are talking about, in such a working version, that it is already beginning with professional coordination and that the government, through its programme, envisages this law to be tabled probably for the next meeting of the National Assembly. Secondly, I would say that the conclusions drawn from the work materials of the strategy that will follow this law are, of course, very clear on the groups that we are talking about today and this law in the future. We are talking about when we talk about the number of people with disabilities, that it is practically the Ministry's goal in this area, that all those with disabilities who are also able to work should be included in programmes which, in the employment policy to the extent that it has been so far, and with even greater intensity, mainly in those programmes that lead to higher levels of employment, and that our target strategy by 2006 is that virtually all those with disabilities who are suitable for the labour market will be included in the programmes, so that their possibility of reintegration into the labour market will also be verified. When we are talking about the number of unemployed persons who do not have any other ratings and who are willing to re-enter the labour market, the assessment or target number that we are talking about in addition to the approximately 8,000 people who are currently included in the programmes is an additional approximately 4,000 persons, which we will have to include in all the necessary programmes for re-seeking employment in the coming years and also when this law is in force. Secondly, what is important is that at the moment we do not have a legal void, that we have an existing law, as already mentioned, on the training of persons with disabilities, which provides for measures. These measures are also being implemented. Of course, the extent to which resources can also be defined within budgetary resources depends on the extent of inclusion in a given year. What I would like to add, however, is that the issue of disability issues is also one of the areas that we also include in the programming documents for the future absorption of the European Social Fund. That is why we would like to point out that the basics prepared by the government, both within the meaning of the law and the strategy, are those that will then provide the basis for the proper use of these funds. In the programming work, both this group and the measures are already included in the single programming document, which is now within the government in the coordination phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You still have some time left if any of the audience would like a word. No one wants to discuss it. It's not like that. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a law to accelerate the employment of persons with disabilities. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today at 4:25 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. Until then or until the 10th item of the agenda, this is a proposal to adopt a technical interpretation of Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, which will begin at 2.05 p.m., I hereby grant a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u70	We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 1. Member of the Parliamentary Investigation Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation was submitted to the assembly by Mr Bogomir Zammernik, who I give the floor to explain the proposal further. Mr. Zampernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the Commission dealing with the causes and background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk, I have tabled a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. The Commission's ambition in this was not a hundred percent acceptance of such a definition, the ambition was to open a debate on how to define more clearly the dictates of the institution of public function - who is the holder of the public function. That this matter is not regulated, we are also attached in our opinion by the National Assembly's Law Service, which in its interpretation states: "We find that the definition of the concept of public function holders in the title article," says Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, "is not specifically given. In a substantive sense, however, in our view, it is in line with the term 'functioner', which can certainly only be a loved one or a designated person who performs tasks within a given authority, thus performs government functions. This concept is defined in the Act on Officials in State Authorities, whose acceptance dates back to the time before the adoption of the current Slovenian Constitution, which in the context of the new state regime causes some confusion." These ambiguities have also been met by the Commission, so what I said at the outset - the desire to start discussing this and to come to a definition of what this public function is. That we were somehow successful with the initiation of the proceedings shows the letter delivered to us at the last meeting of the Commission by the Minister of the Interior, which, unlike our legislative and legal service, lists very clearly and fiscally who should be responsible for their public functions. Since I have enough time left, I think it would be useful - because you have not yet received this letter - to read who, after interpreting the Ministry of the Interior or the Office for the Organisation and Development of the Administration, is the holder of the public function. He says: "The holders of public functions are: at the national level, the President of the Republic, the President, the Vice-President and the Members of the National Assembly, the President and the Ministers, the President and the Judges of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Court of Auditors and his Deputy, the President of the Supreme Court, the Ombudsman and his deputies, the President and members of the State Audit Commission, the President and members of the Republic Election Commission, the Commissioner for Access to Public Information, the Secretary of State, the Secretary-General of State Authorities [[Other than ministries]] - I do not know why this is excluded - advisers to the President of the Republic, judges, state prosecutors, state attorneys, minister councillors under the current regime until the application of the Law on Public Servants in June this year and also heads of government services and heads of bodies in the composition of ministries. That's quite a clear answer, the kind of commission that the Commission somehow wanted to get. However, the decision of the Home Committee, that is the Internal Policy Committee, goes also in the direction that the Commission intended to achieve, or I, as the proposer on its behalf, to remedy these uncertainties that have been presented. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The proposal for an interpretation was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Maximilian Lavrinz, to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. On the Committee, the majority of members followed the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which, in short, considers that, for legal and legal reasons, this matter should be regulated by a new law, i.e. a different practice of Article 1, but not by an interpretation. Following a discussion of the will to make such a change, it was sufficient because the debate stressed that not only an official would be considered a public functioner, but virtually anyone with public powers, and in this way would ensure what the applicant wanted an authentic explanation. After the meeting, where, as I said, the general opinion was such, we proposed that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation should not be accepted. We have also come to the conclusion that we are calling for the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly and other competent services of the National Assembly to prepare within 60 days, in cooperation with the experts involved in this area, appropriate material for amending or supplementing the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The Government has not authorised its representatives to this point and has not been declared for discussion and is therefore following a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Zupan, who is not, said that Mr Miran Potrč would present the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Parliamentary investigation is an important form of the exercise of the supervisory role of the National Assembly, perhaps even the most important. But I'm sure it's very difficult. It is therefore right that the implementation of the parliamentary inquiry is sufficiently precise and that the National Assembly uses the parliamentary inquiry with extreme care. For both of us, in practice, we face quite a few problems. The law is not sufficiently precise, and its implementation also points to a gap between expectations, competences and actual possibilities, which creates unnecessary disputes regarding the use of this important institution. Article 1 of the law in itself strongly interferes with the competences of the parliamentary investigation. It states that only matters of public interest are being carried out, that it only identifies and assesses the actual situation and that this is the actual situation found to be the basis for the functioning of the national assembly or in the legislative function or for the determination of the political responsibility of the holders, but of public functions, or of other decisions. The Commissions of Inquiry must therefore comply consistently with the principle of the division of power, since they always decide only on matters within the competence of the National Assembly. This is particularly true in relation to the executive and judicial branches of government. In the latter case, the problem is particularly when the investigation is conducted simultaneously with the criminal procedure, but not after its conclusion. This principle also puts a lot of brakes on investigative commissions, which are not easy to resolve. Therefore, it is also common that the various views of the Commission of Inquiry and the competent executive and judicial authorities, what can and can be done in the implementation of the parliamentary inquiry. Investigative commissions may only decide on matters of public interest. However, on matters relating to the rights of individuals, legal and natural persons, in relation to the content of the law only where at least indirectly these decisions are related to public funds or to the functioning of public function holders. And finally. When it comes to the identification and assessment of the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on political responsibility, it can only be noted as regards the holder of the public function. If this is not an institution of public office, this is not possible, but when it comes to it, the conclusions adopted are the basis for determining responsibility, of course following the procedure applicable to elections, appointments and solutions of public function holders. All of this justifies the proposal that public function holders should also be identified as clearly as possible, since a general formulation is now in force in the law, allowing a different view of this issue. However, we also believe that it is better to regulate this by supplementing the law as a mandatory interpretation, since the definition of the concept in general, as given in the law, probably raises questions as to what might be regulated by a mandatory interpretation. It seems to us that we believe that the National Assembly is interested, that this and other matters of parliamentary investigation are also being handled as precisely as possible, that the issue of who, in the parliamentary inquiry, can also be dealt with as precisely as possible when it comes to public function holders, since we must be aware that, at the final stage, when it comes to deciding on the responsibility of people, including public function holders, this remains the protection of rights. And it is much better that investigative commissions work successfully within their clear powers and with clear conduct, what one and the other things in the law mean, rather than looking for shortcuts that would eventually not be confirmed in the individual rights protection process. That is why we also support the conclusion of the parent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The SLS Group would have wanted to, but they're not. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u77	It is undeniable that it is clear and close to all Members and the desire for investigative commissions to be organised and set up when all other funds, all other mechanisms, all other ways of determining the responsibility of public function holders in individual actions are indeed cancelled. It is also clear that, in the case of a parliamentary investigation, it is necessary to set a target, to determine the subject matter of an investigation, to determine the evidentiary decision, to identify the subject before, and so on. Through this it can be understood that many times the question is whether under the term "public official" or "loved and appointed official" is always understood the same. Many, including Members and Members of Parliament, let alone the public, do not understand this in some way in the same way, but everyone who appears in a role, when they take their stand on a particular issue, is listed on this list at once, and many on the other hand are not, but should be. From the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which is a large-scale issue in view of the narrow question raised [[Even three sides of the range]] It is undeniably clear that in this country a number of things are not yet understood in the same way among all those dealing with these issues. It is therefore more normal and logical to follow the opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy and not to adopt this proposal, which has been put forward, but to adopt a decision that has made sense and, according to the content, is still being debated in the consideration of the partial report by one of the parliamentary investigative commissions - it is probably just an accident, and it is not necessarily for the same commission, because all the commissions are facing this issue and, I am sure, others are much more than this one. Of course, everyone here can have their own opinions. To me, it seems to me that there was a particular purpose here at the time of the establishment of the commission of inquiry. When, during the debate or the hearing and the work of the commission of inquiry, it was shown that the results could not come or could not be achieved very quickly, they should change the legislation and, of course, the rules of procedure and something else. However, I think it is more important that the fact that the Commissions of Inquiry, according to the subject matter, should focus on the work they have done and that, on the other hand, all the issues arising are resolved in the process of amending the law and the rules of procedure on the work of the Commissions. Therefore, in the LDS Group, we will support the interpretation or decision drawn up by a committee which does not support the interpretation proposed by the Commission. At the same time, by adopting a decision imposing on the legislature to regulate these matters in the draft law, we will upgrade the decision that we have already endorsed in the partial report of this same commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Zupanova, who is not, Franci Rokavec, did not, Maximilian Lavrinc did not, and Franc Kangler did not. The time for discussion has not yet passed, and I am therefore asking if anyone wishes to continue to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Would anyone else like to see Mr. Viceroy? No, thank you very much. Mr. Zampernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think our Group of Members has also applied for the debate, but there is still a good deal of time left. I'll just be a minute to clear up a possible misunderstanding. As I pointed out at the outset, when colleague Anderlich was probably not here, it was not intended for the Commission to insist stubbornly on what it proposed or I proposed as a proposal. As I have pointed out, it is a clarification of the dilemma which is and we all recognize and know that they are. I have read the opinion of our Law Service and the interpretations of the Ministry, which are not harmonised. As has already been said by some forerunners before me, these are actually dilemmas that exist. The sole ambition of the proposer was to make this clear. There was no conspiracy theory at the back, no purpose of any extension of jurisdiction, or I don't know what could possibly be insinuated and explained that the commission wanted to take on more authority. The sole purpose was to settle the matter. That is why, of course, I can say that on behalf of the applicants, because, in fact, the Commission is behind this, although I am the only one to propose, we also agree with the decision taken on the parental committee to deal with the legal dictatorship, but so that the matter is perfectly clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and inform you that we will decide on the proposal for a decision of the parent committee so that the proposal for the adoption of that authentic interpretation is not adopted, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, today at 4.28 p.m. I interrupt this agenda item and also the session. We will continue to do so at 2.50 p.m. when we move to the 11th item of the agenda, this is for the consideration of the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u81	We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Proposal for the Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2001 The proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Government representatives were invited to the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u82	Before proceeding to the consideration of the proposal, I would like to clarify or clarify one point so that it does not remain open for the time when we decide. On the bench you received a proposal for conclusions on the proposal for a final account submitted to the SDS and New Slovenia Group. I put this in front of you to see what document this is about and it's easier to talk about. There is no doubt, under the Rules of Procedure, that such a proposal for decisions cannot be put into debate and decision-making. The President of the Commission is also here, and I spoke to him before this point began. We also need to clarify the issue related to the decision proposed by the Commission. If I understand correctly, the Commission has decided on the proposal not to adopt the report - three to three it was, which means that the Commission has decided to adopt it. Such a national assembly today, I think, can decide on the proposal to adopt a final account. However, I also say to one of the candidates, my colleague Dr Bayuk, that a proposal for decisions cannot be put into consideration and decided today when the time is right. I think it's right that we cleared this up early enough so that there won't be any complications later. First I ask the representative of the government, does he want a word? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The final budget account for 2001 shows the following picture. Budget revenues are realised at a total of 1.144 billion, which is approximately 16.2% less than originally foreseen in the State budget adopted in the National Assembly. As a result, budgetary expenditure was also balanced by budgetary revenue in such a way that a 49.6 billion budget deficit was achieved. This is just as much as was planned in the adopted budget. The difference in unrealised revenues was mainly due to the fact that macroeconomic indicators were slightly less favourable in 2001 than those originally foreseen. Budget expenditure was largely reduced by not causing a burden in the following year, but some unpaid commitments remained, which were then paid from the 2002 budget. The financial claims and investments accounted for an excess of 11,9 billion. The country owed $214.6 billion to repay its outstanding debt and a new debt to cover its deficit, which is around 14.9 billion below the level foreseen in the original budget. The main reason for the lower debt was in extremely good public debt management and also in the fact that the rates were moving slightly different from the ones originally envisaged. I can conclude that the year 2001 was concluded relatively favourably, in particular from the position of the country's overall public financial picture. If we compare this picture with some other European countries, we may first make a comparison with some of the countries that are also entering the European Union next year, namely Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, we have been much more successful, at least as far as the budget deficit is concerned. There it moved about 8% in 2002. In comparison with the countries of the European Union, we can also say that our deficit was not worse than what they showed on average in the European Union. Maybe so much to start with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u84	The President of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Commission has considered this proposal for the control of the budget and other public finances of the accounts. A longer discussion was also held. The findings and conclusions were drawn up and also put to the vote. The conclusions were not accepted because, as you have already mentioned, it was 3:3, a proposal which I have drafted, including with the help of the opposition's colleagues, that such a final bill should not be accepted by the National Assembly. On my explicit question, if anyone has any other proposal, such a proposal has not been made. Therefore, if you will allow me, I do not agree with your interpretation that a different decision has been taken because no other decision has been drawn. And even at that meeting, I myself announced that the members of the opposition, who had not been adopted, would convey the conclusions to the national assembly, and we have done so today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'd like to clear things up about this last warning of yours, which is what I said earlier. If you put a positive proposal to the vote, it is appropriate to adopt it, whether it is your personal position or their individual views, the outcome in itself would be very clear without it being necessary to identify it. You put a negative motion to the vote and you said 3:3. This has not led to the adoption of the proposal. Since the other proposals were not prepared in your opinion, the national assembly does not currently have a decision by the Commission. I think it's different. You put to the vote a negative decision, which means that this decision has been adopted. I don't think there's any other explanation for this, because even if we put it to the vote, for example, a proposal for a decision to be adopted and not to receive the necessary support, it would automatically be considered not to be accepted. Please, Dr. Bayuk, I don't want this discussion to continue. Just enough to clear that up. I'll just give you exceptions, except I say, word, so it wouldn't be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr President, for your understanding. Just one explanation. I have consciously formed a negative conclusion, because otherwise I cannot do it on my conscience. However, I expected that others who had a different opinion would have such a presence of the spirit to draw such a conclusion and not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u88	Good. The National Assembly, I believe that it has all the business conditions to decide on the proposal for a report to be adopted, if the majority think otherwise, it will reject it, or it will adopt the report. I think the business conditions are met. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Peče has the first word for the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u89	Respectable present. In the National Party, we estimate that all interpretations of individual decisions by the President, i.e. you, Mr Pahor, are in co-existence, or in accordance with the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that your work is, of course, in violation of one of the basic constitutional principles, that is, the separation between the legislative and executive branches of power. We estimate that, of course, by doing so, you do not bring any good into the parliamentary space, even harming it. But that's your legitimate decision. And the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give you all the strength to do so. On our side, you can only get criticism, and I hope you've understood my words so far as criticism. However, I would like to refer further to the act which is before us and which, as a speaker, the State Secretary has made two basic observations, namely that the year 2001 was financially favourable. Of course, we find such thinking completely absurd. During the current period and with existing public finances to say that 2001 was a good year, it means whether you have this national assembly for a completely unknown body within our society or, of course, that you have to say this because of the views and visions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When you talk about public debt and public debt management, I take it from your introductory explanation, and you consider public debt management to be good, I must say that unfortunately we cannot share this opinion with you in the Slovenian National Party. To say that the period during which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, issued the various forms of bonds monthly, both foreign bonds and domestic bonds, and when the bond sum exceeded all the reasonable amounts possible, that you are talking about public debt management as good and that when each citizen is indebted to over 700 000 Slovenian tolars, and this debt is, of course, still growing, I must come up with the following findings in the eyes of the Slovenian National Party. This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says it is good if our citizens are indebted. And you have also started to compare us with the candidate countries to join the European Union, of course, in the ways that benefit you. At the national party, we fear that if you remain one and the same people in the government, you may even be making progress, which in the final stage has also happened to former Finance Minister Toneto Rup, who has come to the top of power today, Slovenia will not meet any convergence criteria in the next few years. Despite the fact that citizens and citizens have identified their desire to see each other in the European Union and thus probably in the single monetary policy, it is precisely because of the public finances that you are making this impossible. In the National Party, we estimate that out of all five convergence criteria at this time, Slovenia meets only one more, that is to say, the unemployment rate or the price growth rate. All other convergence criteria, unfortunately, have already escaped Slovenia. And why? Because the actual situation is completely different from the situation you are showing in your own documents. You also confirm my words with budgets and budget rebalancies, when within a few months you show the National Assembly and the Slovenian public completely new documents based on new doctrines and new findings. When, for the whole state of public finances, the adverse situation in the area of public finances is blamed for the international factors they have influenced, especially the price developments in oil derivatives, and later this year, when we meet the second and third times with a rebalancing when we find that the crisis in public finances is the sole cause of the attack on Iraq. I say these things because every year they repeat themselves, always at every closing account, at the time of the report, the National Assembly faces the same things. We can see that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is completely incapable of planning or predicting the level of income and the level of expenditure, but there are significant breakthroughs. And this is a mistake that we view in the Slovenian National Party as the biggest mistake and as a fraud of all budget users, whether in state form or in economic or personal form. This is the irresponsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because the plan is so different from reality. They say that individual moments, events at home and abroad can affect a certain ratio of realisation and later the ratio of relationship, but not to the extent that this is happening in Slovenia, throughout the past years, and we estimate that this will also happen in the future. At the final stage of my findings or findings of the Slovenian National Party - because I know you will deny them, as well as every year, because I know what the result will be, greater financial intransparency and so on - talks about the same findings, in other words, also the Court of Auditors, which is in the context of the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, namely the Institute, which is preparing proposals for the adoption of the budget, which executes the budget and which, in the final stage, also controls the budget, the Court of Auditors has given a negative opinion. Because it is clear that a single ministry and government in its entirety cannot afford financial resources. That's not my conclusion, that's a finding from the Court of Auditors. If the National Assembly were to do the same today, in accordance with its established practice, and adopt all the acts that you offer to receive - of course, for which you have all the rights, probably some moral background, because you know that Members of your kind will enable you to do so - it would make sense before that to ask about one matter. If the National Assembly approves this act today, it means that the State is taking over the role of the Court of Auditors and that this institution in our country is virtually nothing more. We estimate that the document we obtained in the form of the Rapporteur indicates that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the findings of the Court of Auditors, has not summarized anything new to adhere to the old concept of keeping to the concept of confusion of public finances. As we estimate in the National Party that this is very bad, that it is harmful, but above all, in the long term, it shows some kind of at least in the area of public finances the collapse of our country, Members of the Slovenian National Party will not participate in the reception or not participate, we will not support the proposal before us today. I also appeal to the other Members, if not the other, to read the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the Republic of Slovenia, to try to understand the meaning of their report, and to see that the essential differences between the Committee on Budgetary Control, between the Court of Auditors and between the words I have said, are not only possible in Slovenia, but you do not know how well to have financial resources within the Ministry of Finance, as you claim for yourself. Unfortunately, during the period when the budget was adopted, during the period when you were making plans for the amount of revenue and expenditure, your ministry was headed by Minister Rob, whom we have already said several times that we are assessing that his abilities are not exactly at the top. But fear is so much greater, for we see that this country has begun to reward the one who is doing bad. Because in the National Party we do not want this practice to continue, not because we fear that any member of your party will come for a step, two higher - of course this is dangerous for the development of Slovenia - but mainly because of the state of public finances, in the Slovenian National Party of the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group is not between us. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, Mr Igor Štemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. We have before us a proposal for a final account for 2001, which has been the fourth in a series of final accounts in the past 14 months. The Commission has dealt with this final account for 2001 since November 2002, indicating a detailed review of the audit report on the accounts and the implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia prepared by the Court of Auditors and in the so-called reactive audit reports. The reason for the detailed review was the negative opinion given on the implementation of the budget as a whole by the Court of Auditors. However, many of the revised direct users of the budget have also received a negative opinion. According to the Court of Auditors, all irregularities were for or at least 11 billion tolars. Of course, this should take into account the fact that in several hundred thousand payments, only 4,500 payments have been reviewed by the Court of Auditors. In our view, irregularities are far too much. We ask what these irregularities indicate. Either they show ignorance of the rules, negligence or overly unanimity legislation. These are key issues that we face in the final accounts, but errors occur both in the income group, in the non-tax revenue group and in all expenditure groups. In the financing budget, however, it is important to note the implementation of the basic development programmes, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out some kind of covert debt. In short, the non-systemic approach to demonstrating budgetary spending for State indebtedness under the law on the provision of funding for basic development programmes has not yet been implemented. However, the audit findings on the correctness of the implementation of the financial plans of the direct budgetary consumers could, in view of the negative opinions and the opinion with a suspension, be summarized into three larger groups, namely the irregularity of salaries and expenditure for employees, the failure to meet the conditions for posting to the workplace and the award of public contracts. These are the three largest groups of irregularities, which will have to be given a lot of attention. However, there was not much talk about any sanctions, or most of the cases had already become obsolete. An assessment of the targets and results achieved in 2001 by the Court of Auditors is also worrisome. In this point, the Court of Auditors notes that no audited person has fully complied with all the rules, instructions and guidelines for the preparation of the report on the objectives and performance achieved in the financial year 2001. The Court of Auditors further concludes that information on efficiency and economics is not sufficient. Nor is it, what has been the success in achieving the objectives set out in the financial plan. Of course, we can only wonder why and how the objectives are defined, if these objectives are not followed sufficiently or are not assessed in terms of performance and effectiveness. This aimlessness in the Young Slovenia Party gives us worry. However, the substantive debate on the accounts for 2001 is also accompanied by extensive correspondence on the reporting method. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that no shadow of doubt may fall on the work of the Supreme Audit Institute. That the Commission for Budgetary Control and Public Finance is putting the Court of Auditors on a sad bench, which is not acceptable to us. Therefore, any misunderstandings should be amended or existing legislation upgraded. The fact is that the parliamentary oversight function has been abandoned in the past due to the priority development of the legislative function and this debate will have to be opened sooner or later. In the Young Slovenia Party, we support conclusions which unfortunately did not receive sufficient support in the budget control committee. However, the correctness of the country's operations as a whole in 2001 is in no way satisfactory.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u93	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. The Slovenian People's Party supports the adoption of the 2001 budget and also agrees with the conclusions of the Court of Auditors on the audit of the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2001 on which the audit was carried out. For the first time, the Court of Auditors revised the individual budget consumers in such a way as to present them to the Commission in such a and such a way. The Court of Auditors and the auditors responded satisfactorily to almost all the questions raised, or dilemmas, or negative opinions of the Court of Auditors. Thus, for the first time, the government and the Court of Auditors presented the revised budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Let us remember that in recent years we have accepted it three or four years ago, I have been working alone on this budget monitoring committee for the third time, so I can do so with certainty and a reasonable claim. That's why the Court of Auditors deserves all the credit. The findings of the Court of Auditors also show the thoroughness of the work. Let me just give you a few examples. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, for example, handed over a cow in mid-year and signed it off and the Ministry did not claim the refund of the subsidy, showing on the one hand the integrity of the farmer and on the other hand the accuracy of the Court of Auditors. Or, secondly, several tenderers applied for the invitation to tender. The one with better references was selected and already known, but not the most advantageous, since negative references are not used enough for us or no one wants to refer them, because they cannot only be "saids" but must also be negative references. And here it sometimes appears to be non-life legislation. And this is often a major problem for budget consumers too. You could still list it. The auditors have also provided us with satisfactory answers on the measures, sanctions, correction of the deficit, although we know that each budgetary user has his own budget plan, which is a specific part of the common state budget. Each direct budgetary user shall be responsible for establishing its own internal control and internal audit system as a basis for the correct implementation of the budget. This is an order from the Court of Auditors both to individual ministries and to other budgetary users, such as municipalities. Each direct budgetary user must manage his own accounting under the Accounting Act, the Public Finance Act and the sub-legislative acts, draw up his own statement of revenue and expenditure, and the balance sheet and each direct budgetary user shall report on the objectives, achievements of its part of the budget implementation. Ministers themselves are directly responsible for the work of their ministry and thus for the implementation of the budget of each ministry. That is why we believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the work of the Court of Auditors, the Commission and the Government, in fact, is a good reference to the future work of the government or of individual consumers, because, as I have already said, the Slovenian People's Party supports the adoption of the 2001 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. And the position of the Group of Members, which will be presented by the Magi. Zoran Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President! Government representatives and other Members! On behalf of the Liberal Democracy, allow me to present our position on the proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. The Commission for Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance considered the audit report of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the accounts and discharge of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 at its 18th regular meeting held in November 2002 and the 20th regular session on 19 and 20 February of this year. The Court of Auditors carried out a cross-review of the users of public funds or auditors. He gave one report to everyone. The report contains individual chapters or whatever we call them intended for individual audited users of public funds. At the same time, the Court of Auditors also delivered an opinion on the whole. The Court of Auditors thus found certain irregularities in its 2001 State budget implementation assessment. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted six decisions at its 168th letter meeting in October 2002 to remedy these irregularities and to implement the recommendations contained in the above-mentioned report by the Court of Auditors. Firstly, in view of the findings of the Court of Auditors and taking into account the legislation in force and the recommendations contained in the audit report, it is not necessary to amend the proposal for the final budget account for 2001. In the final budget account, it is not possible to show the revenue and expenditure for which the Court of Auditors has found that they have been underestimated or overestimated because they have not been paid or paid out of the budget and this would be contrary to the accounting principle of the cash flow. Secondly, that the identified errors relating to the accounts of the budget will be eliminated, the relationship with the Bank of Slovenia, which was permanently contractually regulated in 2002, and the relationship with the Slovenian Development Society, which will be regulated in terms of the elimination of the net principle of the statement of purchase. Thirdly, errors in the financing account relating to under-declared remuneration and expenditure in the case of sovereign debt management are not already regulated by the Public Finance Act to record transactions related to government debt management. Fourthly, direct users prepare response reports. Fifthly, the Human Resources Service should examine and prepare solutions concerning employees of ministries and government services who do not meet the conditions for the jobs they occupy, taking into account the fact that the situation and the workers they occupy are affected. Sixthly, all direct users of the State budget must verify the adequacy of their internal acts governing their financial management, internal control, internal audit, accounting and low-value procurement. In order to remedy the irregularities in the audit report, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also carry out other activities, such as the amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act - public procurement, which will, in the course of the work governing the award of the contract, prescribe more precise and simpler conditions by negotiation, which will determine when the contracting authority may apply this procedure and simplify the procurement procedures. Therefore, the Government did not delay the irregularity under the carpet, as had been heard several times and mentioned on this committee, but faced them and took measures to eliminate them. It adopted conclusions imposing on the auditors and other bodies what they must do to remedy the irregularities detected. Among other things, she commissioned the Budget Inspection Service of the Ministry of Finance to review all audit response reports before they were submitted to the Court of Auditors. On this basis, the response reports were forwarded to the Court of Auditors and the budgetary inspection should further review the implementation of the measures identified by the auditors in their response reports and determine whether the measures are being implemented and whether they are sufficient to remedy the irregularities identified. So if I were to finish, I could say that we can't say that the system doesn't work, but quite the opposite: it works and it works well, because if it didn't work, this irregularity wouldn't show up and there would be no action to remedy the irregularity. Of course, it is the task of the government to address all these irregularities successfully. From this point of view, in the LDS Group, we will support the proposal for the final budget account for 2001 but will not support the additional decisions submitted by the LDS and New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr Pece would like to - he is not among us, Mr Bajuk - nor is he, Mr Gračner has spent time. Mr. Drobnic, he's not among us, and Dr. Bernick is not. Maybe he wants a word with a government representative? Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u97	If you don't mind, just for a little while. It is true that Mr. Pečet is not in the hall, but I would still like to answer him [[Maybe he can hear me somewhere else.]] . His assessment of the state of the public finances and the state budget and his claim that I am actually speaking the truth about the picture of the state budget - I think that if he does not believe in my words, he can look at the assessment of one of the most famous international "rating" agencies that has just sent a rating of Slovenia abroad today. This assessment is improving significantly. For long-term loans abroad, we move from Class A to Class A+ and for short-term loans from A-1 to A1+, which means much improvement. And the first reason why this shift is in a positive direction is the sustainability of the public financial deficit in the period 1998-2002. If you don't mind, just a few more words for Mr. Grandchild's assessment. I agree that there are still many shortcomings in the budget. We tried to explain the reasons why mistakes that were not intentional occurred. It is true that the legislation is not yet harmonised, that it is actually relatively new in the field of public finances and therefore we cannot expect results in a short time. The transition to targets-oriented budget has been carried out by other countries within ten years. For example, I refer to Sweden, Germany, and many other countries are still behind, which took quite a long time. And I have no doubt that we can't do this work with us in one year. You must take into account that the first year, when we were working on the budget under the new Public Finance Act, we were working on the budget for 2001. And creating targets, creating criteria for measuring these goals and then reporting on performance, we are simply not yet translated here and we still have much to learn. However, I estimate that every year will be better, and this is also shown in the budgets, as well as in the final accounts, you will see for 2002 and probably then every year a little better. The situation of negative opinions in ministries or with reservations has also improved compared to 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Since he is well ahead of us for a while, I ask, would anyone, on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, still want to discuss it? Mr. Peche. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u99	I'd love to say "respected representative of the government," but unfortunately I can't say that. You're talking about the "rating" rating abroad, how the foreign assesses Slovenia. You know, the basis for this assessment comes from so-called government data, not from real data. And in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the essential difference between the two is mainly in demonstrating the reality of these two. And he's telling us what's going on. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shows one standard for certain financial indicators, while others are felt by people in reality. And of course, as regards the assessment of the "rating" and the period 1998-2002 in the context of the maintenance of public finances and public debt, it is necessary to say that this is the period, or that it is significant for this period that we have traded the so-called domestic bonds for the euro bonds. And that's what comes out of here. By this year, Slovenia owed itself exclusively at home or almost exclusively. Later, there was a gap between borrowing at home and abroad. And I cannot agree with your assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the quality of public finances in Slovenia. The quality of public finances in Slovenia is gone and whatever you are going to do today or your sidekick who is talking. It is likely that you must defend the policy of credibility of Slovenian finances, but this credibility is not. Slovenian public finances are not in a good position. This is demonstrated by all the budgetary or financial acts dealt with by this National Assembly. If some credibility were in place, then we would not meet several different rebalans a year, then the gap between the layers of the population would not be as great as they are. Then the Slovenian regions would also have a smaller difference between themselves on behalf of the development. And of course, it wouldn't be an exclusive factor in inflation just what you're saying, it's the functioning of the international market. By means of procedures such as the Slovenian Government, or by an assessment as provided by the Slovenian Government, as a reason for the state of public finances, for a bad situation when you acknowledge that it is bad - because you always say that it is good, you compare us with some European countries only in those segments that are, of course, "fitting you" - we cannot solve this area unless we say once in this country: real-view, the situation is different than it is shown. Europe is also talking about us that we have a different situation. That is why I told you at the outset that the only convergence criteria that Slovenia will meet when we want to join the monetary union is the criterion that speaks of the rate of price growth, or inflation. No one else. It may succeed in the area of public finances and in Slovenia's expenditure on reducing unemployment, even in this area, as the fact is that unemployment in our country is lower than in the European Union. But other arguments in your favor, of course, your words are not. And what is so hard to admit is that in this country public finances are not in an enviable position. And we have found that even another institution, that institution that is not supposed to be affected by politics, the Court of Auditors, has found that irregularities, systemic errors, and that this does not indicate certain economic developments in the long term. But I think all this talking is empty. I think that the Slovenian government will continue its tradition of budget and public finances and, to conclude with the same words, we do not intend to participate in supporting this act. However, we sincerely hope - you can believe - that it is not our intention, it is not the intention of the Slovenian National Party to argue with you in order to argue with the finance ministers, with the Prime Minister. Our aim is only one way to make public finances better in our country, to be more exemplary and to reflect the state of public finances in a positive form, in a higher standard and in the satisfaction of our citizens. I appreciate that this should be yours and our biggest concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I inform you that we will decide on the proposal for a final account in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 4.25 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government for their cooperation. As I have already said, at 4:25 a.m., we begin by voting on the proposals for decisions today. Thank you very much. We'll pick it up at 4:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u101	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives of the government! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We're moving on to break seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AGRICULTURAL LAW, PREPARED PROCEDURE. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. Ten amendments have been tabled by Article 1 and we will vote in order. First, we decide on the first amendment to Article 1 of which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the first amendment to Article 1. Mr Kramberger, did you want to explain your voice? Here you are, an explanation of the voice, in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I want to say that I will support the first amendment. Actually, it's three amendments that are connected. It is about the fact that the text itself has a category of independent entrepreneurs. Here I would ask my colleagues and colleagues if you could support the amendments proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. We are moving to a vote on the first amendment of the SLS Group to Article 1. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There's enough of us in the hall, please. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 1. We're voting. 53 present, in favour of 38 votes against 12. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We will therefore vote on two related amendments, namely the fifth amendment of the same parliamentary group, namely the Slovenian People's Party, to Article 1, because this is linked to the amendment we have just adopted. We're voting. 54 present, in favour of 43 votes against 9. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment under number 5 has been accepted. We also decide on the related amendment of the same parliamentary group under order number 10. We're voting. The 55 present voted in favour of 43 Members and Members, against 7. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. The amendment under order number 2, of which the proposal is the United List of Social Democrats, has been withdrawn, so we are moving on to the vote on the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Lydia Majnik under order number 3 with a note that, if adopted, the amendments under order numbers 4, 5 and 6. Excuse me, four and six. We therefore vote on the amendment Explanation of vote. [[...]] First Mr. Sok, then Mr. Kramberger. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I can't support this amendment. In fact, the Constitutional Court, as regards the order of the pre-purchase beneficiaries, did not decide on this. The Constitutional Court abolished the entire chapter on agricultural land transport for other reasons. All Member States in the European Union have a certain order of pre-purchase beneficiaries, and in all countries it is certainly the farmer who processes the land, the farmer who is the pre-purchase beneficiary in front of the rest. If we accept this amendment, we ensure that the pre-purchase beneficiaries are immediately for co-owners elsewhere. This in this case, as proposed, and in the situation as it is in Slovenia, means that pre-purchase beneficiaries will be agricultural enterprises, which are more than 100 in Slovenia. In this way, of course, we will allow agricultural land instead of processing for farmers to be owned by agricultural enterprises. This was certainly not the intention of the Constitutional Court when it repealed the chapter on agricultural transport. For this reason, I cannot support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, I will not support this amendment tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague Lydia Majnik. In fact, in the debate itself this morning, I was trying to explain why this is not good. I would like to say this that Article 23 of the bill proposed by the governments is very well reasoned and the government has confirmed this in its entire procedure of drafting and adopting the law. We also confirmed this on the Agriculture Committee. Otherwise, the debate was as it was, but we confirmed it. The amendments were also defined by the Government. Nevertheless, I hope, colleagues and colleagues, that we will understand that this is a matter of national interest and that when purchasing agricultural land we have to act very delicately, because if we accept it, then in fact the best agricultural land owned by foreigners can come. You'll find it hard to convince me that's not the case. And this is probably not Slovenia's national interest, although it is already a kind of broken phrase, "national interest". In fact, no European country has such a structure. The problem is, however, what we have also learned in the morning is that this order applies to purchases and purchases. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we do not support this amendment, that a government proposal be in place, and then, as we have discussed, let us make a change to the lease law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pukšič. And if I have seen correctly, let me just go ahead, Mr Sušnik, Mr Jerovšek and Mrs Majnikov. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. If this amendment were adopted, this would mean the abolition of Slovenian farms. The fact is that many farmers today have a large number of livestock heads per hectare, which is significantly larger than that according to European standards and as they should have. The only possibility is to get farmers to land, namely, those from the area from which I come, is the whole Song Valley, in our municipality there is more than 25% of the entire area that was previously owned by the combination, and now by the shares of Perutnina, and farmers in this way in our Poet Valley will have no chance of developing or being competitive and comparable to European farmers. The third point, which states that the farmer whose land he owns, leases or otherwise uses, limits the land he sells to is the one who actually gives them the opportunity to get to the land. However, if a landowner comes to this place, which is to a greater extent, then those who formerly operated in the former country were combined and had the opportunity to rent these land. In short, in this way, and if this amendment is adopted, we have, at least from the area from which I come, in the Song Valley, actually abolished the Slovenian farmer. Therefore, neither I nor our Group of Members will support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am also strongly opposed to this amendment, particularly for one reason - because I am convinced that this amendment directly changes the objectives of the agricultural policy defined by the National Assembly in the 1993 resolution; then the National Assembly in the resolution stated that agricultural policy and the development of agriculture are seen in the family farm. By implementing this amendment to the agricultural land law, we would have turned the whole thing completely upside down. On the other hand, I also object to this amendment because it indirectly deletes our attempt to list the municipalities as pre-paid beneficiaries. I understand the Government's arguments that both the law on space regulation and the law on conservation of nature are sufficient grounds for municipalities to establish areas and regulate the pre-emptive right in individual areas. However, it is possible to do so in the area of the municipality as a whole, in protected areas, in the forests of particular importance, and in no way does any of these laws allow for the exercise of the pre-emptive right in the area of agricultural land or exclusively agricultural land, unless that agricultural land is located in any of the areas listed. However, the purpose of our amendment, which would become irrelevant by the implementation of the amendments of the group of Members with the first signed Lydia Majnik, is to designate the municipality as a pre-purchase beneficiary, as it has been so far. The rules in force do not lay down any preliminary rights of the municipality as regards agricultural land, so it was appropriate to maintain such arrangements in order to make it easier in the municipalities to resolve unresolved property matters related to the infrastructure on agricultural land and which are not resolved. I will therefore vote against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment myself. And I agree that, in the long term, this is actually about the abolition of the family farm, the possibility of surviving the family farm and the very precisely expressed interests of capital, ownership and client interests. Applicants are aware that they are in a position of power to manage politics, political space and thus want to ensure long-term material and political benefits. With this proposal, you went down to the level that existed in America at the time European immigrants came to the conquistadors who put the Indians on reservations. That's why you're putting a farmer on the reservation. You're letting him down to Indian level, and of course that's your policy. I must say that there has never been a free competition, an open competition, to be able to compete at all for the lease of agricultural land, because this stems from some non-democratic rights from these relations that have ruled in the previous system and now begin on a legal basis - to guarantee these material and political rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mrs. Majnikov.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much. If most of the colleagues who now explain their vote were present at the hearing of the law, it would be easier to talk and have more arguments. I would point out only the main points, namely that there is a direct link between the order of purchase and leasing, that in Slovenia 770,000 hectares of agricultural area, as opposed to 35,000 hectares, have been leased by agricultural enterprises: that all the land of agricultural enterprises were transferred by the law on the property transformation of enterprises in 1993; that the largest owner of the agricultural land is the state of Slovenia and through it the fund of agricultural land and forests - thank you for the applause - that the amendment does not eliminate farms and provides social security for 3200 employees working in agricultural enterprises and has already granted them the right to use the land for their activities. I firmly believe that 35,000 hectares cannot be rounded around our Slovenian farms, which are 80,000, with the property the country has, and that this could be rounded up with land policy and increase the land ownership structure by more than 10%, as we have increased in the last ten years. I call, of course, on everything to support this amendment, because it is the employees who work in these companies, their basic resources and it is not the destruction of Slovenian farms. One more time. I propose, as I have already proposed in the debate, to support the amendment, but the law in some segments is inconclusive, so I suggest that we not finally adopt it and prepare a new one as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will vote against this amendment in particular, because, in fact, as colleague Majnikov has already said, most of those who will be identified did not attend the morning debate here in the National Assembly. But Mrs Majnikov said that in fact and this holds that there is a direct link between the priority right to purchase and purchase. But with agricultural organisations, the first such lease will expire in two years and KŽK Kranj. It is said that the legislator has time to save this chapter of the lease within two years. If there is a willingness, let us today support the original government proposal in this area. But if this is not ready, then with this amendment, if voted, we will allow the actual possibility to move the Slovenian country from Slovenian hands to the hands of foreigners. Why? Because the tenant by number two in this amendment is also a share company, and secondly because the 20km belt is also being removed as an option that each country can also regulate, not only as a safeguard mechanism, but also so that the farm can be developed in one logical territory where it can be most effective. That is why I am actually calling on Members and Members to vote against, and I will vote against it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Allow only the following explanation. If the amendment under order number 3 is adopted, the amendment already voted under order number 5, which has been partly linked to the amendment already adopted under 1 shall become irrelevant as well as 4 and 6. We therefore vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting! There are 65 of us present, 34 votes against 29. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 29.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted, that the amendments, so under four, five and six, have become irrelevant. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! We are moving on to the vote on the amendment, the seventh amendment of which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting. There are 65 of us in attendance. 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the eighth amendment of the same motions. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And on the last amendment of the same motioners, i.e. the ninth amendment, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. The vote was 22 to 36. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted the amendments to Article 1 of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Since the national assembly with a majority decision is already after the adoption of the three amendments with a later decision, as the Slovenian word "scanslal" is used to say, the solution, as the vast majority supported, would be to ask for a recess so that we can prepare amendments in peace in the parliamentary group. And put it back in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me. I am taking a break, of course, not a break, I am interrupting this item of the agenda, and when the amendments for the third reading are ready, we will continue the treatment now with the 7th item of the agenda. Mr Podobnik, it is a reduced procedure and then we will have the hearings held at the same meeting of the National Assembly. He can meet at the end of the session tomorrow. We can do it today. Today. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u120	We will now, despite the vote, immediately try to prepare the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much, when they are, of course, on the table, we will also have a third hearing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and have a first debate on the amendments. So I interrupt this point, item 7 of the agenda. And we're going to continue with break nine. Period of the day - First defense proposal for a law to speed up the employment of disabled people. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the law on the acceleration of employment of persons with disabilities, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Just a minute. Mr. Brenčič, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. When we held a debate on the title of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for this Decision, I said why our parliamentary group would support the bill. This is particularly because the area that we want to deal with this law is also urgently needed in the context of further regulation. The government has come all too long to the completeness of the regulation of this area, with a materially rich law, and the situation is getting worse. It was precisely in order to avoid this situation that this bill, the first to be signed by Mr Drobnič, could also be upgraded in the stage of further adoption, first and foremost with the amendments of the government, which is also obliged, if any, to approach the integrity of the regulation of the area in accordance with the time we live in. In the meantime, I have finally received a proposal for a comprehensive law, which is in its final form, by the government and also by paying for both rehabilitation and training, which I have pointed out in the basic proposal of the Magi Act. Oh, you little thing. In view of this content, I note that it is virtually both conceptual and nomotechnically impossible to adapt, according to the domestic proposal of this law with the Government amendment, if we are to follow this context. I therefore hope that the government will be sufficiently serious in this area and that the proposal for a law as a comprehensive solution will be put into procedure here as soon as possible. Therefore, the parliamentary group will reject the law or decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in order, let me just say: Mr Drobnic, Mr Vizjak and Mr Pece. Mr. Petty Officer first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Just a quick explanation for the voice. As you know, colleagues and colleagues, this year is a year of disabled people. Unemployment has risen tremendously, employment opportunities are declining, and politics is totally inappropriate. The government, including the former, also Drnovškova and Ropova, has been promising the law since 1996. That's not the law yet. I filed it with a group of Members a year ago. This year, the government promised to bring in the marriage. She didn't do anything. What Mr Brenčič listened to there is not even harmonised among the experts, I tell you so much. And I'll say one more thing. Professional rehabilitation is another concept of training. And the chapter on the training of persons with disabilities is beautifully and well written in my proposal on the principle of rights, not on the principle of active employment policy, whether yes or no, because it is then implemented in this way alone. Well, the government's passed the exam and I don't believe she's going to submit anything, like with humanitarian organisations. I've been waiting a year and he hasn't submitted anything. It is therefore unreasonable and unreasonable why we should vote against it. If the government proposed a law, it would make sense for you to reject it. But since you don't know if she's going to submit it in the next 20 years, you don't know. So it's an inappropriate conclusion and I remind you of the consequences. However, because I expect you to do this in accordance with party discipline without serious consideration, as did the LDS comments on the law. You've read this somewhere else, from some charlatans, but you know it's not in line with the European Union. I tell you so much that, in accordance with the selective approach of our cooperation, I offer this assistance to the government in the drafting of the law, in accordance with these selective measures. I will vote in favour of the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I don't see why we shouldn't accept that in the first reading. It is quite simple, although the law provides for three ways of hiring persons with disabilities - or the proposed law - and also specifies that employers who do not employ the required number of persons with disabilities will have to pay a 30% minimum wage for each person with disabilities. I don't see anything wrong with that myself. I see a much worse situation at this point in how many employers take advantage of the current situation, when they create disabled companies in one way or another just to "come through" - in sayings, of course - in one way or another, by refunding funds, subsidising funds, actually exploiting this structure of people. And it's sad that the government hasn't come up with a bill in so long. And if it is, and if we have at least read it superficially at the expense of all laws, it seems to me that the law is good and that it is certainly suitable for adoption at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the law on the promotion of employment of persons with disabilities, first reading, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. 64 present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE 1. Member of the Parliamentary Investigation Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 1 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation shall not be adopted." We're voting. At 63, 40 votes to 18. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and therefore the procedure for examining the authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE FINAL ACCOUNT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA'S BUDGET FOR THE YEAR 2001. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "The final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 shall be accepted." Mr. Bayuk, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, please take a 10-minute break. Before that, if you could explain to me where this proposal came from, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'll make a 10-minute recess before I make my decision. At the time of the discussion, when the meeting was chaired by the President of the National Assembly, he explained that the committee, when it examined the report, had voted on a proposal for a decision that you, as chairman of the Committee - President of the Commission, apologized - that is, you proposed that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 should not be accepted. When you voted on this proposal, the result was three votes in favour, three against, which means that the text of your decision was not adopted, in order not to accept the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. I'm trying to re-explain the president of the National Assembly from this city. Which means that, of course, it follows that, due to the non-acceptance of the final account, it is proposed to the national assembly that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 be adopted. Since such a logical conclusion should be drawn by the chairman or the chairman of the committee, when leading, on the basis of the outcome of the vote at the meeting of the Commission. This was the explanation and the proposal for a decision is therefore also intended to adopt the final budget account. This was explained to you by Mr President, and he also explained to you how you have acted on the proposals for conclusions you have proposed. This is how the script is prepared in this direction, and we will vote on it in this way. Here you go, Mr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. You repeated the part of the debate we had in this Chamber. However, you did not say another part, namely that, although it was so voted on, three-three, this proposal that I myself formulated, that I immediately invited and asked the members of the Commission if they had any other proposal. And no proposal was submitted. That's part of it, too. In any case, I'd ask for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm giving you 10 minutes' leave to consult before the decision is taken. At 17.14 we will vote on the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u132	Dear Members and Members! Let's get back to work. I'm giving the word to Dr. Bayuk to explain. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. After consulting our Group of Members and the Group of Fellows of the Social Democratic Party, they would suggest that the Business Commission should explain the meaning of Article 61(2) of our Rules of Procedure in this case, which states that the National Assembly cannot decide on matters to which it has not taken the position of its mother's working body unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure. We do not find such a provision in this Rules of Procedure. However, I assess that the interpretation of the second paragraph of Article 61, which has now been presented by the leadership of the National Assembly, is questionable. We therefore propose a decision to have the Business Commission explain this. Before making a decision, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The President shall interpret the Rules of Procedure and the decisions taken at the meeting of the national assembly. You can always contact the Business Commission in writing, in accordance with the rules of procedure. The article that you cited and should be the reason why we should not move to a decision on the proposal for a decision to adopt the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 reads as follows: "The National Assembly cannot decide on matters to which it has not taken the position of the home labour body unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure." At this point, I must decide whether my mother's working body has taken a position on the matter. I assess that, given that the mother labour force on the proposal for a decision that you formulated as chairman and stated that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 was not adopted, not only did it not take a position, but it also voted on this proposal. It voted with a score of three to three, which means three to three against, which means that your proposal was not adopted, and the proposal for a decision was not supported. Thus, on the basis of the result of the vote, the mother's working body decided to propose to the national assembly a decision, 'to accept the final account of the budget', because the negative decision, which you have proposed, has not been adopted, so that the final account is not accepted. There is no discussion on the interpretation by the chairman of the meeting of the State Assembly. [[Intermediation from the bench.]] Dr. Bayuk, I will give you my word immediately for a procedural proposal on your part or for an explanation of vote; there is no controversy about the President's interpretation. Here you go. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. It's going to be a problem, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, it's going to be, I do not agree with your position that you have to decide on this - you have made this decision. And we, as the Group of Members, will also decide. It is clear that the great coalition has decided to vote on this today, regardless of such or other arguments. When I listened to you today, certain explanations, I must admit that in a sense I admire how you know how to put things on your head. For example, the representative of Liberal Democracy sang praises to the Slovenian government because she now promised to submit to the state law amendments to the Public Procurement Act - and praised them! Dear colleagues and colleagues, do you know that this National Assembly of December 2001 has already adopted this decision and ordered it from the government! But you will turn the disrespect of our conclusions to the praise of our government. Apparently, dear colleagues and colleagues of the great coalition, you have decided today to vote that the world is a four-year-old. Have a good trip! New Slovenia declares obstruction at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Vote explanation, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u137	There's no explanation for the voice. There's no explanation for the obstruction. Reason: The Rules of Procedure clearly state that the Committee or the Commission must first take a position on a particular matter. According to your explanation, she took it because she was considering one decision and she didn't take it. Nor did it adopt a second decision, a second option. And at first it was 3:3 and even if the second decision had been put to the vote by the commission, it would have been also undecided. Nowhere is there any moral or business evidence that the position was taken. This is the first time. Secondly, of course, in this national council, we find that the rules of procedure are very lacking. I'm sorry. There is a practice that is written to the detriment of the opposition or a practice that is written to the detriment of the ruling coalition. Gentlemen, we do not want to be involved in this kind of hairdressing of the Rules of Procedure, because this is an extremely rude doing or even a little ethical attitude towards common documents, which should not only be the constitution of this National Assembly, but indeed a condition for our joint work. This is why we are predicting to this point the obstruction of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will vote against your interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u140	We are not voting on the interpretation, but we are only voting on the proposal for a decision to adopt the final budget account. There is no longer a business opportunity to talk about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u141	I will vote against this decision, Madam President, because I do not think that the point is actually ready for decision at the meeting of the national assembly. We can remember the proposal to supplement and amend the law on safety and health at work when the mother's working body rejected everything [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u142	I do not allow a debate on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u143	He's still the title of the law. However, the conclusion of the College was that the mother labour body should meet again and clearly define the conclusion that the proposal for a law was rejected and that it was not a suitable basis for further consideration. And I also argue that if a decision has not been taken on the home labour body not to accept the closure of the 2001 account, a different proposal should be adopted for the decision to be adopted. I will therefore vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Grošelj, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. If I may, I would explain my vote because I am also a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. The magnetogram could very well determine how this meeting was also guided. In fact, it was first proposed that the final budget account for 2001 should not be accepted and that other decisions and positions should be considered at the next meeting. I objected to such a decision and, of course, suggested or deferred the hearing to the next meeting, together with the conclusions and views and the relevant conclusions. However, the President of the Commission, Dr Bajuk, insisted that we vote at this meeting and, of course, also a member of this commission, Mr Kelemina, then proposed that I propose such a decision as I have proposed. However, I replied that he quickly realized that the ratio was 3:3, which of course means that if I suggested that it should be adopted, this decision should also be adopted. That is why Dr. Bajuk proposed this decision, as was specifically quoted here, and of course the result was then 3:3 and after this vote he said: "I see," let's see the magnetogram, "that the proposed decision was not adopted and that is why I am concluding the meeting." And we're gone. This is also the way in which this committee operates. Therefore, Madam Vice-President, I think your interpretation has been perfectly correct and I also agree with your explanation for the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission and the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There are two others who have agreed to explain the votes, but I ask you very much not to deal with my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure in explanation of vote, because this is not a matter of discussion, but it is an explanation of the vote on what someone decides to adopt or - it is said to be someone for this decision or against. First the explanation for the vote, Mr Peca, then Mr Gračner. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u147	I would like to use my explanation of vote for two purposes, namely, to satisfy, for the first time, my curiosity about the content and the purpose of sitting in front of Mr Matjaž Plevelje. For, at the National Party we always happen - please allow me - to have Mr Plevelje at any time a representative of the National Party look away. Is your role, Mr. Plevelje, that you play "trawled dough" in the front there, or what is your role?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u148	Mr. Pece, please. Don't stop your time, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u149	Madam President, for once in your political career, be honest and fair. Allow the people of the opposition to say what they think in this national assembly. And if we have criticism. I also ask the Liberal Democrats to calm down; Mr Jakič, you will learn some image and you will only speak when you have a word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u150	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u151	For the time being, either calm down or leave the hall. Next.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u152	Please, peace in the hall, Mr Pache, you have the floor and your time is running out to explain your voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u153	Please calm down, Mr. Jakich. On the other hand [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u154	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u155	Have you calmed down, Mr. Jakich?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u156	Mr. Peche, I remind you that it is none of your business to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u157	Your habit is often to give a reminder, but the effect is not. On the other hand, I would like to point out that we do not agree with your explanation in the Slovenian National Party, as we do not agree with Mr Pahor's explanation. However, we estimate that it would be wise and wise, Madam President, if, in the context of such an important act as it is under consideration, at this point in time, the meeting were to try again to find a political consensus, and without this national assembly deciding on or deciding on the obstruction of the two political parties on the basis of a question that we will vote on. Act wisely, or in any case we will vote against the adoption of that act in the National Party. Mr Aurelio Juri, the same rules apply to you as to everyone else, and I ask you to calm down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u158	Mr. Gračner, explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you. So, as I said earlier in my own explanation, I will vote in favour of the proposal for a final account. This is mainly because of this - see, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances has addressed this topic from November until now, it is said, even the last meeting was actually on this topic in February, or another one was later in March. And it was perfectly clear, it is said, that only this fact can say that we have dealt very carefully with the Court of Auditors' audit report. The government has also adopted six conclusions on these irregularities and has also proposed certain amendments to the laws to remedy these irregularities. So the obvious government is going to sweep this irregularity under the threshold, it's not going to hold. More. No one hides these, I'll say, eyes that were not machined by certain irregularities in the implementation of the budget. Some measures have been discovered and have been summarised so that these irregularities will no longer occur. So there is no reason to vote against the final bill or we will vote against it or I will vote in favour of it. However, as far as it is concerned, whether a meaningful vote is yes or no, it is quite simple. The government proposed to the National Assembly for admission, Dr Bayuk or the President of the Commission tabled a proposal "against" at the February regular session. This proposal has not been adopted. It is said that the logical consequence is that it is; but at the next meeting, which was held in March, there was no proposal at all. As President of the Commission, I could certainly make such a proposal. He didn't hand it over, so it's said that all this mistaking about it makes absolutely no sense. Therefore, once again, we will vote in favour of the finalisation of the accounts in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision to adopt the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. It's 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2001 has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the efficiencies bill for loans, hired to refinance loans to electricity undertakings - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? Minister of Environment, Space and Energy Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u161	Dear Vice President! Dear Members and Members! You have before you a proposal for a law that you have already considered in a similar and not entirely identical way. At that time, it was rejected because of some uncertainties or unexplained questions, according to some regarding the transfer of credit to Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Well, in the meantime, an interstate treaty has been ratified and, of course, the bill provides for the same content as it predicted at the time. So, the transfer of credits for the construction of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, to Eles Gen, which became co-owner of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, is also provided for in the ratified interstate contract. We urgently need this law in order to be able to make the opening balance of the Krka nuclear power plant after the new one. Otherwise, we urgently need it in order to reduce the cost of paying interest in some other companies of the Slovenian electricity industry. This is to reduce the costs incurred by the interest on two loans leased by the Šostanj Termoelectrica power plant by two loans leased by the Termoelectrica Trbovlje and the credit paid by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik. As I said about two months ago, we expect this law to bring between 150 million and 200 million dollars of savings annually to individual Slovenian electricity companies, so of course I propose that we accept it as soon as possible. On the basis of the opinion of the Law Service, the Infrastructure Committee has tabled two editorial amendments, which we also support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the committee, Mr. Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. The Infrastructural Committee considered a proposal for a guarantee law for loans hired to refinance credits from electricity companies. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in which the service notes that the role of Eles Gen, d.o.o., in the electricity system of the proposed legislative text is not visible. Therefore, it considers that the text of Article 1 should be recast so that at least its role in relation to NEK, d.o.o. is identifiable. In accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee has adopted two amendments, i.e. the amendment to Article 1, which takes into account the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, and the drafting amendment to Article 6 of this Law. The Committee supports and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group is to be presented by Mr Mamić, who is not. Mr Barovic, Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. So much so that I can explain to my colleagues what is going on today and, of course, by asking them to support the proposed urgency procedure or the proposal for a law. Otherwise, I would very much like Article 6 of the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine and the development restructuring of the region, which speaks, "the means to implement the mine closure programme are provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from the own resources of the public company Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik" in order to implement this as it should. As this was not the case, due to such or other financial problems of the State, it was the case that the Trbovlje-Breeder mine had to hire a loan to repay the first principal. Of course, this is completely outside the context of this law and with the proposal for a loan guarantee law hired to refinance the credits of electricity companies, I understand and believe that the state will accept its debt a little later than it should, so all respected colleagues and colleagues in this National Assembly will be asked to accept the loan guarantee bill, as this will allow us to proceed normally with the adopted law and procedures relating to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have heard the position of the groups of Members. In the second reading, no amendments were tabled to the amended law, and they cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u167	We move on to the 22B POINT OF THE DAY LINE - this is for consideration of the proposal for a conclusion on the rise of the trade union of workers in Slovenia for the application of the request for a census of the previous legislative referendum in connection with the proposal for a trade law. I have put forward this proposal for a decision for consideration by the assembly. The proposal for a decision was addressed by the Committee on the Economy. Does the President or the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm asking, do government representatives want a word? Then it will now be up to the members of the groups. Mr Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't want to repeat myself, but I think it's best if I remind you again - I think at the previous session. In fact, I would like to reiterate my respects for my fellow Members. In our constitution, there is a free and market-oriented economic initiative. The Constitution is the highest legal act that we must all respect. I will say my experience in liberal markets - as liberal markets can be judged by all, but mainly by the Scandinavian countries, for example - they are practical to leave their own decisions to such constitutional principles of economic initiatives. In addition, I would say that we wanted such an economic and political system ourselves, once again I stress the direction of such or other market behaviour. And once again, I would like, my fellow Members and colleagues, to point out that it is not our business to decide on this, because in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, in order to determine who we must, whether we may, or whether we want to, or whether we want to afford Sunday rest if it is the market decision of both employers and employees as consumers that is market-oriented. I, my fellow Members and colleagues, feel that the power to open opening times of trade, especially on Sundays and holidays, is to settle in a variety of ways, in many ways and in no way interfere with the law in the market economy, in the controversial - still for me - constitutional provision, and not in any way with the re-exploitation of time and money for a possible future referendum. I would also call for political understanding in this case, and I would call for a solution that will not harm or benefit one another or others, but at the very least, even though I respect the referendum as the highest possible decision, or the highest level of direct decision-making of citizens and citizens, but I think that we have already received inflation of referendums. I think that is enough, and that we should be able to find a political consensus to resolve the issue of work or work on Sundays and holidays in a different way, with political consensus - with all due respect that no one would now get into my words - so, once again, employers, as employees, as well as consumers in the market that we have chosen ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I give the floor to my colleague Podobnik to present the position of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you, President. I'll be with you in a minute. As we have set this item for the agenda, I have put forward some views on the content of this Decision. First of all, I would like to say that the preamble to this decision is unusual, because we are talking in the preamble about Article 16 of the Referendum Act and Article 15. As we know, one article speaks of the constitutional content of the content of the request and one of the issues of ambiguity. I do not remember all of them since we have the Law of Referendum Initiative, so that in one decision we can come from both articles; and on uncertainty and constitutionality. It seems to me like a new one we've never known before. It also seems to me little, as I will say, unhygienic, that even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision as an argument for a decision, and the substance of the Constitutional Court's decision is that the procedural conditions of the Referendum Initiative Act have not been met in order to submit a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the matter. I wouldn't write that in the preamble. But to us, I would say, like this -- let's ignore that we got a slap, because we got it, we're quoting this opinion from the Constitutional Court. Now, colleagues and colleagues, if you have had time to review the decision - the decision is very complicated, talking about additional explanations, about re-examination, about upgrades Let's say, look at the last part of the conclusion: "... and add it in the direction of objective and neutral determination of exceptions that will not allow their application in a way that could lead to inequality between economic operators engaged in commercial activities." [[...]] This is an open field for re-assessment when they arrive at the National Assembly. The decision is unclear. In my view, they should be correct to the applicants. And whether to go only to Article 15, which refers to the vagueness of the question, or only to Article 16. But we continue with the Latvian language, as we did fourteen days ago, when we mixed each other up and made a complete mess. So this decision is again not an honor, colleague and colleague! Tell me the practice of someone listing the practice that we have called on the applicants in a single decision, both in terms of ambiguity and constitutionality. The path is wrong, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know who wrote this. It would be good for someone to sign such proposals for conclusions as well. And not least, when we get such a slap out of the process, we don't have people in the national assembly who are supposed to be experts in this area, but this is just passing us by. It can't go past us! Someone take responsibility for such mistakes! The decision is unclear, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u171	The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Kontič, and then I will also give the Head of the Legal and Legislative Service the opportunity to explain. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we have said the last time we considered the initiative to the Constitutional Court, we did not object to the Constitutional Court's ruling on the compatibility of the referendum issue with our Constitution in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, even though we felt that the referendum issue was not a questionable question at the time. Perhaps the motions for a referendum for some - this is also evident from the complementary proposal for a decision - have not been fully clear in their current explanations or have fully defined the public interest, but the arguments that this is not reflected in their proposal for a question do not hold true. If, on the one hand, it is the interest capital after as much profit as possible and possibly also the consumer after continuous access to the necessary goods without any restriction, on the other hand, it is also the rights of workers to normal and healthy work and rest, the issue of the rights of workers which Europe's market social economy has built over the centuries and has enforced them as acceptable standards of social life. It is therefore clearly a matter of primacy of public interest, which must be enforced by the State in order to ensure greater social cohesion through its regulations, which is also established through a regulated period of rest for workers and workers and absence from work, which also allows for normal socialisation of the family. Our Constitutional Court also drew attention to the State's obligation to resolve these issues when it stated that the extremely liberal concept of entrepreneurship would not be in accordance with the Constitution when article 17 of the Trade Act was repealed in connection with the regulation of operating time in retail trade. Since operating time represents one of the objective conditions for carrying out a commercial activity, the legislator may designate it for public benefit. Therefore, only the fact that the legislator regulates operating time is without prejudice to the free economic initiative of the operators of this activity, provided that it is evident or at least foreseeable from the law, that the person must take account of the limitations or conditions for his or her business. We are therefore of the opinion that it would be difficult to find an unconstitutional provision that trade is normally closed on Sundays, except for a maximum of ten weeks, when it could also be opened on the proposal. Perhaps the proposed referendum issue could be marked by an increasingly uneven treatment of different economic operators, as some trades could be open and others could not. However, the law would also regulate all equivalent trades of the same scope of operation. However, it is also worth noting that exceptions would also follow the practice established in other countries, especially since in these cases it is not customary trade related to the permanent care of the local population, but mainly to shops that serve temporary guests with the most urgent offer, such as hotel guests or passengers crossing different transport terminals, or even have human purposes such as the sale in hospitals served by patients. For all of this, we will not object to the fact that the National Assembly calls on the proposer of the referendum question to further explain why it considers that it is not contrary to the Constitution, but, at the same time, I reiterate that in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we do not agree in any way with the assessment that the issue, as already proposed, would be incompatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Kavčič will present the views of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u174	Your Honors are here! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the updated proposal for a decision calling for a trade union of Slovenian trade workers by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to clarify the referendum issue. We believe that there are valid substantive reasons for this. On the other hand, from a substantive point of view, we would, of course, like to see the arguments on this law move slightly from the area of demagogy to the area of real regulation of the problem, which is very important. This problem of opening times [[...]] [[Can I have your colleagues' attention, please? Thank you very much.]] So, the issue of opening times in trade is of course extremely important for workers in trade, as well as for all other citizens, it is said, for practically 2 million Slovenians. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that, according to the criteria of a socially regulated market economy at this time, we have not an ideal but satisfactory law governing this area and that any interference with the current regime will have to be very careful, since some good intentions could otherwise be faced with very bad consequences for those for whom some of my colleagues are eloquently striving; that is, for those employed in trade. Estimates are that drastic interference in opening times such as now could lead to a reduction in the number of jobs needed in trade to 20,000. Therefore, this matter needs to be carefully reconsidered. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u175	Please. Only one has a word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u176	It is therefore necessary to think carefully about this issue and to consider the balance that this law brings between workers in trade, owners, employers' representatives and buyers. Interference in this area, in short, must be highly thoughtful. There's another crowd of people who can't be lost in front of their eyes, they're unemployed. Unemployment in Slovenia, which would reduce the cost-effectiveness of business in trade, resulting in a decrease in jobs of course, would not allow for better employability in the future. There's something else that needs to be pointed out here. Any marriage that's as good as it is doesn't help if it's not being implemented consistently. In place, there are criticisms by trade unions and employees that go into the area of non-compliance with all the provisions in the field of labour law in trade. However, the solution to this issue is not to change this law; the solution to this issue is in common effort, especially for those responsible, to strictly respect labour law. This is therefore a better direction to achieve better conditions for workers in trade. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also support this proposal for a decision, which, within the next eight days, as we have understood the representatives of the trade union, will contribute to greater clarity of the referendum issue in the hope that this referendum will not come to fruition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The last of the representatives of the parliamentary groups will be mag. Drobnič, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please. Don't you? Okay. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the debate of Members and Members of Parliament, it would probably be worth hearing the views of the legislative and legal service. Please also have a few questions from a colleague of the Sponik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u178	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I think I am particularly obliged to explain the use of the preamble, which, I will just say, comes out of the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court has explicitly stated in its explanation that, according to its assessment, the National Assembly has not taken advantage of all the options it has under the ZRLI to reach the referendum only on the basis of a clear and constitutionally consistent referendum question. And he estimated that he should ask the initiator to complete the initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, Article 16 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative does not impose this obligation on the National Assembly. However, it imposes an obligation to clarify the constitutionality of the matter in dialogue with the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the basic basis in this case is, of course, Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and the fact that we are now turning to the initiators, which is not provided for in this Article, is based on the Constitutional Court decision, as we have also said, taking into account the Constitutional Court decision and, of course, the relevant provisions which provide for it. This is the provision of Article 15, which imposes such an obligation directly on the General Assembly on the clarity of the referendum question. In doing so, the honourable assembly would inform us that we have adhered as much as possible to the decisions of the Constitutional Court in determining this further step of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Brenčič, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I won't be long. I have said some of my views on this decision to the content of the decision already on the Committee. Such a defined decision is far from material, both in the title of the Constitutional Court and in the title of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Thus, there is an indeterminate full notion in this Decision that the applicant is virtually unable to explain in what direction to complete the referendum question. But that's all I want to say. I'm sure I won't support this decision. I advocate a European practice of dialogue between partners. These are traders, owners, or managers, and his employees. As this dialogue did not take place, on the basis of its profitability perspectives, the one who is stronger leaned on a rather high policy to stand by him. This demagogue, when some of us announce that we are some kind of demagogue, will be cut off by people at the referendum. And it is only right that we are not as legislators in a position to regulate the law in order to bring about a referendum in this respect. And I support that. And I reject Judez's work and the demagogies I have heard here today, and I will not endorse the proposal for a decision by any means, even though I strongly advocate that this issue should also be settled for the benefit of consumers, but, above all, between partners, not for the power that comes to politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. First of all, I am convinced that the Constitutional Court has already established in its decision that public interest can also be prescribed by the law of opening time and that there is no restriction on freedom of competition. It is true, however, that we must identify this public interest and that this public interest is not disproportionate or measures by interfering with freedom of competition. But to talk about whether it's not possible, or whether it's not possible, or whether it's not European, or whether it's our belief or not, because in my personal name, I'm not. Second of all, I understand the conclusion. It's probably written in a way that we can explain it in our own way. That's not good. But it doesn't suck. I understand it by following the decision of the Constitutional Court, which requested it to establish non-constitutionality, it must first identify the necessary additional elements or additional arguments. In short, the Constitutional Court has found that the National Assembly itself or on the basis of the opinion of the applicants has not obtained the necessary arguments on the basis of which it could say: our opinion, the opinion of the National Assembly is that, for these, these and these reasons, the initiative is unconstitutional and we ask the Constitutional Court to assess it. He didn't do it. If he wants to do this, he needs to get additional elements. And this is the approximate content of this decision for me, which means, among other things, when we are eight days away - and I believe that we will - get additional explanations, either someone - who is it, Members of Parliament and Members - will have to ask one of us again to find out whether the requirement is consistent with the Constitution or not, if it pleases. We are probably not going to demand this in our Group of Members, because from the first day forward we say that we do not see a constitutional problem. If no one asks for it, the President of the National Assembly will have to call for signatures. That's how I understand it. Anyone else can understand that. This is a procedure that has not yet been used in the referendums, and it is, I would say, something additional, something new, a little help to us, a little help from the Constitutional Court. I will support this proposal for a decision on my own. I will support it in order not to put the applicants in a position in which - because the issue is indisputably clear, the question is clear on the basis of its basic content. We can only talk about whether it is possible to comply with the Constitution or not - according to some. In order not to put the applicants in a position to go and collect them, because if we do not ask them to do so, the Constitutional Court will say nothing - to collect 40,000 signatures and if they do or when they are collected, again someone who doubts that things are constitutional and will then ask the Constitutional Court to determine the necessary constitutionality when such and such a procedure has already been carried out. But I'll admit one more thing. I believe that at this time there are also some possibilities for arrangements to come into being, and that is also the reason to give ourselves another week or 14 days more time to make arrangements, which is our first and most important wish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u183	My friend Kremjar has the floor. You didn't want to? You've been reported in the debate, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. So, of course, I support, of course, the decision we have today, because I think that this decision should be adopted and also with this additional deadline proposed by the Committee. At the same time, of course, I must say that I am thinking about this matter, I will say, like my colleague Barovic. It's a very complicated matter. For the first time, what I think is necessary and must be said is that, in my deep conviction, this is not a matter for which a referendum should be held. This is a matter that has to be resolved in every way, if it is to be resolved, resolved elsewhere and not in the referendums. The inflation of referendums is certain, but this is a broader issue, the question of how we have this area regulated and will be regulated when this area is otherwise regulated. As far as the contents of the whole story are concerned. My deep belief, of course, is that these things must be settled in a dialogue between employers, between workers and consumers; in short, in this circle, which is interested. Here we have a circle that will work if everyone does their job. The employer will be interested in opening the store if he earns the money. He will make a profit if consumers are satisfied and if enough. If this is the case, he will have to pay the good of the people who will work, and of course he will have to have enough of these people. The correction that needs to be here is, of course, a union, which I believe must fight to ensure that these people, if so already, receive adequate payments, adequate days off and all that needs to be. And that's basically what the union has to take and fight for. I don't know, but let me be forgiven, the union of no one who fights to keep people from working. Because of this for sure, and I am deeply convinced of this, it is that some people will have lower earnings, not owners, employees and fewer employees. I don't know, buddy Kavčič said this number, I don't know them myself, but it's clear, logical that there will be fewer employees. And of course, if I think about it this way, then I can't be for a solution that will make less employees and even those employees have less earnings. I'd be driven by some other logic, and I don't want to be driven by that logic. That is why, of course, I support this decision, which we have before us, in the hope that there will be some agreement even in these 8 days, but otherwise I basically object to such solutions which they restrict and, above all, I oppose the decision taken at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u185	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support this proposal for a decision, because I do not want to be involved in the new national assembly's intrigues regarding the regulation of operating time in our country. As has already been said today, the partnership dialogue at this level in this area has not taken place in our country, and here the country must, here, the State Assembly must protect the weaker member. The weaker article here is shopkeepers. By voting on this proposal, the decision will clearly show a bad light, give a bad light to the national assembly to subdue to the interests of monopolies or the interests of capital. Comrade Kavčič, 20,000 jobs are under question, you said earlier in your performance. Pure demogogia. Buying power is as much as it is. The deviations are just a percentage up, down. And not fool this national assembly or the Slovenian public. Frankly, if this proposal for a decision is adopted, it will also be a very bad message to the initiators for the invitation to a legislative referendum. The president of the National Assembly also called an informal discussion last week on this topic in relation to the National Assembly, the parties as well as the initiators for the call for a preliminary [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the referendum. [[...]] We have already made a lot of mistakes at this level of regulation of operating time relations. Again, I would like to point out that we are no longer going to these games, and I appeal to the President of the National Assembly to sign this proposal for a decision as soon as possible; I am convinced that the interests of certain political forces in this country are such that they do not want to regulate a weaker article in this chain and do not want to protect the consumer. That is why I think that there will probably be no other solution, as in fact, unfortunately, although it is the responsibility of the national assembly to arrange for this issue to be settled at the referendum and for voters to decide on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u187	Colleagues and colleagues, we have thus concluded a list of those who have complied with the business provision in the announcement - because we will slowly, just to explain where we are now - those who have applied. Let me inform you that, during this time, Comrade Podobnik, or on behalf of the Group of Members, has tabled an amendment to the decision on behalf of the Group of Members. In the preamble, the words are deleted; I quote: "and taking into account the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia No. U-31037 of 20. 3. 2003," concludes the quote. This proposal by way of an explanation, we are now also putting this amendment on the table. The amendment being tabled now allows us to proceed with the debate, as set out in the Rules of Procedure without prior notice. Now, I'm going to put my word in order - of course, on the amendment. Now, I'll give. You had, I will, replica. You were mentioned so that you had the right to her, and then just to explain, because there were a few deadlines. The debate is possible. Okay, first the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. It may be an acknowledgment of the number of jobs. Yes, 20,000 jobs are at risk, not only in big trade, but it is also important to be aware of the large number of jobs with independent entrepreneurs, individuals who can barely manage the economy of trading. The idea that the purchase is strong in one way or another, because it does not matter what is done, is, of course, at odds with the fundamental logic of the market economy. Why do you think, dear fellow Rokavec, that so many millions of dollars are invested in speeding up sales? Why are so many millions of tolars invested in promoting, i.e. improving selling venues, different instruments of market communication? Because it doesn't matter how the store works, how it's equipped, what's the working time, what's the supply technique? It doesn't matter either! This is a market economy - and it would be very good to be aware of this - a market economy where competition instruments work and we want to manage it socially. However, the market mechanisms must not be subjected to violence. It is therefore necessary to be aware, first of all, of the market legality that operates in trade. Of course, they tried to deal with the market economy in the past with violence, such as in the central economy and some other attempts, and these attempts did not end well. This is therefore a serious issue and it does not matter how qualitative and how trade offers its products and services to consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u189	At your performance, Comrade Kavčič, several hands were raised. Only one has the right to a replica because you were called a replica? [[...]] You can't, I'm sorry. I have to be clear, you can't, now it's only possible to give a replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u190	If this always applies, I'll be very happy, but never apply, except for me!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u191	Please don't go into this discussion unless I give you my word. Look, a few hands were raised. Let me explain again, please. For the replica, only colleague Rokavec has the option and right now because his colleague Kavčič named him; he will probably explain his view. I repeat, there are no others on the list that should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the previous notice. However, the amendment has been tabled, and I will open the debate after the general debate and it will be an opportunity for you to explain your views in a commercially acceptable manner. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I'll explain, buddy. Of course, free economic competition, normally, but with legality and respect for others, not only the owners of capital, but also the workers. Here we are turning into a slave-ownership order in the area of trade, Comrade Kavčič! And the Europe we want to go into and into has a clear situation here between each other. There is also the possibility of a partnership. With us, at the beginning of capitalism, this is not yet the case, so the country has to cut down here. Visit shops or shops for at least one day a week to rest. We prevent them from doing so with such ignorance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u193	Replica, just a replica, 'cause Aya, sorry! [[...]] Yeah, that's not possible, that's not possible! I'm sorry, it's not possible. I'm sorry. It's not possible to replicate the replica. I apologize. Look, we have an amendment tabled by our colleague Sponik. Procedural? I'm just saying, let me get this straight. The general debate is closed. We have an amendment tabled for the decision of the National Assembly. [[You've got him in front of you.]] , the applicant is a colleague of Podobnik. My friend Potts wants to talk about him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment, Comrade Podobnik. Indeed, it is the basis for our decision-making referred to in paragraphs 15 and 16, and on this basis we will take decisions. As far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, it is said, "and takes account of the decision". Thus, we know that we have received it on the basis of the first decisions we have read it and we are also taking this decision into account, but not as the only basis, and that is correct for me. That's right for me. However, I would like to say again why I supported the proposal for a decision. Because I have allowed myself to ask myself, in view of the contacts we have had, what is the opinion of the referendum's proposers. And I got their statement. She may not be like this today because she was acquired three or four days ago. They would like to take advantage of any opportunity to provide a preliminary explanation that they would not have been aware that they had asked questions or requested a referendum on something which would not later be allowed or would later be attacked before the Constitutional Court, or by the parties of the owners in the store or anyone else because they wanted to settle the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u195	Four of the debaters I hope I have been paying proper attention, Comrade Drobnič, Jerovska, Tsukjati and Podobnik. Let's go in a row, Comrade Petty Officer. Anybody else want a word? My friend Anderlich. I'm sorry. Excuse me? Please, you have the word Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain my vote on this amendment and on the report. I will not support this amendment because nothing helps this matter, report and proposal, because it makes no sense, because it is purely a lingering and mockery of those who must work seriously, and we are shopping here. This is not worth this national council. I'm telling you, it's pure stallion and restraint and laughter. The first initiative before the Constitutional Court was not serious. Now you're going to supplement this, and then you're going to have to go back to the Constitutional Court to make the Constitutional Court our service because we have to do something, and people don't like to do it to put this hot potato on someone else. Excuse me, in this case, the National Assembly has the decisive word to define this public interest. People have decided on this issue because we have not responded to their demands. A law has been introduced into the National Assembly, and if we were to take this law seriously, there would be no complications. I think people here are gonna give us an extra slap. He gave us the Constitutional Court a slap, and now he's gonna give us that. But this proposal by Mr Sponik does not change, does not change, does slightly improve, but the facts remain the same. I am against these acts that do not confer dignity on this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek. Behind you, comrade Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. This amendment tabled by Mr Podobnik is trying to protect the integrity of the Constitutional Court and, of course, on this side, it is good that any institution and the Constitutional Court are being abused here constantly. Even today, there are other conclusions about achieving certain goals. However, Members of the House here should also protect the dignity of this National Assembly. The Constitutional Court gave an ear to such legal opinions, such a decision as was taken in this House. However, in the name of the capital capital, the monopoly is constantly being pushed forward. There are no obstacles, there are no brakes, you don't see them, and you don't respect them. I wonder why you're even explaining why you're on the side of an emissary. It is known that you have never been on the side of a worker and a farmer. You've shown this in two votes today. We'd wrap our necks on every worker and every farmer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u199	Could I have your attention in my words, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u200	Yeah, sure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u201	Comrade Jerovšek, you can return to the debate on the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u202	You need catharsis of your awareness of your conduct, you haven't been on the side of a small man in a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u203	Comrade Tsukati, behind him colleague Podobnik and Anderlič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. The amendment tabled by colleague Podobnik does not solve the essential problem of this conclusion and the essential problem of our attitude towards the problems faced by traders, sellers. When we decided that questions were being referred to the Constitutional Court, we made it clear that there could certainly not be a principle or a threat to the principle of a free economic initiative, as you have called and argued. If this was and we wanted to protect this free economic initiative in this way, then we should, not just talk about holidays and Sundays, nothing, leave to the employer to do what he wants, nothing should be said about leave, nothing about working hours, weekly working hours, 40 hours a week. Let the employer go, let the economic initiative go free, and let people work again after 16 hours, like 200 years ago. That's behind the logic of your thinking, and that's a problem for me. However, in order to go to the Constitutional Court with the question that we do not know where to protect the worker and where to look after this free economic initiative, we are smiling, clearly. The answer is everything. Now that there is no longer this argument, we find something new: it is unclear that circumstances must be stated and so on. Again someone, excuse me, some diversion, some stallion, some speculation, some fling of pollen to shopkeepers who want to get to their rights. If I had any sense of this, if we were to adopt these problems, and we didn't need a referendum, we'd legitimize the seller's right to a Sunday break if we had any sense of the people doing this. And sometimes, gentlemen, even in the face of other problems, I'm really ashamed to be in this national council, which has somehow gotten together with capital owners.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u205	Comrade Sponik and Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much, President. When I was writing this amendment, I expected the debate to be a little longer, because I was going to table another amendment. None of the discussers mentioned constitutional dispute, nor did any of them. I wanted to propose that we delete an article that speaks of the constitutional dispute from the preamble because it is wrong to write it down because no one has mentioned it and we have no material to talk about constitutional dispute. But unfortunately, this is where the procedure happens on its own, overtakes us. But of course, because nothing happens, we're where we are. There are two reasons that led me to this amendment. The first is that the decision is a constitutional court, not a decision, we are talking about a decision, you were talking about a decision earlier, I went to see what decision you had in mind. At first I thought that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which was in the first part of the sentence, then I understood that when you were talking about the decision, you meant a decision. Well, we also have to be precise here because we have a decision and we have conclusions. The Constitutional Court's decision first rejects our previous decision, the previous initiative, for procedural reasons. At the same time, however, it is incorrect for the Constitutional Court to state in the preamble the decision of the Constitutional Court and its points from which it is clear that we must not abuse the procedure and at the same time refer to the motioners regarding the lack of clarity and shortcomings and the constitutional dispute. Read point 11! It would be correct to ask those who feel that anything is unclear or that it is insufficiently justified to ask them to do so. For this Decision states: "In view of the way the National Assembly justifies possible non-compliance with the Constitution, it can even be concluded that it would consider that the referendum question would be in accordance with the Constitution if the initiative were more appropriately justified." This is the only thing from this debate to understand, nothing else. So, Mr President, I say to the record that this path is incorrect again. Not one of the discussers - I did not get any new material to question anyone's constitutionality or questions or explanations. Well, not just that! Dear colleagues of the United Nations have said that there is nothing unconstitutional. However, we support that we turn to the applicants to explain something that might not be constitutional. Don't you think that's wrong with them? You're sure there's nothing against the Constitution, but let's ask them again! I want to tell you that I think this procedure is wrong. In me, there has been a decision in these days: my vote to change the constitution, which is bound to the referendum, will not. He won't be here! Do you know why he won't be here? Because it's happening bypass now! Those who wanted to make such a change now tell you what the practice would be, how to determine areas on which the referendum should not be. Because it's not in the constitution and because it's not in the law, the procedure is abused. We have put in place the practice of negotiating with the constitutional initiative proponents! We meet them, we negotiate, we invent a whole new path. Therefore, I believe that, out of respect for the institution of the Constitutional Court, it is right to delete from the preamble the decision of the Constitutional Court, because it is unfair for them to write it in a preamble. And if there is a procedure, President, if it is possible to reopen the debate, let us delete Article 16 of the preamble, which speaks of constitutional dispute. If the Constitutional Court looks at the debate, if it comes to it, it will find that no one has mentioned it in the debate, and we are, of course, speaking to the proponents in the explanatory memorandum again in order to make it a constitutional dispute - but no one mentions it!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u207	My friend Anderlich. A replica? Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Sponik, you must have thought of me, too, when you said "United List"? [[So do I.]] Thank you very much. Then I can talk. I mentioned both things in the introduction: the fact that we will support it, and the fact that we do not think it is constitutional. At the same time, I said, Mr Podobnik, that they had warned whether this would be constitutional or not, was given by others in the previous debate when we sent the decision to the Constitutional Court. I understand the decision that we are taking today - not only do I say that you will all agree with me - but only by stating, on the basis of the additional explanations we have received, that there is nothing unconstitutional and start collecting signatures, or by drawing up a decision in which we will make it clear and decisively stated, "the National Assembly considers that the prepared initiative to call for a referendum is unconstitutional, for these and these reasons, and proposes to the Constitutional Court that it be judged". Until we do so, we are not talking about this being unconstitutional, but we are allowing this option on the basis of a decision of the last time. That's my explanation. I'm not saying it's the right one. In addition, I said that this was something we had not yet done in the parliamentary investigation procedures. If we followed Articles 15 or 16 consistently, we should not have done so, because after 15 years we were late, and after 16 we received the answer that we were doing bad because we did not explain exactly to the Constitutional Court what we are assessing as unconstitutional. And that's what we want to fix. If anyone assures me, or if we are able to say today that we will no longer open this issue and that the signature collection begins and we will not be able to open the signatures together, if they are to open the signatures, I will not be disturbed. But I say it again, I'm afraid of it, so I'd rather ask the question, get further explanations and see what we do. In this part, I can consider this to be a game played by this National Assembly over the ordinary rules of the parliamentary investigation. But as for me, colleagues and colleagues, 14 days in the event of an invitation to tender or no invitation to tender in this case, I do not think there is a disproportionate time in which this could not be done. If a referendum is to take place, it is not essential that this moment, some time in which it should be done; whether then the gathering will take place a week earlier or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u209	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u210	Although I applied earlier, because I claim and also think that the only such interpretation is the right that all points which are identical, i.e. conclusions, declarations and the like, must follow the same procedure. Yesterday there was no announcement of time, today you did it, please, at least within 24 hours have the same criteria. This is where you fucked him up again. Why, I don't know, but I can talk about it another time. As far as this amendment is concerned. I won't support him. Mr Potz has said a lot now again, and I think it is right to take the decision that is proposed. Not just because of what's been said here. Mr Rokavec quoted a meeting with Mr President and Mr Drobnic was present. But, Mr. Rokavec, there was another meeting, followed by representatives of your parliamentary group and all the social partners, namely government representatives, union representatives and representatives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u211	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Only one has a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u212	Yes, but in the meantime, that's how the Rokavek spoke, so others spoke about some of the allegations, and they were obviously deceiving this assembly, and I want to explain it. Mr Sok, Mr Drobnic has been deceiving and I am explaining to him because he was also at one of these meetings, that it was the one wish of all of them to talk further and seek solutions. And they say they're looking for them this week. I would like to say this to Mr Tsukati when he discusses this amendment and he has discussed the amendment. But he talked about typical machism that men want to have women at home for stoves on Sundays to cook their lunches. What about the vendors who work on Sundays?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u213	Good. Look, that's what we used to exhaust that list I had reported. Comrade Squirrel wants a word. Please, Comrade Petty Officer. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'd like to come by again. More than an explanation. My colleague Potts spoke substantively about the item on the agenda. A lot of people didn't talk about the agenda. I would understand, you know, in parliamentary democracy, the procedure is actually the essence of everything. Today must not be a debate whether we are in favour or against the openness of trade on Sunday. That's not on the agenda. Today's decision and procedure in this case introduces some practice that will apply to the following initiators. We have established it. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Now it won't matter what you suggest, it will matter what position you have in Parliament, which parties support you, how many days they give you. [[...]] I'm against it. But what I'm trying to say is, my esteemed colleague Potch, I have a different position. According to my assessment today, the National Assembly at this point of the agenda did not receive any material from which it would be clear that anyone objected to the dispute over Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, which speaks [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u215	My friend Pukšič, I ask for peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u216	on any constitutional dispute. [[...]] My opinion is that our final debate and materials are no longer relevant. At least we didn't win them! Excuse me! The arguments were also poor, unconvincing. No one supported them. My colleagues even said they didn't hold it, but we'll move on. So there won't be a misunderstanding. In this case, the National Assembly may not play. There's no game allowed here. Today we're playing like this, in two months we're gonna play another game. And we will increasingly play, and in this way we will ultimately abuse the instrument of the previous legislative referendum. We're on the right track for this to happen. I would remind you of an incredible procedure, when we had already called for the time to collect signatures, and from somewhere the first initiator came a few thousand of them, and he just withdrew because there was a signed 'deal' to adopt the law. I would point to this point, and I think, colleagues and colleagues, that it would be correct for this decision today to adopt that the preamble would not refer to Article 16 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, but only to the 15th, which refers to ambiguity or incomplete explanation. That would be correct. However, we must not proceed today from Article 16. If this happens to the Constitutional Court, the trial will fall again. I'm sure that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u217	Look, since no one has been reported, I would like to say one thing to the National Assembly, because in the end I, too, am proposing this decision. I don't know if you've been paying attention, if you haven't, I'd like to do it again now. Because I was aware of the sensitivity and my responsibilities, because the law imposes this on me in the decisions relating to the referendum initiatives, I said for the first time when I decided on my role, that I was relying solely on the views of the legal service. This will be the case for all decisions related to such initiatives. And as far as these initiatives are concerned, I, as the President to whom the matter is addressed, never act in accordance with my or other political views. I always rely on the views of the legal service. This time she suggested that the National Assembly decide. That is how the Vice-President, who was then head of the National Assembly, decided. The National Assembly ruled, sent it to the Constitutional Court, and we got it back, and again the Legal Service advised this procedure. So far it's clear. If most will take this decision, then we will call the initiators in line with it. If most people reject the decision, I'll call a deadline for collecting signatures. And nothing else. Please, let's move on to the decision. We have an amendment tabled by Comrade Podobnik. Let me remind you, in the preamble, the words are deleted; I quote: "and take account of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia No. U31/037 of 20.3.2003". Explanation of the vote by Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Neither the amendment nor the proposal for a decision will I support. The fact is that we have talked enough about this issue since we adopted the law and warned about the problems and what might happen. But I am deeply convinced that Monday to Saturday is enough days when a person takes care of, in saying, "for bread," and Sunday is the day when a person takes care of the bread. However, from Monday to Saturday at the shopping center, on Sunday we leave the citizens and citizens of this country to choose a temple where they will provide for, again in the cry "for bread" for spiritual bread in the temple they want. This is either within the family or anywhere else, even within the church. Let's give them that opportunity, that's what we have to ensure. Therefore, against the amendment and against the conclusion, and I hope that this referendum will come again because of the ignorant attitude towards the warnings we have already discussed in the marriage and that people will decide. Today, I will tell you that this referendum will be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then the National Assembly will proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendment tabled by Comrade Podobnik to the preamble to the decision of the national assembly to delete those words in the preamble. We're voting. 53 present, 10 for and 38 for. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment was not accepted. We will now decide on a further proposal for a decision. Once again, there will be no confusion. If it's accepted, I'll call the workers' union, if it's rejected, I'll call a deadline to collect signatures. Please vote. 56 present, 35 for and 20 against. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 20.]] This decision is thus adopted and concluded by this item on the agenda and, for today, by the work of the State Assembly, which will continue tomorrow. Oh, sorry, there's one more thing. I don't have that in mind. This is the third reading of the seventh point. I apologize to everyone. It wasn't here in my script. We're in third reading. A full discussion of the law is possible. Anybody want a word? The proposed amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which a colleague of Kramberger wishes to explain. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In short, I would like to explain two amendments to the third reading of the proposed law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. The first amendment is merely editorial, the second amendment to Article 23. Here we have summarized the amendment of colleague Lidija Majnik's amendment, which remains the first to be co-owner, second to the preliminary right is the neighbour, you are a limiter and third to the tenant. There are also provisions that the government has also confirmed.This is the distance of 20 kilometers from the land that is for sale in the fourth and also in the sixth. I propose to colleagues and colleagues that we adopt this amendment and then the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague Sok. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very sorry that this amendment, proposed by our colleague Lydia, has been adopted. It is clear that this opens the door to agricultural organisations, under a cover of 3,200 employees. If the proposal was that pre-paid beneficiaries were employees of these agricultural organisations, I would still understand the good purpose of this decision. But since there's something completely different behind this, unclean, I'd say, some manipulation, and that's the way I'm most strongly opposed to doing it. What the Slovenian People's Party is now proposing is actually just some kind of cosmetic repair, I could say, some little beautiful dot on a hairy nose. I simply cannot buy such a proposal, respected colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party. This ruling coalition is in fact a major disaster for this country and it seems that in this direction, when you subjugated the entire economy, as I could understand Mr Booth last night on TV, you have now decided to obtain the best Slovenian agricultural land. This is not in line with the national agricultural development programme. If not otherwise, as the opposition Member, I point out that this will have major consequences for the transport of agricultural land, great consequences. Other countries, such as Denmark, have negotiated a special status within the European Union in the pre-accession negotiations. And we are not able to do so, even more, with such changes we are interfering with that area that has not been constitutionally disputed at all. But the Constitutional Court is in charge of this decision a large part of the blame. This is because it repealed the entire chapter on agricultural transport, not just what was actually unconstitutional. However, the second part of the responsibility is borne by the Slovenian Government, which, in this way, after reduced procedures with some ad hoc debate, decides and amends Slovenian legislation, of course by means of this national assembly. And I will tell you this, Mrs Ptuj, when you said that if you were present in the morning, you would be able to listen to your debate. I know your debate. I heard it on the agriculture committee where we wanted to convince you otherwise. Unfortunately, it failed. You have a pair of scissors and a canvas through this number of deadlines in this House. The president of our party has already said that you will probably make this world in some kind of square form. Well, you can do it if you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u223	Thank you. John Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u224	Thank you, Vice President. I will support the amendment under point 1 proposed by the Group of Members. The amendment referred to in point 2 shall also apply. This amendment also truly follows the agreement in full in the coalition, which was mentioned once today by respected colleagues. I do not like the practice of speaking out here publicly about how the coalition negotiations have been conducted, but it is now, this amendment fully follows this agreement. However, I would like to ask my respectable colleague Majnik because you have said several times today that you will support the amendment that solves this very issue in order to vote free from the law. I'd like to ask you honestly whether you're really going to vote against the law. It must be stated from the responsibility in this area that, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court from 28 March onwards, there is a so-called legal void in this area. Responsibility for a legal void will ultimately be the responsibility of the Member and Members of the National Assembly, if the law is not adopted in such or otherwise. In our view, the content of this amendment is such that it could receive support and then the law would be adopted I would like to draw attention to another matter, which is the relationship between Slovenia and the European Union. This law lays down a sensitive issue which, of course, relates to ownership and ownership. If, at some point in an area, a void occurs, the European Union could understand that this is our political decision to completely relax something. Then, a few months later, we brought new restrictions back on the basis of law and we will be in violation of European Union law. And we can already target procedures in the European Union. So, colleague Majnik, I hope that you will no longer insist, on the basis of this amendment, on whether or not she will vote, you will not support the law. However, if that were the case, we would want to be responsible for the response of those services referred to earlier by the president of the national assembly to which he relies. What would the legislator mean in terms of such an important area as transport with agricultural land is, say, a monthly legal void. That's the first question. Second question: What would then be the relationship between Slovenia-European Union on the basis of the Association Agreement and all negotiated procedures relating to real estate and, in particular, agricultural land? The answers to these questions should, in my view, be received by Members and Members before the decision is taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I don't see any more desire for a debate. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendments. Mr Podobnik suggested that the legislative and legal service should clarify whether this would create a legal void, so that the national assembly would draw attention to this. So I would ask if we could get this answer - if the assembly so decides. Comrade Sponik, are you proposing to the National Assembly that it be decided? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u226	Mr Vice-President, I have expressed my position and I believe that the consequences of, say, non-admission of the law and the fact that the Constitutional Court ruling is in force on 28 March - I leave the party responsible for the fact that we have come into time distress. I can also be self-critical, but self-criticism stops here and the responsibility of the National Assembly begins. I believe that because my colleague Majnikov announced, I myself understood, even on behalf of the Group of Members, that the law would not receive the majority, so that they would reject it, then means that the de facto State Assembly is deliberately creating a legal void. I believe, Vice-President, and thank you for understanding my legitimate concern that the moment has come to ask representatives of those we trust and pay for it whether it is permissible to do so, and we will do so knowingly. Well, not just that! To ask in particular - this is an even more sensitive question and I must tell you that this has not grown on my pupil, I have consulted with experts who know the new European law at a time when the legislator has released something, and this has proved his political decision, and this is true. If we reintroduce new restrictions, we are already in some way in relation to European Union law in this area and there will be major problems. Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to allow us to get answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u227	Thank you. Still a fellow Kramberger? [[No, no, ……]] This was a procedural proposal that I will put to the decision of the National Assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 73, I propose that the National Assembly vote on whether the legislative and legal service is required to provide an adequate explanation as to the possible occurrence of the legal void that was discussed and warned by colleague Janez Podobnik. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. We will repeat the vote. If the service is ready to give an opinion right away, we'll get it right away. Then we'll take a break or we'll make a decision tomorrow. Let's re-vote! We're voting. 54 present, in favour of 24 votes against 24. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendments. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under number one. We are voting on amendment number one. 53 present, in favour of 19 votes against 26. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I'm also putting an amendment under number two to the vote. We're voting. 52 present, 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment under number two has been accepted. I'm asking the law enforcement department if the law is inconsistent. It's not out of sync. Just a minute. You can tell the microphone if the law is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u228	We've consulted with the government. According to our joint reviews of the amendments adopted, we believe that everything is fine and that there is no non-compliance between the legal provisions. There's no disharmony in the law. The law is mutually agreed upon in its solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u229	Thank you very much. We heard an opinion. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes to consult with the law enforcement department. [[Talking to each other.]] Just a minute. Legal and legal services claim that the law is fine, that it is not inconsistent. We still want the government's opinion. Secretary of State, please. Do you want it or not? [[No, no, ……]] [[Talking to each other.]] Mr State Secretary, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Government may also say whether it considers that the law is inconsistent with the amendments adopted. Please make this public.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u230	I'm in sync.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u231	In the opinion of the Secretary of State, the law is harmonised. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u232	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to do it again. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] We're laughing here, but I think it's very serious. The warning given by Lidija Majnikova and her colleague, Tonet Anderlič, that they would not support the marriage is serious. I would have warned you about that. Look, if this happens, there won't be a third chapter that the Constitutional Court has annulled. Some of you will wave a calm soul with your hand at this point, because there will be no traffic. That's not true. The first thing is, Comrade Podobnik, when he said that with this we cancelled the priority lease and we might reinstate it sometime, but to that I am skeptical if we do so now. The issue of conflict also arises between other laws, such as the law on the succession of agricultural land. What does that mean, the inheritance of protected farms? The inheritance of protected farms is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u233	Please don't disturb the debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u234	So you can't inherit protected farms, but you can sell them. This is also an issue that the legal service should explain here. By the time chapter three is gone, we have opened the door wide so that everyone, all of them, can buy agricultural land from strangers and everyone who invents it. If there is no chapter 3, I warn you. In addition, the administrative unit will not have any records because they will not give consent to legal business and will only be recorded in the notaries and in the courts.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u235	Please, I'm warning you on time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u236	The Constitutional Court has also abolished the maximum so that, in fact, there are now all the conditions that can be achieved in the exercise of magnificence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u237	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u238	and it will obviously be necessary to ask Slovenian citizens whether the Slovenian country is still a national interest. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u239	Mr Kramberger, thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u240	Thank you very much. It is difficult to decide how to vote in such a case that is inexplicable, incomprehensible, and how it would be necessary for cameras to be turned on today to see how we behave or how you behave.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u241	Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u242	I explain my vote, Mr Vice President. We're in a difficult situation now. You have voted on amendments that are not good, which are contrary to the 1993 declared agricultural policy, and on the other hand you have announced that you will not support the law. How do you decide? If we support the law, we will support those bad solutions that you have brought in through the amendment, if we do not support it, and if you do not support it, the law will fall and legal vacuum will arise. Because of this dilemma, which I have now highlighted, I request, on behalf of the Group of Members, a 15-minute recess in order to decide and agree on how to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u243	Thank you very much. First, I would like to ask if anyone else would like to explain to the vote before this recess that we should just go to the vote. [[Nobody.]] [[The voices in the background.]] There'll be a break before the vote. [[The voices in the background.]] Nobody wants to explain their voice. Before the vote, you will be given a recess and after the adjournment you can explain how you decided. 15 minutes' rest. At 7:18 p.m., we resume the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u244	Time of rest is up. The SDS delegation, which requested a 15-minute recess before the vote, I give the floor if they want to explain their vote. Representative, Comrade Franz Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the time we were given a break, we weighed and decided between two bad decisions for the less bad. We've decided to uphold the law. We are also at risk of changing the coalition's predicted decision. We are aware of this, everything is possible in this National Assembly. However, we could avoid it, or we could certainly avoid it, if our request for a direct transfer of the meetings of the National Assembly were to be taken into account today, then everything would be different. On behalf of the members of the Slovenian Coalition, I declare that we will support this law and thus express our own state- and opposition attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-26-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u246	Thank you. I am fully putting the bill on the table before I asked if anyone else would like to explain their vote. [[...]] The ones you wanted, you can give it to you then I give an exceptional word to you, if you are, but I didn't see. [[...]] I conclude my explanation of vote. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the law as a whole. At 55, he voted 25 to 27. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude the agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night!
