ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u1	We will begin the 24th session of the National Assembly. I called on her on the basis of Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Some of our colleagues and colleagues are away. While I apologize, allow me to ask you again to take your seats and do not disturb the beginning of the session. Please, if you're so kind as to occupy your seats. Colleagues Barovic, Battelli, Čebulj, Juban, Jelinčič, Kangler, Lenko, Marshič and Zląb apologize for the absence from the meeting. I've invited the Prime Minister of Mags to the meeting. Robbery to item 1 and government representatives to the remaining items of the agenda and the representative of the Judicial Council to item 22 of the agenda. We will first set the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, we will decide on withdrawals and enlargements. I have not received any proposals to withdraw within the deadline of business, but I have before me a proposal to extend the agenda. Ambassador Jožef Školč proposes an extension of the agenda by addressing the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Iraqi crisis. You received an extension proposal by letter dated 24th this month. I'm asking if the motioner wants a word. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Please, fellow schoolboy, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that the National Assembly owes it in some way to both the domestic public and the international public to adopt a position related to what we say today in the Iraqi crisis. My proposal may be flawed and does not cover all the dimensions of this crisis, so I expect that part of the debate will take place in the Committee on International Relations. However, this proposal is clear on two key points: in condemning the attack on Iraq without the mandate of the United Nations and in urging the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do everything in its power to bring this problem back into the hands of the United Nations. I believe that our national authorities and individuals have acted tactfully when they have regretted the various facts associated with this problem. However, if we are to lay the groundwork for a consistent solution to such and similar problems in the international community, it is necessary to adopt a more clear and binding position for the National Assembly on the visa of this attack. This is the content of this initiative, and this is the basis that can actually give the National Assembly a future opportunity to insist on the principles of international law and on this principle, to try to resolve international conflicts through the intervention of the United Nations and, in particular, the Security Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u3	Does the only representative of the government want a word on this proposal for enlargement? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They've got three minutes to do this. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we support the extension of the agenda with the proposed item, with approximately the same content as that given by Mr Školč. It seems reasonable for us to define a national assembly to address this issue, namely the attack on Iraq. Some definitions have been tried by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but its definitions are such that they do not reflect the true will. Because we fear that both the Slovenian and the foreign public would consider the argument or consider the only statement made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is unequivocal, we propose or support the classification of the agenda item in order to define the national assembly to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u5	Is there another group that wants a word? A representative of the SLS Group, Comrade Podobnik, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you, President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is also right that the National Assembly, with a special declaration or declaration, gives its view to such a sensitive and complex event as the disarmament of Iraq. The practice to date was that such declarations were generally made in the working bodies to include all those bodies that exist in the normal functioning of the national assembly before they came to the meeting of the National Assembly. In our view, this very dry declaration, which has only two sentences, is only a basis, a framework on which the working body is likely to produce a more in-depth and more imaginative declaration. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u7	Any other parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] Does the applicant want an additional explanatory proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will then vote on this proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a declaration of the Assembly on the Iraqi crisis. Please. We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a declaration by the Assembly on the Iraqi crisis. Objection due to the voting device. Please, my friend Rupar. I will put this to the vote again because I was warned that you raised your hand in time, so before the vote expired. It is always necessary to double-check, triple-check, repeatedly. I will once again put forward a proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting! Present 73, 65 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have adopted a proposal to extend the agenda by addressing the proposal for a declaration of the assembly on the Iraqi crisis. I propose to the Assembly that the agenda be extended by considering a proposal for a decision on the initiative of the trade union of Slovenia to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the trade law. You know the procedure in this regard. As President of the National Assembly, which has the obligation under the law to decide on the role we have received from the initiators, I must decide on the issue. The National Assembly, as you know, decided at its last session to give this matter to the Constitutional Court. We received a decision from the Constitutional Court Friday afternoon. I have asked the competent services of the National Assembly, in particular legislative and legal, to advise me on what was necessary in this respect. I therefore propose that we extend the agenda. I am putting forward a proposal for a decision to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption to invite instigators to supplement the content of the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on this law accordingly. First of all, I'm going to suggest that the agenda item expands. If the National Assembly decides not to put this item on the agenda, this will automatically mean that I will set a time limit for collecting signatures for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a trade law. I saw a hand in explaining the position of the SDS Group. Please. Procedural? Please. Procedurally takes precedence over others.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u8	It's nothing, so I didn't object. Mr President, I propose that before each meeting we always check the voting devices first. From the meeting, we find that a card or a voice is missing, and it would be appropriate to check that this would not result in such anger or the discomfort of the Members, as well as of those who are conducting this meeting. I therefore propose that, at the beginning of each meeting, the operation of these devices be checked first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u9	Let me assure you that before any session, not only before the meeting, but also before the meeting, the functioning of the voting apparatus is checked every day. So there can be no doubt about it. However, whenever we begin to continue or start a session, everyone can take a closer look at whether the light is burning at the voting machine, which is a sign that it works. A colleague of mags. He wanted to clarify the position of the New Slovenia Group on my proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. In the parliamentary group, we object to this proposal because we consider that this is another step of delaying and undecided behaviour of the State Assembly in this context. Look, no matter how the Constitutional Court was defined, we got that opinion. The National Assembly or college did not or did not do what was necessary. The law's in. This has happened because of the non-salantity and dissipation of side-trackers, and the initiative to call for a referendum, which will also take a lot of money, is completely out of the question. Now, with another manoeuvre that is not necessary, we are working on it. I think that the issue has been quite clearly raised and that the National Assembly or the President should carry out this task. I'm concerned that we had the opportunity, that in January the law was introduced, that by this day it could have been adopted because it had been tabled after a reduced procedure. I don't see how it's gonna get messy. The Constitutional Court can, of course, give an opinion, but it cannot be the Constitutional Court of Servants for something we do not do. And that, in my opinion, is exactly the same thing. The National Assembly must decide what kind of marriage it will have. That's the key. I see no reason, and the other colleagues in the parliamentary group see no reason to delay this matter indefinitely. This also undermines the confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We will therefore vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u11	Comrade Potts, United Nations task force.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When the National Assembly decided on a proposal to ask the Constitutional Court for an opinion about 14 days ago, we abstained mainly from Members and Members of the United Nations. We felt that questions were not controversial from the point of view of the Constitution and that such a question would not be necessary from our point of view. When we read the Constitutional Court decision on Friday, we found that the Constitutional Court considers that the explanation, as prepared by the Office and adopted by the National Assembly, is not sufficient and justified for the Constitutional Court and in some way our opinion was confirmed at that time. However, we acknowledge or say that we have asked the applicants what they think about this additional request and have their opinion that it is their interest, if only possible, to clarify all possible legal questions in advance so that there is no doubt about the content of the decision taken at the national assembly and that they do not therefore object to such a proposal. They believe that if there is any doubt in the National Assembly on the content of the referendum question to show it, it is better now than at any later date when 40,000 signatures were collected and such an option would be, even better if the law were adopted, if anyone else were to propose a constitutional dispute. For this reason, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have decided to support the proposal that is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We also do not support the proposal on the table in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. What is proposed today should be done in a timely manner, or we firmly believe that this pressure of trade workers should not come at all if our national assembly takes a responsible decision when adopting this law. However, since both the majority in Parliament and the legislative service in particular were under the influence of employers and their capital interests, we have come into the situation we are now in. I must remind you that, for the last time, we have warned that the literal opinion of the legislative service is unworthy and that it is incredible to write down something that has arisen under the so pronounced influence of those who have power and power in this country. The legal position should be autonomous. In this case, they weren't. Further confusion of this situation seems pointless and unacceptable to us. The consequences that have been voted on by the majority should be accepted. These consequences, we agree, are not an honour to this national assembly, but the majority here must accept this responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u15	Comrade Podobnik, SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. This opinion of the Constitutional Court, which we received on Friday, if I am not mistaken, gave it to all those who were warned at the meeting of the National Assembly that we had dealt with this issue in a procedural manner. If you remember, some of us also made it public that we simply overstepped the procedure. Unfortunately, we have already reached the content of the decision to be taken by the National Assembly here. We think we're getting ahead of ourselves here. We would rather just decide today to put the item on the agenda. However, this content of the decision is unusual. Such clear commitments have not yet been received by any referendum candidate, as I was supposed to have it this time. And we're going the other way again. We're out of luck with this procedure. President, we didn't have time to consult in the parliamentary group. But the content is already coming to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u17	This goes to the Economic Committee, Comrade Podobnik. We are now deciding only to expand the agenda: whether or not to put this on the agenda, or whether we are processing the decision through the National Assembly. If the National Assembly rejects enlargement, this automatically means that I will set a deadline for collecting signatures.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u18	Does this also mean that there are possible amendments to this decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u19	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Then I can only say that we did not have time to consult fully in the Group of Members. Some feel that this route is not necessary, but some feel that this path is also possible. In any case, let us not again get any meatballs from any important government equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u21	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. We agreed in the parliamentary group because we are patient and do not reject any dialogue as long as it is possible. That is why we will support the proposal for this decision because we believe that the procedure through the working body will be so clear and because I also attended when you, Mr President, had this meeting or representatives of these candidates for the referendum, and I have seen a certain possibility that a certain agreement would be possible with a certain compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u23	Any other parliamentary group would like a word to explain their vote? [[No, no, ……]] As a proposaler, I would just like to point out once again that I think it is right that I have also asked about this opinion in the competent service of the National Assembly, the National Assembly decides by vote whether it supports the extension and therefore processes this solution, or rejects the extension and instructs me to set a deadline in accordance with the law. That's what we're going to decide now. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda and the meetings by considering the proposal for a decision on the initiative of the trade union of Slovenia to apply for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. We're voting! We vote on extending the agenda. There's 70, 49 for and 19 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it we've accepted that. We will now vote on the whole agenda as supplemented by the amendments. I propose that the National Assembly decide on the agenda as a whole. We can decide, please. We're voting! We vote on the establishment of the agenda as a whole. Attending 72, 54 for and 14 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I propose that the agenda item: the proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Iraqi crisis be considered as the 22nd point on Thursday 27 March 2003 after the end of the 22nd item, and therefore the proposal for a decision on the initiative of the Labour Union, sorry, this proposal would be considered on Wednesday 26 March 2003 following the completion of the 8th item as point 22b. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, on Thursday 27 March 2003, following the end of point 22, point 22, the proposal for a declaration, on Wednesday 26 March 2003, following the end of point 22, point 22b: a proposal for a decision on the union initiative. I can therefore conclude that we have concluded with questions relating to the establishment of the agenda. We'll be adjourned by 3 p.m. At 3 p.m., we will be briefly addressed by the President of the European Parliament, and immediately thereafter we will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, questions from Members and Members. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. Allow me to introduce the President of the European Parliament and our friend Pat Cox on behalf of all of us. I also welcome the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union. Allow me to express once again in our common name more than just the satisfaction of the outcome of yesterday's referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Nine of the ten citizens asked voted in favour of joining the European Union and I think it is a fantastic result which, as the President himself will probably say, will be difficult to repeat in the referendums to follow. However, there is a strong message coming from Ljubljana to others who will decide on their perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, we have this pleasant opportunity and also the honour to hear the President of the European Parliament address the State Assembly at such an important historic moment, and as our great friend Pat Cox has said.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u25	Mr President, fellow parliamentarians and from today on, my fellow Europeans! I'm so glad to be here. On behalf of the European Parliament, and also on behalf of all the institutions of the European Union, which I am not directly representing, but I know that I am also speaking on their behalf, I want to say how much we welcome the positive result. We could say the positive verdict given yesterday by the Slovenians at the European referendum. I think that this decisive voice is the result of 12 years of enormous efforts and major changes that have taken place here in Slovenia. I would like to thank you, parliamentarians, for the valuable and very important role you have played, both at the time of the campaign and in particular in preparing the road leading to the European Union. I would like to thank you for the work you have done in translating European legislation into Slovenian legal order in recent years. I think this is a moment when we can all celebrate and I am sure that the outcome of the referendum is also a great incentive for the European Union. In 1972, the Republic of Ireland, where I come from, also held a referendum on the entry into the European Union. Eighty-five percent of the respondents voted for the referendum, and by yesterday we had won the gold medal. However, today I must admit that today Slovenia is the one with the gold medal when voting for the European Union is on the move. It's probably going to stay that way for a while, so congratulations. What you've done is a very important message. This is a message from the people of Slovenia who said: "Yes, we are sure that this is in our interest. We are convinced that this is good for us, that it is good for us to be a member of a wider European family." However, this message is also to all other countries in Central and Eastern Europe that will only organise their referendums. And it's probably a higher result than many expected. However, this is a wonderful case, and I thank you for your leadership in this area. This is also a very important signal given to the wider region of South-Eastern Europe and, in particular, the Western Balkans. I am convinced that you are also bringing with you knowledge of the sensitivity, dynamics and policies of this region. And this is a very strong contribution that you Slovenians can make to the creation of a European Union policy. Now you're like a ray of light for this region. You are now a predecessor in this region, and, in particular, after condemning Mr Djindjic's valuable murder, before recently in Serbia, we need even more stability. Slovenia can lead in this area. This is something that is in your own national and regional interest. This leading role is also in the interest of the wider European Union. Slovenia has now opted for the European Union and has thus come into its very heart. People have decided on European values. Today I have also had time to meet the Committee on Foreign Policy and the European Affairs Commission, and we have talked about the importance of respect for individuals, human rights, minority rights, respect for cultural diversity, solidarity and cohesion. We also talked about respect for the sustainable policy that we follow. And that's what people said yesterday. I've been talking about this since last year when I was on a visit in April. I am sure that your identity, the identity of a small country within the European Union, is an identity that will be further strengthened and will not weaken. Here's what I want to tell you. When your observers come to the European Parliament, and they will be welcome there from May of this year, we will do our best to ensure that you can do your job in your own language. Where we can only do it. Not only out of respect for you, fellow Slovenian parliamentarians, but also out of respect for the citizens of this country who have the right to their cultural identity and also have the right to respect this cultural identity of the institutions of the European Union, at least the European Parliament. I am also convinced that this decision makes it possible to talk about a more effective Slovenia, because you have your independence, which you love, and there is also the interdependence that you decided to have yesterday. It is about representing your own interests in a co-dependent Europe. And that's exactly what adds value to your sovereignty, the sovereignty of a small country. I'm sure it's an experience you'll certainly have. I also think, and I want to tell you this, that the European project is based on equality of cooperation. It's not about meeting big, small and medium-sized. This is where we are equal. Not by number, it is clear that the country of two million inhabitants cannot have the same number of parliamentarians as the country with 80 million inhabitants. But you will be represented in the Council of Ministers, in the European Parliament, which means that you will be present and that you will be able to represent and defend Slovenian interests where this is important. I hope and believe that this principle of equality will apply to all areas of our work and that this will also be confirmed in the Convention on the Future of Europe, led by President Giscard Destain. Last Thursday, I had the honour to speak with the Heads of State and Government of 15 Member States of the European Union at a meeting at the Brussels Summit. I told them we can't lose sight of the ghost of Copenhagen. I had the honour of being present in Copenhagen in December last year. We talked a lot, there were many negotiations, and these negotiations were also difficult. But in the end, we made a deal. All the leaders gathered together a large flag, where one Europe wrote. There we could feel the achievement that we had done something to bring Europe together and really felt that what we had achieved was important and valuable. In the last 12 weeks, since the Copenhagen meeting ahead, I have been repeatedly shocked, especially when the drama in Iraq began to unfold, how quickly some have allowed this Copenhagen spirit to somehow get lost and have begun to think again about things that could cause new divisions. We must not go back and let go of this opportunity that Copenhagen has brought. We must not create new qualifications and preconditions, because once you have become members of the European Union, and we know that, you have also become part of a common treaty. If we work together, we'll be stronger. Every new Member State will be stronger and the European Union will be stronger. I am very pleased to tell you, fellow parliamentarians, that we will receive seven representatives of your National Assembly this May. We don't have the names of all seven Members yet, but I am looking forward to finding out who these colleagues will be and I am already looking forward to welcoming your members along with others to the European Parliament, where they will act as observers. I would now like to give my opinion on another issue. Today, here in this country, your media will also write about this and the incredible result of the referendum for the European Union and NATO. Today, too, we were able to monitor images of the war in Iraq on television. I want to tell you that I hope that now that the war has begun, this war will be as short as possible. I also hope that there will be as few victims as possible and as few bloodshed as possible. As we know, this will be a very difficult task. However, I would like to tell you that, according to its preferences, the European Union considers that war is only the last resort. The European Union would rather support multilateral diplomacy and multilateral inspection. The European Union also believes that this has unfortunately gone another way. However, opinions are shared in the European Union as well as in the European Council. And so a Europe that is divided, a world that is divided, such a Europe, such a world has fewer opportunities to influence world events. I hope that we will soon learn something important that we will begin to realize that Europe must come together. Especially with regard to our foreign policy, security and defence. These are our common interests, our common values. And Iraq was not an example of this common understanding and solidarity. In the European Parliament, we were able to agree on the final situation we would like to see in Iraq. This is the removal of weapons of mass destruction. However, we have failed, at least not with us, I do not know how it is with you, we have failed to agree on the means necessary to achieve this objective. We talked about this last Thursday. One of these discussions has shown me that we have opportunities and we have heard speakers who have given their views. We know that we must respect those who think otherwise. Last Thursday, I told the heads of government and the Member States of the European Union that this ability to respect different opinions exists as something that was not clear in the world itself. Those who have differing opinions must at least agree to respect those who disagree. It is very difficult if we have some ambition in Europe to have a more coherent foreign policy to start implementing this policy. This will be difficult if we don't have the essential ingredient. But the essential ingredients are mutual trust. In the last days and weeks, it was essentially a step back. And that was a disappointment for those who firmly believed in United Nations multilaterism. The crisis in Iraq was also a step backwards for the European Union as regards its aspirations, its aspirations for foreign and security policy. It was also a step backwards as far as transatlantic relations are concerned. It's not a disaster, it's just a step back. But we need to learn something from this. The tensions that exist can also be used in a creative way, so that we rebuild what we have lost. Let me remind you what the Treaty says to the Member States. This is a contract to be signed or signed in Athens on April 16th. The Treaty says: "Member States will work together to build and strengthen their mutual solidarity and renounce any action contrary to the interests of the European Union and which could have a negative impact on its effectiveness as a cohesive force in international policy." I am sure that the countries of the European Union have not fulfilled their obligations as regards mutual solidarity in these last weeks. Here in your National Assembly, I would like to invite them from a country that has so strongly said 'yes' to our common European future. I would like to appeal to the 15 existing Member States: "Find a way to express your mutual solidarity." I think we can also think about the way to do that. I've already mentioned one path, that's the spirit of expansion, the spirit of Copenhagen. Secondly, there is a common interest for stability and for the European vision, for stability in Southeast Europe. Here you can help Europe as a leading country in this area and you can guide and help achieve this stability. And the third is to try to achieve multilateralism. We have signed a Kyoto Protocol in Europe and have been leading in this area. We were also leading the establishment of an international criminal court. I am sure, and as a European policy, I would be more inclined to the legal processes, the processes provided by the international criminal position, than to have the Gulf of Guatemala. A few years ago, it was written this cliché: "The United States is afraid, the United Nations is feeding and the European Union is funding." I think we need to do more at the international level. Every day, every hour now we witness a war. War technology, weapons, all this is much more advanced than the software needed for peace. However, in the European Union, we do know something about how to refrain from peace and yet we know something about how to build peace and that is why we must not be afraid and show our knowledge and defend our values in this area. We know what the problems are in establishing peace. Think of Afghanistan, the post-war situation, the situation in your immediate vicinity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Kosovo, how very difficult it is to bring about lasting peace. I think we will also have to look at the humanitarian situation in Iraq, then we will have to think about rebuilding Iraq. A common European voice will be needed here. So let us not be divided in the next phase if we have already been divided when it comes to deciding the war, or we may have to lose something again. I wouldn't want you to misunderstand my comments. I'm an advocate of transatlantic connections. However, I strongly believe that a united Europe that can work with the United States can achieve better results at global, international level than if the United States of America and the European Union worked separately. The common foreign and security policy is extremely important. We really need to do everything we can to make it better. It has been a long time since we have worked in peace in the Middle East, so we must also help our American friends to regain peace in the Middle East. This is also in our interest because we are neighbours of this area. It's also a moral thing to do. The unresolved conflicts in the Middle East are like cancer in our Western and Arab relations. Such unresolved conflicts are fertile fields for terrorists tomorrow and today. Mr President, I apologize if I have slightly exceeded what was meant to be done. But lastly, I would like to say that I am convinced that there is great power in unity - in our European idea, in our European idea. We have created a vision of the real world, but we have not yet found a way of actually realizing this vision in the field of foreign policy. Iraq knocks on our door, knocks on the door of our conscience and forces us to start thinking about what we can do better. Fellow parliamentarians, fellow Europeans! I was glad to be here yesterday and to see that 9 out of 10 people voted to say yes, we believe in these values. I've got new energy, and today I'm leaving Slovenia with good feelings. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Those whom you have voted for, and respected parliamentarians and citizens of Slovenia, I would like to say, welcome home to where you have always belonged. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, President. We wish you all the best. Let's get back to work. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. I'd like to apologize here, at least that's how I got the memo, Minister of the Information Society, Dr. Paul Gantar, Minister without a Resource, in charge of regional development, mag. Zdenko Kovac, and Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Marble. I invite the Prime Minister, mag. Anton Rope to come to the big hall. He will answer the first three questions of representatives of members of the opposition groups. Mag. I now welcome the robbery, Prime Minister, in the National Assembly, as well as the ministers and ministers. Can the National Assembly continue its work? May I have your attention, please? I'm asking for peace in the hall. The first question will be raised by counterpart Saša Pece to the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u27	Your Honors are here! I am sorry, Mr President, that you were not present, Prime Minister, at the address of the President of the European Parliament. In his second part, he told quite a few truths, which I think the Slovenian government should be aware of. Allow me to approach the question. We estimate that Slovenian policy is ready to do exactly what it does for American kindness to us. You supported the Slovenian government a long time ago and authorized the so-called Vilnius Declaration. A declaration that the Slovenians place us in countries that belong to Iraqi attackers by name: a great coalition. At the time of signing this declaration, the government tried to reduce the significance of this declaration and the signing and accession of Slovenia to these countries. All parties, except the National Party and the Young People's Party, have also tried to demonstrate their deep disagreement with your Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rupl. But of course, interpellation due to the fact that the opposition has only eight votes to this national council cannot succeed. We wanted to show the following fact that Slovenia does not and cannot agree with the attack on Iraq. This is especially true for two reasons. First, because of our relationship with ourselves, politicians with the Slovenes and with the Slovenians. In particular, because we are assessing that the signatures of government representatives should not satisfy just certain arms lobbyings and the American interest in this country. And secondly, because we estimate that Slovenia is destroying its reputation abroad. This country uses billions of Slovenian tolars to create some kind of credibility abroad, for better economic integration and similar things. By signing the statement, you have thrown us into a place where we will be very difficult to dig from. The President of the European Parliament also said that Europe should be uniform in terms of cross-points and should not be a country-specific approach to such pacts and give green light because of that or that interest. There have been many words from international politicians. Those who mean something in international policy and those who mean less. Jacques Dellores estimated that it would be more reasonable for Slovenia to be quiet at these moments. Korakas, a European Parliamentary, has even voted against Slovenia's entry into the EU precisely because it has taken a decisive stand on the side of the United States and not America. Mr. Minister, the Prime Minister! I call on you to show at least this time enough principle and pride to withdraw from this so-called Vilnius statement and with this world and, more importantly, to tell the public that we are for peaceful policy and that we are not for military intervention in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much for this initiative, if I understand correctly, and of course also the opinion. I myself, as Prime Minister, have repeatedly commented on both the Vilnius Declaration and the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So I don't see the need to repeat this for a long time. However, it is worth repeating that the Vilnius Declaration was a statement by the foreign ministers, that the Slovenian Government adopted its statement on the Vilnius Declaration, which is a comprehensive statement covering the issue of the relationship to the Iraqi crisis, and that the Slovenian Government has also acceded to the European Union declaration adopted on 17 February, in which the European Union takes a comprehensive view of the Iraqi crisis and also of the war. Some of this has been said today, I believe, also here by Mr Pat Cox, with whom I myself have had quite a long conversation and I must say that we have agreed on practically all things, in particular as regards the common security and foreign policy of the European Union in the future. The Slovenian government will continue to take the position it has adopted so far. It is, however, that it is and will always advocate for peaceful solutions to crises in the world, to advocate that the United Nations Organization and the Security Council play the role it plays and that key and most important decisions are taken within the Security Council. With regard to Iraq's war and the attack, the Slovenian government has also made it clear and publicly that it regrets the attack on Iraq and that it will do everything and is now also preparing to join all those humanitarian actions that we believe must be pursued in the future. Let me say that at the last meeting of the European Council in Brussels, in particular, there has been a debate on the organisation of the European Union, both the members of the European Union and the candidates, and that it will do its utmost to ensure that humanitarian aid runs away and runs away with all that is necessary later for the reconstruction of Iraq and for assistance to the civilian population. Our views are clear and remain unchanged, and they go in this direction that I have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u30	Complementary question. My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u31	On the contrary, the opinion of the Slovenian Government is not clear that the opinion of the Slovenian Government is twofold. The point is, when you're talking to Americans, you're responding to them. When you talk to the local public, the opinion is different. And that's not right. At the final stage, the whole world condemns us for being part of the so-called war coalition. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not once been prepared to denounce the statements made by the American congressmen, the leaders of the external committees and the public speakers of the US administration. This is a mistake we read to the Slovenian government. And this mistake was earlier revealed to the Slovenian government by the President of the European Parliament. Otherwise, with a diplomatic language, but he told us we can't play a double game. Of course, Slovenia is classified as one of the countries actively supporting the war, because of, in our opinion, personal and probably not other reasons. Minister Rupel, when he signed the declaration and when the government has given the thirst to this declaration, it is necessary to say that the revocation of the Vilnius Declaration has never been in this country. Because of the fact that Slovenia, now that people have decided to join the European Union, this country on the outside has shown something that stands strong, that stands on its own principles and that advocates peaceful policy, it would make sense to do so. Instead of defending a peaceful policy within the Security Council in the institutions of the European Union and a policy that is firm and dignified, no, the Slovenian government is playing a double game. The damage done to our country in this way in the international field is exceptional. Therefore, once again, I appeal to you or ask you to withdraw from this statement from Slovenia, the Slovenian Government which signed this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u32	Would you like to add to your response? Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u33	Obviously, another answer is needed to add an additional explanation. First of all, let me make it very clear that there is no way that anyone is holding a grudge to condemn Slovenia in any case. I have been to a number of such meetings around the world, and I must say that no one, ever, in any such context, mentioned or mentioned Slovenia. Reverse. In the past days, explicit lists of those who participate in the coalition in the attack on Iraq and of those who support the coalition have been published. Slovenia has not been on any of these lists and will not. I have already said this publicly and publicly once again that Slovenia will participate in a coalition of those who will aid the civilian population of Iraq humanitarianally in addressing the damage that will be caused there.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you. Next. Please. Do you have a proposal for a colleague of mine? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u35	Will Slovenia withdraw from the Vilnius Declaration?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u36	You have no further questions. Please, colleague Peca, the Prime Minister is not obliged to answer this question, because you have had the opportunity and you have given him a complementary question. The Prime Minister responded. The next question will be raised by colleague Janez Janša to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u37	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the government. Yesterday, Slovenia took a big and important step towards the future, and I am taking this opportunity first to congratulate all those in this national assembly and in the government, which in any way contributed to the successful outcome of both referendums. But now this second most important decision in the history of Slovenia is behind us. And the time has come for us to also regulate the country internally in accordance with the Constitution and democratic standards, so that the competition of various development programmes before the elections will have the same starting points to present to the electorate, so that in the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises, which are not government-owned but taxpayers, will also participate from the authorities as independent members and, with their presence, prevent the reckless spending of the taxpayer and corruption, or cases such as that of the Bank and Elan. Priority is given to the President of the National Assembly and we call on him to ensure that, until the next April meeting of the Assembly, Slovenian voters, who can monitor the direct transfer of the Croatian Parliament through our networks today, can also receive this opportunity at home and can finally monitor and monitor those who decide what numbers they pay on the checkers. Until you give this opportunity to the Slovenian voters, the Slovenian Coalition will participate selectively in the work of the National Assembly or where its voice will be heard at least because it decides nothing. I have no concrete question for the Prime Minister. The first reason is that we have received a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government saying that the government will not answer the questions that have been left behind because it is the new government. The mandate of the previous Member State has expired and all the questions raised by the Member States have thus come to light. I think there's over 100 of them left unanswered. I think it is too arrogant to tolerate it peacefully, and I suggest that this position, if ever adopted by the government, should be changed. The government is not new, only one or two members are new, the coalition is the same, the problems we asked are the same. I ask you to reconsider this arrogant response. The second reason why I will not ask the question is because of these requirements that we have already put before the coalition. In the coming days, we expect serious discussions about these six requirements to begin with the government. We expect the President of the National Assembly to finally allow the Slovenian voters to directly monitor the work of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u38	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u39	Maybe I'd like to comment on those words. I have to say that I have received written material and it foretells your question. It reads: What will be the government's tax policy measures by the end of 2003? It's dated 20.3. There is no problem, I am prepared to answer all the questions raised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and I do not see, I would say, in this part of our relationship there is no reason for you not to answer these questions and to run completely normal. As for the other questions you have asked, you will obviously have a discussion within the National Assembly and we will respect what you decide to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u40	If I may add Please, you have a supplementary question. [[...]] Please, Comrade Janš, you have a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u41	Perhaps it would be good for you to answer too, since the question has been asked by you. But I repeat with regard to the questions sent: we have received a letter from the Secretary-General of the Government saying that the government does not have to answer the so-called backward questions because it is the new government. I do not see a new government here, and the problems the government has been asked about are still the same. Please reconsider. With regard to the call for talks on the requirements that we have put forward, we do not, of course, expect such an answer that the government will respect what someone else will agree on, because the requirements that have been put in place are largely such that most of these must be met by the government or the government is the party that needs to be negotiated here. So please, in the coming days, we will not listen again to evasiveness, but to sit at the common table and discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u42	He would like to explain further to the Prime Minister or the Secretary-General, and then I will reply briefly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Since my letter was quoted, I must say that the comment of this letter, which was given along with it, is not corrected. For I have only warned the National Assembly or the competent service that it is probably non-systematic and contrary to the rules of procedure and constitutional regulation in this country, that as unanswered questions still appear on the list of questions to those members of the government who are simply no longer members of the government, as well as to the former Prime Minister. For parliamentary questions, however, are an instrument for the exercise of the responsibility of the state assembly over the work of the government and its members, and it is therefore impossible to ask, say, the new Prime Minister to answer the question to the former President, or the new Minister, to answer an unanswerable question from the former Minister. However, I do not think there is any problem that both ministers and the government will fully answer all the questions raised again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u44	Allow me to explain for a moment the question of colleague Janez Janša. I would like to assure you, colleague Janez Janša and others, that, as far as I can, we are doing our best to ensure all the technical and other possibilities necessary to achieve such a broadcast. That's why I've already had a conversation with the authorities, the head of mags. Jermolom, and you will be further informed in writing. I think you've already received one letter about this. So don't worry, I'm not an obstacle, and people who care about technical support in the National Assembly are doing their best. My colleague will ask the Prime Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday at the referendum, we made a historic decision with almost a plebiscite decision to join the European Union. This was, of course, the result of all efforts by both government members and colleagues present here. As the President of the European Parliament has said, we have received or taken the lead among those countries that had a referendum to join the European Union according to the percentage "for". Of course, now this must not be the ultimate goal for us, to enter the European Union, but only a tool to achieve the greatest possible economic growth and thus to increase the welfare of citizens and citizens. Therefore, of course, I ask you: What is your vision and what will be the next measures of the government to ensure that Slovenia achieves as much economic growth as possible and therefore also the well-being of the people of Slovenia? As citizens and citizens rightly expect wages to increase with higher economic growth, the result is pensions as well, inflation will decrease and unemployment will halve at least. On the other hand, the active working population, which must bear all the problems and the full weight of the reforms that we are already adopting and will accept when we are integrated into European integration, rightly expects their material situation to improve. On the other hand, demographic negative indicators also show this. Therefore, the question is also raised: How do we link the benefits of the European Union by turning to negative demographic indicators? On the other hand, it is also necessary to look after the various traps that occur during full membership. For example, we have been very successful in the agricultural field, but almost 60 per cent of farms in Slovenia cannot survive alone, so they need subsidies. The country must not be caught here in such or other agricultural policies as the captive would be, as agriculture brings to GDP, a gross domestic product, as much as, say, the New Town Revoz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u47	Dear Member, you have, of course, raised a very important question for which the question is whether it is sufficient 10 minutes; what Slovenia must do before full entry into the European Union, how it must adapt, what it must do to be competitive when it enters the European Union, so that we can, of course, continue successfully with economic development, so that we can reduce the rate of unemployment, so that we can all succeed together, and, of course, that the standard of living of Slovenian citizens and citizens will be higher in the end, and that all of these things will be higher. Of course, it's a very complex question. Undoubtedly, one part of the tasks relating to the entry into the European Union are related to issues relating to the standardisation of the normative part of the Slovenian legislation system. I am talking, of course, about a number of laws that will need to be adapted by the time of accession to the European Union, prepared and adopted in the national assembly. Only in the area of the financial system are 15 laws, for example, in the field of economy for 7 and so on; for the whole set of laws we have in the programme and the government will prepare them within the appropriate time frame to be adopted in the national assembly. An even more important area is that of adapting the economic system, adapting the economy, both in the macroeconomic field and in the microeconomic field. By entering the European Union, we are moving on to new conditions of management, conditions of management for which a lower inflation rate is essential and, of course, entry into the so-called IRM 2; to new conditions for determining the exchange rate, which is practically fixed; therefore, in these circumstances, it is clear, of course, that inflation must be reduced under conditions of pre-determined entry into the European Union. From this title, of course, anti-inflation policy is one of those key policies which, together with Banka Slovenije's exchange rate and monetary policy, must ensure a comparable level of Slovenian inflation in the coming months and, of course, an appropriate adjustment of the economic system and individual enterprises. In this context, the Slovenian government has significantly affected the tax area in the past weeks, reduced excise duties by falling from petrol levels to 64 per cent of the EU average to 56 per cent and diesel from 64 per cent to 60 per cent. In this way, we have prevented the adverse international political situation and the economic situation from having a negative impact on the inflation rate. Of course, from this title we note the losses of public finances. The annual figure is about 18 billion. Of course, from this title is our obligation, it is our task to make adequate savings and savings in the budget and this project is already under way within the Ministry of Finance. The next area, which is extremely important and concerns inflation, is, of course, indexation in both interest, wages and social transfers. I hope that in this regard, in particular with the social partners, we will be able to agree on appropriate arrangements both within the framework of the agreements on the social agreement, which are quite close to completion, as well as the public sector wage policy arrangements for this year and next year. The next area, which is extremely important and requires the attention of the government, is, of course, the structural problems facing the Slovenian economy. This is a restructuring of the financial sector, which is linked to the privatisation of banks and the restructuring of insurance. As you know, we have succeeded in the insurance companies and this opens the door to us as soon as the government issues decisions on the identification of so-called social capital in order to approach the restructuring of insurance, this is expected to happen already this week. From this title is another important task which could be widely and widely interpreted and discussed in terms of the so-called'second financial pillar' and all that concerns concentration in the field of banking and concentration in the field of insurance. Of course, we have tasks that are very important in the area of liberalisation and the demonopolisation of the non-changing sector, and one of the tasks that the European Union has also undertaken in these days is the flexibility of the labour market. Then it is a whole set of tasks - I see that I am running out of time - concerning Slovenia's accession and integration into the decision-making process under the European Convention: the creation of a future European Constitution, the corresponding role of Slovenia in this, the implementation of our objectives and wishes - of course also the other application of Slovenia. Administrative adaptation is also one of those areas that is extremely important. In short, the task is great, it's extensive, it's complex. We are aware that what was adopted yesterday is a great responsibility ahead of us, and we are prepared to carry it out and perform as much as possible in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Complementary question? Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister, and I would like to ask you a further question. Also certain protection mechanisms in the laws are those that, I will say, will also help to make our economic growth, and, of course, the welfare of citizens, as much as possible. However, some of the laws we have already adopted or are on their way to parliament do not speak in this direction. Like, say, we've already talked about the income law that we've already processed - and I wouldn't be repeating myself now. On the other hand, I would also like to know how the government or government services are prepared to take advantage of all the institutions and other institutions of the European Community. For example, now in pre-accession matters, this was PHARE: Have we made sufficient use of these funds? Personally, I know that there are many of them somewhere, but there is hardly anything in some areas. I would like to know what will happen now that we are members: Are we qualified to know from the Structural Funds that we will obtain funds and also in this way - not only through legislation - also with our ability to obtain additional resources in these areas to strengthen our economy and thus to strengthen citizens' well-being?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u50	Please. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much for the additional question. You have raised another issue, which is undoubtedly an important exception, which concerns structural policy and the use of structural funds. I absolutely agree with you. The efficiency of the use of structural funds is in fact one of our core obligations, Slovenia's net financial position at the time of entry into the European Union is approximately 0.3% of gross domestic product, so that the net financial position by entering the European Union is not improving, but nothing is getting worse. This means that if we are to get what we are going to have to invest in the European Union from the European Union, we must draw the funds back to the fullest extent possible, as foreseen by the financial package. Aware of this, preparations are under way within the government. As you know, within the government we also have a new Minister for Regional Development, the task of the Minister is quite clear: to prepare appropriate programmes, appropriate projects that will allow us to draw on these funds to the full. Intensive preparations are under way within the Ministry of Agriculture. Public discussions are also under way, as well as within the framework of the Agency for the Market in Agricultural Products, and the Government has also adopted appropriate conclusions concerning the coordination of European affairs, through which we have very clearly defined the tasks - both of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of the European Affairs, as regards the way in which the European Union operates and manages policy, in particular in the area of the Structural Funds. This way, I believe that in the framework of the administrative preparations I have been talking about, we will also maximize the capacity of Slovenian services, Slovenian experts, agencies and ministries, so that we will also delete these funds completely. In fact, there will also be no alternatives for ministries. The 2004 budget, supplemented by the need to prepare it, will be the European budget and the ministries will have no resources unless they benefit from European funds because there will be no other substitute. Nor will this be an additional resource, but it will actually be the source of the ministries. So I believe that we will be ready to make full use of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded that part of the point of the parliamentary question and the initiatives relating to dialogue with the Prime Minister. I thank him for his participation in this work. Now, ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members and Members. I have already been warned by some colleagues that there is a desire for replacements within the applicants. Look, it's not hard for me to do this. The order is also designed to facilitate the organisation of the work. If the parliamentary groups insist on doing so, I will take this into account, but it should come to a firm agreement between us, because both ministers and ministers are prepared for order, as they receive it by letter. A colleague, Maria Poszonec, will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Agriculture two questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I ask the Minister of Transport to explain whether the course of the 5th corridor from Barcelona to Kiev is still foreseen through our country. In fact, after a closed meeting, the Hungarian Minister of Transport said that Hungary would not build a highway to Slovenia, but to Croatia, which is not even strange, given that the construction of the motorway in Prekmurje is taking so long. I heard it myself on TV. Although this statement has not particularly affected any of the responsible ones, as a result we will feel it not only in Prekmurje but will affect the whole Slovenian country. That is why I ask you, Minister, to tell the Slovenian public what the fate of the Prekmurje motorway is. I draw the attention of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food to the consequences of the Regulation on the organisation of the market in cereals on the basis of which the farmer is entitled to direct payment, provided that he produces a single crop on a pruning surface of a field of at least 0,2 hectares, except for oil pumpkins. In the Lendava administrative unit, the number of all parcels is 108 316. Of these all parcels of agricultural land 99,552, all plots, less than 0.2 hectares, are 72,186, which is 72.5%. So there are only so many subsidies. In the administrative unit Murska Sobota is the number of all parcels 253 170, of which 240 962 plots of agricultural land are all plots less than 0.2 hectares and 148 692, which is 61%. The numbers are summarised according to the cadastral data. I do not think that it is right for our farmers, who own 5, 10 or more hectares of agricultural land, but who are broken down into a number of pieces, which are less than 0,2 hectares, and who are no longer entitled to direct payments to the surface after this regulation. And even less so for those farmers who have a lower field than 20 acres - 10, 15 acres of corn is already a beautiful field for our situation. And in this product price imbalance, these farms are the ones most in need of the subsidies that you took from them in the new regulation this year. So I propose that the regulation remain as it was last year. So: for a field of 0.1 hectares, etc. - eligible for the subsidy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you so much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, on the question of what is the 5th Corridor, I can make it clear that the fifth corridor remains a priority in the construction of transport infrastructure through the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, the 5th corridor on the entire route from Barcelona to Kiev also has side branches or other branches, not only the basic corridor, and one of these branches also goes through the Republic of Croatia. Hungary will build a highway, i.e. a road, both against the Republic of Croatia and for now the first phase, as a halfway road, towards the Republic of Slovenia or towards the border crossing of the Pinke. In Slovenia, we have intensified all the procedures that are necessary until the very beginning of the construction, in order to try this deadline, when Hungary builds this section to Pink, we will also build a section from Lendava to Pink as a priority in Slovenia and thus enable this border crossing in the Pinks themselves. Otherwise, Slovenia makes the most of the funds at this time for the construction of the 5th Corridor, in fact, at the present maximum of the two most difficult sections in the Republic of Slovenia, these are the Trojanes and the Black Kal, but of course Prekmurje is not exempt from this in the current construction or in the resolution, which we are also preparing in the Ministry and in cooperation with other government departments, and which is expected to be forwarded in June to the National Assembly. Therefore, this resolution will also provide for precise deadlines and prices for the construction of individual motorway sections in Prekmurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u56	Minister of Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you so much for asking. It requires a few explanations. The European legal order in the area of common market arrangements is bound by regulations, i.e. that part of the legal order which Slovenia no longer has after the entry into the European Union, but which establishes a common one. It clearly states that the field area eligible for the subsidy must not be smaller - or that the smallest possible field area for which countries can choose 0,30 acres. In other words, everyone in the European Union has the right, on the basis of a European regulation, to apply subsidies to all areas in one circular piece planted with crops greater than 0.3 hectares. So in Slovenia we can dream that we would have 1 ha or 2 ha, this is completely meaningless because it is possible to do so if 25 countries decide to change the regulation. That's definitely not gonna happen, at least not for a long time. So, the limit of 0.3 hectares can't be raised up like the lower limit. It's regulation. We have decided that we are already aligned with it. But there's a recommendation. This is one of three, this is the lowest legal part, the lowest mandatory legal reading, if I say so, where it says that at the same time it is recommended that countries also apply the possibility that the plot is at least 0,1 ha, says 10 acres planted with agriculture, and is already entitled to a subsidy for agriculture. This has been the case with us until this year, I myself have proposed the same this year. This year, on the basis of well-known negotiations within the government, in particular with the Ministry of Finance, which required a significantly lower limit, even more than 30 ar, which is provided to everyone in the European Union, was a compromise of 20 ar. That's what they say. We went from last year's 10 acres to 20 acres. So, all those who have one rounded area with a field of agriculture of less than 20 acres, even if they have ten pieces - over-split properties in Prekmurje, this is undeniably true, around Lendava in particular - will not be entitled to a subsidy for any of these ten plots, even if each 19 acres is large, even if this is common for example up to 2 hectares. This is the new regulation, this is a compromise. Personally, I thought we should stand on 10 acres where it was said that we had saved 300 million. I know that there will be problems here in Prekmurje, because the commotion works of land - not done in this part around Lendava. I don't know how we're gonna handle this. It is true that in Slovenia we have actually seized the right to subsidies for about 14,000 hectares, about half of which is in Prekmurje. The problem is undeniable. Once again, the European acquis gives everyone more than 30 ar, regardless of whether farmers, semi-farmers, amateur farmers, the conditions for processing the land with a culture eligible for subsidy and the recommendation that everyone with more than 10 ar is justified. But it's not a commitment. It's over 30 acres. In Slovenia, we decided 20 ar as a compromise for known reasons, known to the public. I do not hide that until there are land deposits, this will present a problem in certain parts of Slovenia, especially in the part of Prekmurje, in the part of Koroška and in the White landscape, for example. Or it would represent in Ribnik where I live, where no one actually sows crops that would be eligible for subsidies anymore, but I point out that the grass, of course, does not have this lower limit. However, one hectare is in force, as has been the case so far, whether this hectare is in one, ten or less or a larger number of pieces.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u58	You wanted to ask a supplementary question. Please, colleague of the Posons.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, this means that 72 per cent of the subsidies in the Lendava administrative unit are dropped and 61 per cent of the subsidies are dropped in Murska Sobota. Then tell me how these farmers will survive. In fact, you need to know that this little country has allowed us not to go on the road. Without it, we'd be begging, even if half-farms who get 50, 60 thousand dollars of wages are somehow patching up the family budget. And to the Minister of Transport. The Hungarian minister made it clear loud and clear that they would not build a highway from Flight to Pinc, but only a two-passenger. So for them, it's not the highway, it's not the 5th corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u60	Minister Booth wants to briefly complete his answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u61	See, in Slovenia we will be tendering 23 billion different subsidies this year, of which two thirds will be paid this year, one third next year - for 2003. We have introduced 8 new subsidies that we have not had so far, all at 75 per cent, because this year is the so-called reference year on which the permitted heights are estimated for the following years. And within this came this compromise, which I personally believe may not be the best, but it is a fact, and this means that anyone who has less than 20 acres per piece of sown crops entitled to subsidies cannot enforce this subsidy. Once again, I stress that this is the result of well-known debates and that this will cause problems, but I have also warned the government, but the agreement reached was that way. This means, of course, that it is necessary to make a rounding of the property, because, if we are very honest, the hand on the heart, and the 20 Aryan fields really can't bring us anywhere on the long run, and that it will have to be rounded up and have instead of 10 plots for example 3 or 4, if not just one, and that is true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u62	The next question will be raised by a colleague of Cukjat, Dr. Bajuk, to the Minister of Health. Please, mate Tucky, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The question I have referred in writing to the Minister of Health is how he will ensure a smooth on-call service and the same amount of outpatient work if most doctors are not willing to work more than they require by law. Because of the obvious boycott of doctors experienced by the Minister at regional meetings, the question should be: How will you reorganise health care if you have over two years played out all the confidence of doctors? How - even if reform were possibly well placed. Given that the media reports on your activities have recently been uncritical and shaped according to a well-known regime model, by which the facts are intertwined with a regime-like comment, so that only unilaterally chewed reports are available to readers, the question should be: How have you managed to reach such service comments in the media? You have to intervene yourself or have the editorial policies of the largest Slovenian media still have built-in self-control, which ensures that the policy option provides a popular form of public opinion, which Slovenian intellectuals point out in their first request. Without government control, there is no democracy; there is no public control. However, the public can objectively judge government action only when it is objectively informed. The key to the democratisation of the country is the democratisation of the media. This, however, was prevented by the government through its clients when it rejected the proposal to set up a media pluralisation fund. In view of the fact that, without media hygiene, without a healthy media space, free political corruption and dependence, any constructive criticism is condemned in advance to failure, I am withdrawing my question. That's why you don't have to answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u64	There's no need for the minister unless he wants to. Please, Minister of Health, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u65	I'm sure I'd like to answer that. Although it is a large part of the question, in fact, typically opposition, to address someone other than the mere modest Ministry of Health. Oh, yeah! Doctors in this country cooperate and carry out on-call services as they have done so far. And to mention that the law did not provide for written consent, consent is valid in any case as soon as the doctor does. And the doctors showed this agreement in this way. Secondly, even if doctors refused to work continuously for 32 hours, after all, the law allowed them to work continuously for only 16 hours, we explained many times, nothing would have fallen, and the number of outpatients would not have decreased, the amount of work would not have been reduced in the morning, but on-calls should have been divided twice after 8 hours, with which the vast majority of doctors would not want to face it, nor should they have to. Third time. As Minister of Health, I visit Slovenia to highlight the criticisms and arguments underlying these criticisms. Those present do not express these faults. Those who may wish to express these criticisms are not present at meetings. I think I will understand - and not publicly, but as a non-truster of doctors when the arguments prove to me that there will be no adequate answers to which the Minister of Health and personally do something that is contrary to the interests of Slovenian health. That's my answer to when I think I'm going to experience the untrustworthy woman I might have earned. Whoever doesn't want to face me when I come to him to tell me the reasons why he doesn't trust me, I think he's simply afraid to confront my opinion. Third time. The media response, of course, is not and should be addressed to the media. Allow me one thing, I will say, is really just a question, or just a self-questioning minister, or maybe a media in the case of health, and I can calmly say that they are also ruthless with the Ministry of Health - when they have something obvious to him. But it is not possible to wonder whether you may have listened to the public and public opinion and to citizens who may not share or at least do not share the opinion of doctors at any time. While doctors, as has been done so far, will generally discuss their dissatisfaction with their incomes and thus dissatisfaction with the minister's mistrust, so long, of course, it is not likely that this minister will be afraid to argue his own actions. But, of course, reform is very difficult. If you allow me; when I move reform across the country in this form, as this time has already been presented - and I hope that I will have a short opportunity to present it in the parliamentary debate - and in this I am experiencing, I will say, the prevailing confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by a colleague of Dr. Bayuk to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. As I've already said, Dr. Marble's minister apologized. My colleague, Dr. Bajuk, still wants to ask a question, and the Minister, in 30 days, is obliged to provide him with a written answer if he wants to, but the Member can insist on performing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The ancient Romans said, "Clara pacta, boni amica." We translated it into Slovenian as "clean accounts, good friendship". The deposit of accounts and the transparency of public finances is at the heart of the operation of a modern democratic state, but in Slovenia, of course, this is not yet the case. Last November, I asked Mr Prime Minister why he did not take 10 years to fulfil the responsibility of all the governments in which he chaired to fulfil the second paragraph of 146 of our Constitution, namely that the state must demonstrate its assets, which is known in the profession as a balance sheet. There was no answer to the question, and although Mr President has promised a written write-off answer, we have not received that either. However, we received and received an answer, from all the components of the ruling coalition, at the last meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. The great coalition has decided not to vote in favour of the proposal to require our government to do just that: and this is to comply with our constitution. It is obvious that the Slovenian government and the great coalition have decided to continue their business, as we have been accustomed to so far, somewhat after home, to respect the Constitution and our legal order occasionally, if this is not, of course, on the way or for their political purposes or for the financial and economic requirements of the groups they support. Of course, one has to wonder why a great coalition can afford it. Because we still have a significant imbalance in the media space and our media does not inform people about these key issues of our future together. And it is because we are getting such answers that I have decided that we will withdraw this question and I will not put it out of protest because we still have those patterns of thinking and that way of doing things that were formed during our totalitarian past. The imbalance in the media makes it impossible for our democracy and such decisions as have now been taken by the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, clearly shows that the ruling coalition still wants to move forward with this, as I have already mentioned, occasional respect for the Constitution and our legal order. I'm withdrawing my question. There's no need for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u68	Colleague Silva Montenegro wants to ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Today's question will be raised by Prof. Kebru: How does he intend to resolve the situation with regard to the implementation of the amendment of the Law on Health Activities, adopted on 23.5.2001, which has allowed for the application for public powers both to professional associations and to the Chambers, in the fact that no mandate has been given so far, as there is also a constitutional dispute in the Constitutional Court? How does the Ministry intend to prevent current confusion and violations in this area? In order to be more visible, I will present one concrete example, namely, a case in the field of physiotherapy. Let me specifically mention and tell everyone that in Slovenia we have a Association of Physiotherapy Professionals of Slovenia, which today counts about 990, almost 1000 members, and is also included in the Department of Physiotherapy of the University of Ljubljana University of Health. This society is also a full member of the World Organisation of Physico-therapeuticians and a full member of the European Physico-therapeutic Organisation. On the other hand, there is also a Chamber of Physiotherapeuticians of Slovenia, which has slightly less than 100 members, but has a dominant opinion or even the only opinion in decisions concerning Physotherapy at different levels. And there are major abuses here, which are probably familiar to you. So, for example, a member, an examiner of a physical therapist’s study, makes it necessary to obtain a professional examination with a membership in a chamber, which is, of course, paid, which is unacceptable. It is also also, of course, unacceptable that the Chamber of Physiotherapists of Slovenia issue a negative opinion on the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship for some highly respected members. For example, we have a concrete example of a German citizen who has demanded Slovenian citizenship and has also completed our higher education institution and has a positive opinion of society, but the Chamber has given a negative opinion, despite having no authority to do so. I can also conclude that this same chamber, which has only the title of the Chamber, is not included in the Register of Associations, but also gives opinions on the appropriateness of the premises for the exercise of physical therapy. This is, of course, a big problem and I'm actually curious: How do you plan to solve it? Because at the time of our consideration of the witnessing novel, the question, or dilemma, was also somehow in the air, whether it is appropriate to have one general code of assembly activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u71	Madam Member, if I answer the last one first. I personally - and I'm probably not the only one - very much want the law on chambers, but I think there are many in this country, in this room, who understand the reasons why we will find it difficult to reach this law. However, the case that you described with regard to physiotherapists is one of the typical cases why we decided to change this law: that we had companies that worked literally after 100 years and had all the members of our profession involved, and nevertheless the legislation so far required a chamber, a new recruitment of members and a new mandate only to the chamber, which resulted in some perfectly clear antagonisms or conflicts within the same profession. In order to overcome this, we have equalized the possibilities for both societies and chambers to be given State powers under the same conditions as the law. Public authority. Among other things, of course, 50 percent of all profession membership and so on. It is true, however, that it was the physiotherapists' chamber and laboratory medicine that brought the proceedings before the Constitutional Court and that the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of this Article until its final decision. Unfortunately, I can say - or not unfortunately - that is because the Constitutional Court has not yet made a final decision and we are obliged to wait for the final decision of the Constitutional Court, but let me just say that, in the meantime, even if it has given itself the name of the Chamber, it is not possible to carry out something and it is not necessary to ask for an opinion if it does not have public powers. So that, on individual specific occasions, the existing practice - I would like to be, or have already been, partially informed, because I think we have some opportunity to act or at least calm down those objections that now arise because society and the Chamber, of course, both without powers, are coming to different opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. That's right. In fact, this is the situation, but I think there are new injustices in practice and it would suggest that they are operationally resolved. At the same time, I would like to use this opportunity to thank you for your written answer to my outstanding oral question from the previous meeting, to upgrade it in writing, to refer, of course, to European guidelines and to the solution of this problem, but at the same time, I will add a solution to the possible problems of preventive health care for men, because some colleagues have told me why we only care for women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič will raise a question to the Minister for Health and Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am referring to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and it is related to my already raised question 24.2. at the 23rd regular meeting of the National Assembly. Let me quote a part of the answer that Mr Minister Kopač asked me to that question. I quote: "Only countries with healthy drinking water will be able to say to themselves that they are countries of prosperity. The system of protection and care for drinking water in Slovenia works well." With the finding of Minister Kopač, I agree in principle. However, I do not agree with his view that everything works well. I share the opinions of experts on drinking water conservation, who, through their studies, which are also internationally recognised, have come to the conclusion that water in Slovenia is contaminated to this extent, that the current state already endangers the health status of users. I ask you: How can it be that the competent ministers, who are entrusted with the care of the health of citizens, do not inform the public of the exact information about the quantity of illicit health of harmful substances in drinking water? It seems unacceptable to me that the criteria for integrity are laid down by manufacturers in their declarations on the content and limits of the health of harmful substances. I also estimate that it is pointless for water to be determined by the agronomists, not by the biological and health professions. I agree with the findings of biologists and researchers, and I urge you to change the criteria that will reflect and provide safe water in the first place. Finally, I would add and note that drinking water in the Republic of Slovenia provides public goods to which every citizen is entitled, which is also provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, I would like to point out that it is the country which must provide citizens with a source of healthy drinking water and food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. First, I give the word to Dr. Dusan Kebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Let me start by saying that healthy water, like clean air, is a goal that can't be achieved at once, but we're setting it as a goal. After all, much has been said in the international environment and much has also been said about avoiding the air problem. If I return to water, something has to be said that we try to control and that the state of both biological and chemically contaminated water is improving from year to year. We will present tomorrow at a special press conference, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment, that this country can show trends that at the level of the trend show a significant improvement in water pollution by biological agents as well as by chemical agents, and that we have good results if you want, even in groundwater and not only in water, as we say, which pollution we measure in taps. However, it must be said that in the field of safe water, there are European Union standards that are more drastic than the health standards of the World Health Organisation; in some cases, the World Health Organisation foresees 20 to 50 times more favourable standards. If I mention the most creaked atrazine - or the most famous recently - the world health organisation has 20 times the criterion to say that water is still healthy and potable, while the guidelines that we call a precautionary measure and we have confirmed them also in our regulation are much stricter and even though the stricter guidelines are right at the atrazine, we usually exceed this limit by some 10%. A well-known case in recent weeks, water Ljubljana, in a particular area of Ljubljana on average exceeds the amount of atrazin by 50%. I'm running out of time today, but tomorrow we'll explain exactly what that means. Let me also mention that it is not known practical for any of the substances that are otherwise every day - and it is right that every day they are among us, because it is right to disappear from our food, but for none, nor for PCBs, so polychlorinated bitens - an affair from 15 years ago - this time the world does not yet know its true chronic danger. Similarly, we do not know the true chronic dangers of many substances, and this moment, according to experts' assessment on the account of chemical half-ants - not just water, to mention all the food - dies less than one person - forgive me to say this cruel result - to a million people because of unhealthy food; which means too much, too caloric and all that we see as the result of something that we call "junk food". And here 3,000 people die per million a year. And sometimes the whole world is running out of time today to explain why the whole world is dealing with safe food, but it's not dealing with unhealthy food. Finally, only those pesticides allowed by the European Union are allowed in Slovenia, but, of course, they are significantly smaller. We have as many as 400 of them on the market, and atrazin is even more banned than in many countries of the European Union because use is prohibited. But it's a substance that's slowly floating away, and it's going to take another ten years for it to fall somewhere below the limits that we're prescribing. The question of what to do at this time is - we cannot react in this way as with chloramphenicol and in milk, we are taking atrazine in quantity, such as today, as a sign that measures are needed. Last year, the government re-imposed a regulation from three ministries to prepare appropriate measures and the ministries will continue to take action. Let me say, if I say very briefly, because the numbers will be available tomorrow. I can say that today, in the last five years, half the fewer citizens are at risk of so-called polluted water than, say, 1998 and that this is counted at 100,000 citizens. This means that this country has also done a great deal in the field of water security. Safe water is getting better in the trend. There are many reasons why it is not good, especially for small sources, but for those sources that depend on individuals who do not adapt and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Arehova, you probably want to complete the answer and also listen to the minister you asked in the question, mag. Franca Booth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I might add a few thoughts myself. One: for the first time, in Slovenia only those phytosanitary agents that are registered can only be used, i.e. not a single asset that is not registered, cannot be used, of course it must be properly labelled and similar. Secondly, only those plant protection products which are on the list of European authorised products and none which are not on the list of European authorised products may be registered, nor is it in Slovenia. Of course, there is a problem elsewhere because, on the other hand, the European acquis, the European Union, where we enter, and at the same time does not allow you to simply delete something in a given country because, in this case, they say that we are violating one of the four freedoms, that is free movement of goods and that we must in fact respect common agreed standards for the whole country. But we can delete them, and we can ban them in certain areas, which we can define as particularly sensitive. These are water protection areas. A known case is atrazine. It is clear, however, that the concern for completely faultless drinking water is our constant and, in fact, Slovenia has certainly contributed from the so-called much greater direction towards superstandards. We will probably spend about half of the money of €250 million on rural development to the so-called superstandards, these are additional subsidies for healthier food, safe food, for over-standard food produced, more environmentally acceptable, environmentally friendly; in short, these are, in fact, those elements and regulations that I believe are also the right direction for most of Slovenia forward, the effects will be multilayered and will ultimately or initially benefit all citizens and citizens also in the area of clean, healthy water, but also food as a whole and the environment as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Mr Igor Štemberger, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. I am asking my question to the Minister of Finance. On the basis of Articles 55 and 137 of the Company Act, entrepreneurs are therefore required to submit for the first time annual reports for publication and for national statistics to the Agency for Public Records and Services. Businesses liable to an activity tax must also submit annual reports to Dursa, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, for tax purposes. In the light of the Anti-Birocratic Programme, in my view, it is pointless to duplicate such tasks, as the annual reports submitted to Durs could also be used for the needs of the APES and vice versa. Entrepreneurs are required to submit to the Public Records and Services Agency in their 2002 report by 31 March 2003. However, before submitting the report, they must pay the appropriate public publication compensation set by the rate of compensation for services provided by the Agency for Public Records and Services under Article 55 of the Company Act. The amount of the public publication refund shall vary according to the type of the annual report and according to the manner in which it is submitted, whether written or electronic, and shall range from 4,800 to 36,000 tonnes. The report shall be deemed to be submitted only when the costs of publication have been paid. As well as other Members of the Young Slovenia Party, we are joining the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce protest, which in last year protested the additional financial burden on small businesses and independent entrepreneurs, who are already subject to high tax burdens and the negative consequences of financial non-discipline in the country. The compulsory payment of compensation in advance only clearly confirms that the rule of law is primarily concerned with reliable own incomes and the normalisation of financial non-discipline, which rules in the economic sector, does not guarantee. Although they have been promised by the Ministry of Finance that they will propose to the Council of the Agency for Public Records and Services a lower rate of compensation for the costs of public publication of annual reports, from 8,600 to 3,000 and 4,600 to 1,000 tolars, which remains only for promises. I would therefore ask the Minister to answer me: Will and how much will the tariff be replaced? For in anticipation of this response to the Chamber of Commerce, they are currently advising their members to wait until 31 March 2003 for the payment of the compensation, which is, of course, rapidly approaching. In the light of the anti-biocratic programme, and in the light of electronic commerce, I am interested in: Why should entrepreneurs even have to submit the same report to both DURS and AJPES, or could these procedures be simplified and, in particular, cheaper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. As you are aware, Mr Minister is absent today and will therefore give you an answer in writing within 30 days, the reply will also be published in the Rapporteur, unless you state that you want an oral reply. In this case, he'll be sending you this one at the next session. Written answer, thank you very much. Mr Jožef Kavticnik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Minister for Home Affairs, will now raise the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to fake two problems. The Labour Relations Act provides that the working relationship between the worker and the employer is that in which the worker voluntarily engages in the employer’s work process and in which he carries out the work for payment. The employer must provide the worker with an adequate payment for the performance of the work. This payment shall, however, be provided for in the employment contract, which shall contain a provision on the amount of the basic salary of the worker to whom the work is due and on any other payment. The employer is also obliged to apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance and unemployment insurance. There are increasing numbers of companies that pay workers part of the payment for the work done or part of the salary in purchase vouchers with which they can purchase commercial goods in specific stores. I ask: Is this a legal form of payment or salary? Should such payment be defined already in the employment contract? If this is not a legal form of payment, have the competent inspectors acted and how many times? I assume that I will receive a written reply from the Minister of Finance as to whether companies have displayed or accounted for such a paid part of the payment or salary as a gross insurance basis for the calculation of the contributions. If they are not, or under the laws and powers of the tax administration has taken action and recovered hidden obligations pending the full payment of the contributions. Another question, or another problem. The Company Act provides that the company is a voluntary non-profit association of natural persons, which combines themselves for a common interest. Society must not be established or engage in profitable activities as its exclusive activities. Therefore, the law does not exclude the exercise of a gainful activity, but it must not be exclusive. In accordance with the law on the hospitality of society on a non-profit basis, they may also carry out the activities of preparing and serving food and beverages for their own needs in their premises. Many registered companies also enforce this legal provision, but in some cases the law is being enforced. The central problem is that companies do not just do these activities for their members, but also offer them to non-members and perform them almost exclusively as they are established only for this purpose. Of course, presumptive activities also conceal profits or surpluses over expenditure, rather than spend on achieving the objectives of society, they divide between members and founders through fictitious legal transactions. I ask the Minister of the Interior: How many societies that have not spent their income on expenditure in the manner described have they proposed an offence procedure? Does the Minister feel that the current regulation on societies does not allow this? I ask the Minister of Finance: In cases where an offence has been proven to the company, the tax administration shall, in accordance with the laws and powers of the measure, recover the hidden obligations of those entities to the State? At the Ministry of Finance, do they believe that it is necessary to adapt or harmonise the rules concerning the functioning of the tax administration as well as the rules on societies? I also expect a written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Labour, Dr. Vlad Dimovska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much for that question. There are several sets of questions, so allow me to make some answers after these sets. First is the question of pay. The Working Conditions Act lays down in Article 126 that the basic payment from the working relationship is paid in cash. The salary, however, consists of the so-called salary base, business performance and supplements. All that belongs to the category of salary shall be paid in cash. The law in Article 231 sanctions the non-payment of salaries in cash, and this may also be the reason for the worker's exceptional dismissal if his salary is not paid in cash. However, this must be said, so the answer to your question is that the payment of wages in purchase vouchers is not in accordance with the law and is sanctioned in this Article 231. Otherwise, it is possible to agree on the basis of a collective agreement between the employer and the worker to pay for the work in some other forms. But it's not like it's part of the salary, but we call it other forms of payment. This must be in accordance with the collective agreement and must be enshrined in the employment contract. This means that certain payments can also be made in a different way, in a different form than a monetary form. In such a case, payment in purchase vouchers is possible. Part three, when you asked about the Labour and Sanctions Inspectorate. We do not have accurate data on this issue at this time. We can get them, and we can get them, so to speak, in vain. Otherwise, the Labour Inspector is competent to take action if payments are made under a minimum wage, depending on the form, place and time of payment, also by law. In the cases mentioned above - contributions, however, this is an instance of enforcement in the social courts. In other cases, those pay-as-you-go questions are in the courts. That would be briefly about the issue you have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Also Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Member, colleagues and colleagues! Member Kavtičnik is right when he says that a law is being misused or played that allows companies to carry out hospitality activities, while only for their members in their premises, and many of which turn into a typical repetitive gainful activity. It is also right to say that the company law does not allow profit-making activities to be carried out as exclusive activities for societies. And also that many do not take into account the provisions of the Social Act as regards the directing of surpluses to the tax base and the payment of the tax on this. However, it must be said that the Ministry of the Interior is not a supervisory authority with regard to the functioning of societies. The Ministry of the Interior shall be the registration authority. Therefore, in answer to the question whether the Ministry has already applied for an offence, I must say that this is neither jurisdiction nor the duty of the Ministry of the Interior, but appropriate inspections. Market inspections, where it is a matter of determining whether the hospitality activity of the company is an activity or is merely the provision of a service or preparation of food for its members and in its premises, or tax inspections, where it is a matter of whether the surplus is taken into account on a tax basis or is paid from surpluses. With regard to the question of whether the current legislation is appropriate, I would say the following. The Company Act prohibits the pursuit of gainful activities as exclusive activities. It means that the law on societies, the law in force, prohibits it accordingly. It is true, however, that it does not sanction this either by an offence or by any procedure which would intervene in the exercise of this activity. Article 23 of the Societies Act expressly prohibits and also declares as an offence the exercise of a gainful activity without paying taxes on surpluses. The non-payment of taxes is, under the law on societies, under article 23, an explicit offence, which is, of course, not by the registration authority, which is the Ministry of the Interior, which is, of course, not by the tax inspectorate, I repeat. What do we suggest? The problem has been known for a long time. We're working for the two of us. Firstly, the new Social Act has already been prepared and has already been on the parliamentary benches in the first debates. In this law, we have provided for a special sanction in the event that society misuses the prohibition of the exclusive exercise of gainful activities. This sanction is a judicial prohibition on the exercise of an activity for such a society. This is not in the current legislation; a new law on societies will bring this. Secondly, we have already proposed to the Ministry of Economy, as the competent proposer of the law on catering activities, that article 3 of the law on catering be deleted. In our view, this article, which specifically allows a society to carry out a hospitality activity without technical and personal, personal, personal conditions, is indeed limited to its needs in order to provide such a legal basis for societies. Why? Because if society wants to host its members in its general assembly of juices and sandwiches, it is not necessary to have a basis in Article 3 of the Hostages Act, but it is a matter of occasional hospitality, which is not considered to be a catering activity. We are therefore endeavouring and proposing that the honourable Member support the abolition of Article 3 of the Hostages Act. It is only in this way that we believe that this widespread abuse will also be eliminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Do you want a follow-up, Mr. Kavtičnik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much to the Minister for his reply and, of course, to this proposal that he will make for a change of law. Dr. Smokey's next. We know that more and more payments are being paid in the form of vouchers. As a result, people will not be satisfied with such a response, but with measures. That is why we want and want to see something done in this direction and to tighten control of those companies that pay part of the earned income of workers in the form of vouchers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u91	I fully agree with the Member, as far as this is concerned. We have also said publicly that if there are any indications anywhere, the inspectorate can also be applied anonymously. For this reason, I also say that, wherever this exists, of course, such an application is welcome and the labour inspectorate may also operate or issue regulatory decisions within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers! Democracy in society is not only ensured by the definition of principles and rules in the constitution, in laws, but by the establishment of actual situations, actual circumstances that ensure democratic balance. This is like another thing we want to do, not enough to want to do, or write it to do, we need to actually want to do it. We observe and we are convinced that the ruling team, the suit doesn't want democracy in our society. He does not want all people to be informed, informed, and not least, so that they can also have an impact on their decisions through their representatives, say us Members. Access to information is therefore one of the fundamental conditions for the development and existence of democracy in our society. I am convinced that today citizens have mainly only adequately tailored and biased information. The growing problems in the economy, in health, in education, in the social sector, which the opposition has repeatedly warned about in the National Assembly, all too rarely and after cuts come to our viewers and listeners. A number of important government projects are jammed to the citizens and are happening in the back of the scenes in a stealthy and gradual manner. One of these is the concentration of administration, finance and intellectual power in some centres, the beginning of which is also designed in the government by the reorganisation and concentration of administrative units. Parliament is a place for decisions, not for the backstage. Parliament is where key changes are decided, where opinions are finally faced and these opinions must be made available to the public, but not in pieces, targeted and, of course, repeatedly with a certain political call. Meetings of the National Assembly have become an urgent evil of the ruling team. He also canceled public control. Parliament has become a voting machine for the ruling, let alone to accompany our constructive proposals here. Why shouldn't citizens have the right to know what's going on here? Why are the meetings of the National Assembly not directly tolerated? In this House, we have also made it possible with taxpayers' money to establish an appropriate information infrastructure that allows for the direct transfer of meetings of the national assembly. Now, according to the President of the National Assembly, we have only one cable, which is, that is, a missing cable, which is a technical obstacle to the transmission of direct meetings. This is not an obstacle, it is not the wish of this political machinery that meetings be carried forward directly, that our citizens also know about the opposition's proposals and that, finally, in one constructive dialogue, we can create a better situation for the future. I am withdrawing my question to the Minister for Home Affairs because I think that the action is already sufficiently indicated as it follows us in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. With all due respect, mags. Vizjak, but it's a pure abuse of the institute of sent questions. The question you have addressed in writing to Mr Rada Bohinc is entirely in the second part inconsistent with what you have written to him in the second part concerning the transmission of radio television by the Slovenian National Assembly. You have addressed the question in writing to us why the regionalisation of administrative units of the Republic of Slovenia is being carried out. And about this work, I think the minister has even prepared an answer and he could answer your question. There is no controversy about this, but I am warning you that this is an abuse of the institution of the question. Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister of Finance, who is absent today, but you can also ask and define how you would like to receive this question: either publicly at the next meeting or in writing. Would you like to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u95	I don't know if sir has any further questions. Justice?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u96	He took it away.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u97	Ah, he took it away. Honourable representatives of the government or ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I have been prepared or I have already asked the Minister of Finance a further question. If he's prepared for this question, I thank him. However, I do not intend to repeat this question today. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to make my point. Dear Members! We are representatives of citizens, and we must be responsible to our constituents for this work. It is important that these citizens who elected us to this assembly are also properly and sufficiently informed about the work of the National Assembly. For this reason, I believe that the meetings of the National Assembly and the working bodies, which are more important, should be broadcast directly on television. That's the first part. The second part is that the questions that are raised here, or statements that are given, are then cut very strangely by the media, so that they have no tail and head. People can explain this to themselves in one way or another and then ask what we meant by that. I think the media must be clear enough to present what was said in the National Assembly. For cutting and tearing up statements can be terribly misleading. You can take as an example Canada, where cuttings are not allowed, but the whole article must be published, or it is better not to be published. I'd also like to say a case that's really hurt me, but don't charge me alone, just for everyone else's sake. Last month, I raised a question at a meeting of the National Assembly on solving the problem of the detection of economic crime. In the media, only a fraction of my question has been published and a comment on how we Members do not know how to ask questions about the essential problems, even though Minister Bohinc has answered the question raised seriously and has also shown the problems they face in the field of the economy. That is why I would not ask any further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! In fact, I must conclude that the Group of Members of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, through their Members and Members today, are not asking questions which they have made known in writing to ministers and ministers. The written question which has been announced - and this is also in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - to the Minister of Finance, Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, addressed to him, is quite different from what you have put here. I do not allow controversy, but I warn you that if this continues, I will have to take the floor when I realize that this is happening because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members or Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! My question is that of the Minister of the Interior, concerning the planned reorganisation of administrative units. We know that there are 58 administrative units in Slovenia at the moment and that, according to the information we have been able to obtain from Members of Parliament's offices, it should be envisaged to reorganise the current administrative units at approximately 8 or 12 regional administrative units. First of all, the question arises to me in this regard: Since it is only in 1995 that the system of existing administrative units was established, is the eight-year period long enough for it to approach a comprehensive reform of administrative organisation at a lower level? Another time. Is the envisaged reorganisation of administrative units prepared by the Ministry of the Interior, in particular rationalisation, centralisation of operations, and is the proposal also consistent with the municipalities? If the proposal is meant to be rationalisation, it is likely that, if necessary, rationalisation can be regulated in the context of the existing organisation of the existing administrative units or in relation to the concentration of these units. The proposal to centralise the proposal raises the issue of the impact of local communities and also of citizens on the functioning of regional administrative units or outposts. We must be aware that the current administrative units are the only essential service of citizens, citizens at a lower level, so it is necessary to be more sensitive and careful in this reform in the context of the change itself, as this is a matter of fundamental concern for the most urgent service activities of citizens in administrative units. In this regard, I ask the Minister whether the proposal is in line with the municipalities. We know that the municipalities have also now acted within the scope of the possibility, within the framework of the councils, the chiefs of administrative units, and have expressed their problems and views on the functioning of administrative units. Already at this level there have been many inconsistencies, and we also know that these councils on some administrative units have acted better, on others worse. I wonder how effective these councils will be in regional administrative units. I ask the Minister for more detailed answers to all the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much, honourable Member Rokavec, for this question, because I will also have the opportunity to answer some of what Mr Vizjak said earlier. First, I would say that this project is not a proposal, does not have the nature of the proposal and is not yet in any decision-making process. What you and Member Vizjak are talking about is the professional material that has been produced within the Office for the Organisation and Development of the Administration in order to verify what rationalisations, what organisational effects and perhaps also what savings could be achieved if certain common professional functions from the current administrative units were passed round to the regional level, or 8 or 12 rounded areas in Slovenia. In short, it is an expert material; it is a case study in the New Town area where it has been studied, which joint professional functions can be transferred due to more rational management to the regional level. It was found that these could mainly be financial accounting, human resources and other similar infrastructure services. In particular, I would like to point out that this project, in this context, is not a matter for this study to reduce the scope of administrative services offered to citizens and citizens and that it is not a matter of any reduction in the number of administrative units. As many as there are now will be later if this project is implemented, 58. It is only because of rationality at the regional level, i.e. those administrative units that will operate in the centres that will be declared regional to perform certain common professional functions there. This study, this new urban case, has shown that savings can be made in terms of the beneficial concentration of professional services at a wider level and in order to reduce the number of direct budgetary users, because they both help us to achieve the following objectives that have been set in this study, or this should be verified: uniform organisation and management processes, to establish uniform management with support processes, personnel, education, finance, material resources, to standardise administrative services throughout the area, to provide a single management system, quality, to increase operational efficiency, to streamline operating costs and to establish the possibility of greater integration of administrative units and regional units of other territorially organised state bodies in terms of combining support tasks, namely, financial support tasks and, and so on. With this project, which, as it is said, is only being prepared and will come to a decision-making stage, perhaps if it turns out to be the end of this year and in the early or first half of the following year, we should overcome the following weaknesses that we see in our organisation by administrative units: the significant uneven burden of employees, the lack of uniformity of titles in which the same tasks are performed, the large number and differences of employees carrying out technical and other support tasks, the differences in the implementation of the same administrative procedures. I have statistics here, and there is probably no time to present the differences between administrative units, as regards the number of applications received for an employee or for an administrative worker or for a higher administrative worker, the number of inhabitants per administrative officer per administrative unit, the amount of costs per administrative unit compared to the number of inhabitants, in short, the inequality here is very high. What we want to achieve is, as stated in the question, greater rationality, better quality of administrative services and no reduction in the number of administrative services at the level of administrative units. On the contrary, a project of computerised administrative offices and an increase in the number of capillaries in the municipality is taking place in parallel with this project. This project was not coordinated with the municipalities, not with administrative units, because it was an early phase. Tomorrow we have our first consultation with the chiefs of administrative units. All this coordination procedure and the decision-making process will, of course, only run when the professional parameters are put together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Complementary response. Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Minister for the answer. Maybe just for a little while, two more initiatives. First of all, you mentioned tomorrow's meeting with the chiefs of staff. If the proposal goes forward in the procedure, then I think it would be very useful to have previously been in coordination with the municipalities. Secondly, I think it is very important that the government should take a holistic approach to this project, not only at the level of administrative units. We know that the different institutions of the state administration at local level, such as the tax administration, the geodetic service, the defence exhibitions, the inspection services, are operating territorially very differently. This creates additional costs for citizens because they have to carry out their tasks at different locations and are also different territorially deployed to carry out their urgent tasks. Therefore, I think it would make sense for the government to prepare a mutually coordinated project on the organisation of state authorities at regional and local level as a whole, not only at the level of performance of administrative units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u105	I certainly accept these two recommendations. I would like to say this that the purpose of the proposal is that when the project comes to a stage of the proposal to the government - the government is the one that decides on the regulation on the territorial scope of administrative units when this proposal is submitted to the government, the starting points for the organisation of a state apparatus at local level will also be presented in the direction of mandatory recommendations or instructions to simplify it. Exactly what you are proposing, because much savings and greater rationality and organisational efficiency are the means to achieve just by unifying the organisation of the state administration at local level. And second of all, about the congregations. In any case, the project will also consult the municipalities. We work very well with municipalities as regards cooperation with administrative units, local offices, information offices. However, I must say that this debate is somewhat exaggerated and so is the reaction, which the three questions on this subject today are somewhat exaggerated. In fact, we have just prepared expert materials and consultations, and the level of chiefs of administrative units has not yet been carried out. This only shows how, in difficult circumstances, it will implement any reform processes in the field of state administration that will bring savings or rationalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič will ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Although the Minister is not present, I will ask him a question and ask for a written answer. It is not long before we adopted new spatial legislation in the National Assembly, namely the Law on the regulation of premises and the Law on the Construction of Buildings. At the time of adoption, many critical comments were made, stating that the law was incomplete and that they would in practice not be feasible. Now it appears that the black predictions have begun to come true somehow. The fact is that on the Ministry's website anyone can be sure that there is still so much confusion in this legislation about procedures that are supposed to be precise in order to address a large number of questions. Here I have a bunch of "prints" we printed on their website, so people can even understand the law and then use it. Is this a way to shorten administrative procedures in the construction of buildings, that there is still a need for computer skills, i.e. the use of the Internet. I believe that they have passed laws that are not processed and are useless for citizens. That is why I wanted to ask the Minister: When will the Ministry begin systematic training of workers by administrative units and when can we expect your ministry to prepare a strategy for the spatial development of Slovenia and the spatial order of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The Minister is obliged to give a written answer. Dr Michael Brejc will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u109	Dear Minister. I'm not gonna ask you a question today. I have decided to withdraw the questions I intended to raise with regard to the functioning of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport, but Mr Bandelj has convinced me with his reply that it is not meaningful to do so. That too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Dr. Michael Brejc, if anyone, of course, you know exactly the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. The speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. Today, there are questions and initiatives on the agenda. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members referred written questions to the competent ministers and the Prime Minister by 12 noon yesterday. Your two questions are before me. Since you have said that you will not ask them, I thank you very much for your contribution and remind you that if you continue to do so, and these will not be your two questions, I will withdraw your word in accordance with Rule 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u111	Madam Vice-President should be better aware of the rules she interprets. That's the first time. We should also know much better that there is one rule in this country that did not apply in the previous country and that lawyers could know it. What is not explicitly prohibited is permitted. I asked the questions, I meant to ask them, and I withdrew them because of the behavior of the first bureaucrat of this government, Mr Bandlj, and I wanted to explain why I am withdrawing them. And you're giving me the right to explain my withdrawal of questions. You don't have that right because it's not in the rules of procedure. So let me finish what I started and please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u112	I'll take your word for it if you don't ask any questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u113	You have no right because you don't control things. That's why I'm gonna keep going. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much. You won't ask the question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u115	That way, it's just the continuation of this. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Then there's no point in us being here. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u117	Madam Vice-President, don't thank me, but look at what the rules of procedure say and, above all, find out what the rights of Members in this house are. You have no right to do this! First the arrogance of Mr. Bandl - read his text! He dares speak to this national council. [[turn off the microphone]] That parliamentary questions and initiatives are irrelevant, so please do not guide them [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] . An officer will tell us it's irrelevant! The actions of this officer and you are irrelevant! Only we can figure that out in the National Assembly, but not in the US. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u118	You don't want me to use the third measure and remove you from the hall! I took your word and the rules of procedure in this house apply. Thank you very much. He's going to put the next one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u119	I know such interpretations of the Rules of Procedure because I am [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u120	All right, complain to the business committee! Mr Valentin Pohorec will ask the Minister of Justice the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u121	That's what you do!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u122	I'm asking you to turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u123	No, you must have blocked it because you were pushing so hard. [[Laugh.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u124	Then maybe you'd still be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u125	Could you turn it off, Mr. Janša, please. Can you try your button if - Thank you very much! Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. My question concerns the process of resolving the claims of beneficiaries under the law on the correction of injustices and I am referring it to the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Ivan Biszak. In 1996, a law on the correction of injustices was passed. Of course, there are many roles, I understand that the huge number of applications has also delayed the resolution process. In 2001, however, the deadline for re-investing the applications of those citizens who did not submit these applications in 1996, 1997 because they did not have information or did not know that they could do so. There were also many applications in 2001; I understand that the work at the Ministry is extremely large. I was also approached by citizens to give them the information I needed, to offer help to the extent that I could, to the extent that I directed them to write, tell them what to attach, and so forth. I've even helped a lot of people put these roles together. I was sure that at least in a year they would somehow get an answer to their role, at least in this sense, 'we have received your role and is in the rescue process'. However, after 15 months, none of those I know as expected have received such an answer. I'm asking a question from this address. In the meantime, an article appeared that all beneficiaries had already obtained appropriate decisions in accordance with the law to solve their problem or their role. This article has also upset these pending citizens, who have not received any response so far. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: Has anyone in the competent service given such information to the media so that all the decisions have already been made? Because they didn't get to you, they're obviously upset. More than that, then, when will all beneficiaries, including those who submitted their application in 2001, receive an answer or receive an appropriate decision that their application is justified and that it will be resolved in one way or another? Thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mag. Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u128	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member! First, I would like to clear up a misunderstanding that is probably about the publication you are referring to. At least after what we could see in the Ministry, this is an article in the Diary of the Evening, which refers to information provided by the Slovenian Compensation Society regarding the issue of decisions based on the status that was recognised, either under the law on victims of war violence or under the law on the correction of injustices. In fact, this article states that all living beneficiaries have received a compensation decision. The operation of the Slovenian compensation company in this regard is not within the competence of the Ministry. However, this is a matter for enforcement of decisions under both of the laws already mentioned. So these are cases where either the law on the correction of wrongs or the law on the victims of war violence has already been decided. This is where we get what's in charge, at least in part, of the Justice Department. The Ministry offers administrative and professional assistance to the government commission under the law on the correction of injustices. In the case of applications for this law, it must be said that it has not actually been decided on all matters. In particular, a markedly large number of applications were submitted in 2001, following an extension of the deadline. The Commission is currently considering the applications submitted in April 2001. As a rule, they are treated in order, and in exceptional cases when a disease is involved, and the poor social situation of the individual beneficiary is taken into account by the Commission. At the Ministry, which provides some support services, we are working to speed up the Commission's further decision-making as quickly as possible. Let me say that in recent years, since 2000, the number of professional colleagues working on these matters has increased, from 2 to 5, as far as possible, given the staffing situation in the Ministry. On the other hand, the number of cases dealt with by the Commission on a weekly basis has increased steadily. Last time we did that in October, from 20 to 25. We therefore estimate that at least some 1,100 cases will be resolved in one year, so in this context we can expect this solution to be accelerated. When will it be decided on all matters, it is, of course, difficult to say this moment, because also on the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, there is a provision for amending the law on the correction of injustices, which will reopen the deadline, also for those who have eventually submitted their applications after the current deadline, as you said, at the end of 2001. In particular, I can ensure that the Ministry continues to pay as much attention as possible to addressing these applications as quickly as possible within its human resources capabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? The next question will be asked by the Minister of Culture mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. During this period when the campaign was under way, the radio student showed some strange behavior that he only included those who were against Nat. At the request of this campaign to be balanced, he whistled. At the request of some officials, there's a conversation, excuse me, "fuck you." This is unworthy of such a state institution. This indicates that state institutions need serious control over such activities. Especially those who earn money for such a public work. With regard to surveillance, I have repeatedly asked the question. It was at the SIB bank, it was at Elan's, and, as you know, bad things were going on. Three times, four times, I asked the Minister a question, and she never answered it right. Finally, I had to make a motion to press charges against the prosecution. This shows how the government carries out its business and how public institutions, in which the country has a majority share, should be ensured in the opposition's supervisory councils that this fraud should not take place and that citizens as well as we can get to the data and provide a legal and democratic state. Therefore, the requirement for adequate representation in the supervisory councils is fully legitimate. Since I have not received any answers so far, even now I do not expect them, I am giving up my answers. However, I would like to point out to this public what is happening in this Slovenia. You won't take a word from me in 3 minutes to ask a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u131	You've withdrawn the question. The thing was clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u132	Excuse me, Madam Vice President, may I say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u133	Too many ministers and ministers are waiting today to answer your question, so we will continue with those who might really want an answer. Please don't abuse the rules of procedure anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u134	Let me tell you the whole story. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u135	I took your word. Thank you very much. In the event of an infringement on the basis of Article 76, Mr Jerovšek, I may withdraw the word after warning. The next question is the question put by Mr Pavel Rupar, who will put it to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Nevertheless, I will first publicly protest against your work, but of course this is a reflection of democracy in Slovenia. This is the democracy we live in. But I completely understand you. You know, it all comes from the beginnings of this country, in fact, from the capital that some of you now have the power to shut down your colleagues, shut down the opposition, acquired on the basis of the legacy of former property of sociopolitical organisations. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u137	Mr. Rupar, I beg you, no readings that are not in the right place at this point. Dear colleagues and colleagues of the opposition! I deeply respect you, I deeply respect your right to speak, but the formal rules that we have established apply to all the same: for you and for us as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u138	I'd ask if you could [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u139	I'm asking you nicely to ask a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u140	Yes, I will, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u141	But the question of the question of the animal garden in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u142	But let me get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u143	All you have to do is explain the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u144	Yeah, wait till I get to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u145	No, it's not about sending questions to talk about capital. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u146	Do you decide what I say? Yeah, wait, where are we?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u147	At this point in the context of the formal rules, I decide that we are obliged to respect the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u148	So, respect me, because I am the elected Member of the National Assembly, respect me and please, listen to what I say. That's exactly what this is. That's exactly what capital did, and the things that were here in this national assembly, ma'am, were the owners of the party, the parties, and that's where this capital comes from, so that you can behave, ma'am. The property of the DPOs, which was not evenly distributed, is why we are weak. So you can turn off the microphones in all order. You know, our customers have to pay rents in those premises that other customers, the United List and others don't need because they've got a lot of assets. Ma'am, I'm going to talk about the zoo and please let me get there.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u149	Get started right away.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u150	I'll talk about the zoo. Wait till I get there. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u151	Mr Rupar, in a moment, if you don't start talking about the question put by the Members, I'll take your word. Unfortunately, this is the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, this is not capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u152	Ma'am, this whole thing sounds stupid, stupid. This transmission of today, these questions, is one farce, one dear farce, this is not democracy. That's all I want to say before I ask you a question. The real democracy is the transfer of tomorrow, and the day after tomorrow that people see what's going on outside of this transfer, what you're doing, that's real democracy. However, you know how to express - roughly like this - before asking the question, read the instructions carefully, discuss possible side issues with the president of your parties or in a coalition, we do not take any further complaints in the opposition into consideration. That's what you're going to do. Our demands are perfectly clear, we want democracy and nothing else. I had a question about the zoo and I asked it, but I don't need an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Also, everyone watching us today in front of television sets expects what they see every Tuesday to be answered by ministers and ministers to the questions raised in advance. That could be today. If we know whether we are doing what we normally do today and respect the rules of the game, we can all see that this is not the case. Bojan Konticz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u154	Ma'am, I have an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u155	No, you may request a supplement to the reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Because you didn't want to have an answer to the question, including supplements. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u156	Who gives you the right to give me an answer to my question and to my implementation? Who are you to give me this right? Do people see what you're doing?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u157	Read the rules of procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u158	What you do, with what power and with what confidence you do [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thanks for the compliment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u160	And that's democracy? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u161	It's good that women can also feel strong. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the previous meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I presented an oral question to the Ministry of Education, but in agreement with Minister Gabr due to his absence, I checked him out. I've re-announced it for this session. The issue is substantively linked to violence occurring in primary and secondary schools. Today, after the meeting of the National Assembly, I received a written reply from Minister Gabra, so that my announced question became irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Here you go, Dr. Brace. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u164	First of all, I'm protesting the manner in which the meeting is held. I've been holding my hand here for a while now, and I'm asking for a procedural order, and you won't give me that. See Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure. A Member wishing to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure shall have a procedural question that the Chair shall, as soon as requested and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u165	You've been bothering me for two hours to miss you, I'm sorry. [[...]] Here's the procedure, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u166	You said before that because I said I was withdrawing the questions, and that's why you took my word. The President of the Social Democratic Party, Janez Janša, asked the question or asked the Prime Minister the same question he had withdrawn - he said, "I will not ask the question", and the President of Parliament did not remind him and he did not take the floor. So, you see, you run the sessions. I just want to say and show you how different criteria you have when it comes to conducting meetings. I don't intend to do any favors to such a national council and hold meetings. Let it be chaos and let people see it, and of course the differences you make.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dr. Brejc, you know exactly that any action carried out by the President and during the meeting the interpretation of the Rules of Procedures may be submitted to the Rules of Procedure Commission. I ask you kindly to do so in this case. I am fully responsible for my actions. Mr Branko Kelemina would like to ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u168	It's my turn!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u169	Excuse me! Mr. Ivan Mamić is in front of you because he used to trade with Dr. Andre Bajuk. Mr Mamić will ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u170	I welcome all four ministers because you said before that a whole bunch of ministers are waiting, and I don't know how many percent, 25%, or something like that. I myself have had many questions in Parliament, and I can say that, except twice, I have never been satisfied with the answers to the questions. I also asked questions that I never got an answer to. In view of all that we have heard today, it is only the anger of the opposition, because the government coalition is beating us from day to day, then it is no wonder that the reaction is such. It's like one time. I don't know what or who I'd even ask, because the minister I've asked him, he's not, he's not going to answer, or he's not going to answer, as usual, and it just doesn't make sense to me. We entered Europe yesterday. Is this a European democracy, please? I don't think so. I'm withdrawing my question because I don't really have anyone to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Branko Kelemina will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! The National Assembly as a legislative branch of government and, as I believe, the highest authority in the country should, or at least often, discuss important issues concerning people's lives. The National Assembly should discuss, according to my assessment, important economic issues, for example, how to provide people, especially young people, with adequate work or jobs, how to provide people with European comparable wages, how to ensure that all people have a life worth living. And there are also a number of important issues that concern all citizens. Unfortunately, however, the existing authorities do not want to discuss these issues in Parliament, but only to try to resolve important issues properly for our citizens. As the opposition's efforts to resolve important issues have not been fairly taken into account in this country and I will not raise the question of the current authorities in public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc, the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm afraid I don't see the minister among us, but I'm counting on him to answer me orally. Oh, he's already among us, and I welcome him. On 5.3. this year, the President of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, presented at a press conference some documents in the Depal village case or affair, with which he tried to incriminate some of the highest representatives of the state authorities at that time. I will not comment on my own - in my opinion - the scandalous work of Mr Janša, who, as a politician and after all, even a minister, could be aware of his actions or the baseless insinuations he has made, but will focus on the use of the document he has presented. The documents, entitled Activities of VOMO, Information and Framework Plan of Action to ensure constitutionality and legality in case of need, originate from the archives of the Minister of the Interior and bear the mark of official secrecy, strictly confidential. Those of us who have a slightly longer memory are reminded of the times almost ten years ago when confidential documents from the VIS or the Soviet Union were found in public as a liquid tape in order to discredit an unpleasant individual. Those who have a shorter memory, however, certainly remember the case of the illegal disclosure of data from the deleted criminal judgment against Bečir Vječanovic because I fear that we are repeating this episode over and over again, but nothing has happened yet, I think it would be wise to let this event pass away, especially since this is also the case for documents from the archives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs or the police archives. I therefore remind the Minister of the provision of Article 359 of the Penal Code, which provides that the person who communicates information or documents which he knows to be State secrecy and which he has come to be unlawful shall be referred to the following specific question or two questions. I wonder: Has the investigation been initiated to determine who handed over the documents to Mr Janša? And a second time. How do you plan to take action to regulate access to documents by making it impossible in the future to prevent the illegal conduct that has taken place this time and several times in the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Rado Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u176	Mr Lavrinc, counter-constitutional documents are state secrecy only in totalitarian systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u177	We will indeed make an animal garden out of this House. I ask you kindly to report to the floor and to the manner in which we rule the rules of procedure. I'm sorry. At this moment, the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much, Member, for this question. I could have answered this. On the first day following the publication of the contents of the documents in the media, the Police requested the police to verify: firstly, whether the document is from the police archives, and secondly, all the circumstances in which the document came to the public and to inform the Minister of the findings and actions. In view of the short period of time, the police have not yet sent a reply, but on the basis of the reply will be decided on the follow-up of the Ministry, given the content of the reply, of course, the determination of responsibility, supervision, guidance, demand for further reports, in short, within our supervisory function over the work of the police. Otherwise, I can argue that, after the data collected so far, the documents on which this is discussed do not appear, i.e. the documents concerning the Depala village are not in the current collection of the Ministry of the Interior. Since the issue concerns the business of documentary material, allow me a brief information on how this is regulated under the applicable rules. This is regulated by the Regulation on the operation and implementation of public administrations with documentary material. Both acts shall detail the handling of documentary material from reception, recording, filing of matters for resolution, record-keeping, data management, security measures containing classified information and the storage of documentary material. Documentary material is stored in a collection of pending cases, in a liquid collection and in a permanent collection of documentary material. The collection of outstanding cases and the current collection of documentary material shall be maintained and stored by individual organisational units at the Ministry of the Interior. So, especially by individual offices and especially by the police. The permanent collection of documentary material is maintained in a special organisational unit of the Ministry, which is an archive within the main office. The current collection shall keep resolved matters of the current and two previous years, and each year the organisational units shall be required to select the material from the current collection and to submit it to the competent service of the Ministry of the Interior for permanent collection. Access to the collection of outstanding cases shall be made available to workers handling the matter and to the heads of the organisational unit where the worker works and to the administrative and technical staff in this organisational unit. However, only archive workers have access to the permanent collection of documentary material. Therefore, things are carefully regulated both in terms of the management of collections and in terms of the liability or the permitted approach of individual workers, and I do not doubt that it is detectable that documentation has been withdrawn. In addition, the law on classified information and the regulations issued under this law provide for specific permits for access to documentary material of different degrees of secrecy. In this way, I think I have answered the question of how things are arranged for the Ministry. As for action in this regard, however, it will be necessary to wait for the reports to be prepared by the police, to which I have already addressed such a request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u180	There are these materials on the Internet, Mr. Bohinc. You just start the procedures. We can't wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u181	Please, Mr. Janša. Complementary answer, Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u182	No, no, no. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive response, and I predict that I will ask again about this matter, even because if a cop is happy to get a child shot in the air, he is in suspension. But when the bosses break the laws, it's not about anything, it's not about a ghost, it's not about hearing. That's why I'm gonna ask about this thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Given that this year has been declared an international year of water and that we celebrated water day yesterday and that this issue has already been raised by my fellow Member, I wanted to express with my question at least a little concern for as healthy drinking water as possible. For a long time, the Civil Initiative and the Clean Water List have found that too little commitment is responsible, especially for banning the use of pesticides on watertight belts. Moreover, they point out that the Ministry of Health even officially allows the use of excessively polluted science and that the competent services do not publicly represent the results of water analyses. Civil associations even consider that the constitutional right of citizens to a healthy living environment has been gravely violated. In Slovenia, the total use of 135 other preparations, which are labelled carcinogenic on the list of environmental organisations and the European Union. But we do know that every hour doctors make one Slovenian or one Slovenian diagnosis: cancer. I am not talking about pesticides in precipitation that are not measured at all by public services, although they exceed all limits of value. Health care is not only directed to every individual to live healthy, but also the responsibility of a politician or government to care for the environment that makes it possible for a healthy life. The health situation of the population is so important for the strength and development of the nation that it must be a priority concern and responsibility. And one of the concerns, including in the area of safe water, is timely, real and independent information, which is only possible through the pluralisation of the media, which will ensure greater independence from government and capital centres of power and the establishment of new and independent magazines and newspapers, where they could also read the real truth. I will not ask the question, as my fellow opposition Members did not. I do not expect an answer, but I expect, Mr Minister of Health, your willingness as a member of the government to do something in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister of Culture a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all ministers present, as well as to fellow Members. Madam Vice-President, according to current practice, in the introduction, I would have an explanation first if it could endure. In February, a Member of the Liberal Democracy, Mr Anderlich, received a text message. That message from the radio newswoman who said, "The boss has decided to rob. What to do clearly shows that the LDS peaks are clearly in very close connection with RTV and therefore RTV is not independent. This is also why the negative part of the media space is primarily directed at the opposition, and the better part and the better part is aimed at almost exclusively the position despite all the recklessness and many bad moves. Despite much debate by the opposition at meetings of the national assembly and working bodies to put forward many good substantive and balanced proposals for solutions in the legislative proposals, its image in the public is very distorted. Moreover, many, even those interested in parliamentary events, have accepted the claim that there is no opposition. Indeed, it is not if the parliamentary event is reported to be small and orderly. The Government and the National Assembly must ensure that citizens are fully, objectively and directly informed that they are aware of the efforts of their elected representatives and that they themselves create a judgment on the situation in the National Assembly; but not that they are made by the media or, in particular, by the censors in the offices. The blockage of the media space is so obvious that it is also detected by a foreigner. Slovenian citizens must be informed at least as well about developments in their Parliament as they are informed about Croatian, which can be monitored through the Slovenian distribution network. I therefore support the request of the opposition, which I am also a member of, that the meetings of the National Assembly be carried out directly and that it ensure that citizens have a direct view of the parliamentary situation, an insight into the work, objectives and efforts of Members. In addition to the services you have organised to exercise media control, the public will exercise independent control over developments in the Slovenian political space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you very much. This was the explanation of your question: I am interested in how you will ensure the independence of the state-owned media in accordance with the legislation in force. I think it was done properly because you didn't withdraw it. I give the floor to the Minister of Culture to give an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. I thank you for again the question you have intended or have announced at your previous meeting, and you have been missing, so I have already provided you with a written answer to this question. Nevertheless, I would answer you as much as I can, and at the same time perhaps also to the Member who spoke earlier about Radio Student, regarding the ownership of the state-owned media. In the Republic of Slovenia, there is currently no media in the Ministry of Culture that would be owned by the majority or by the state. The State Funds, the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Capital Society have ownership stakes in the Diaries of Delo, Dnevnik, Vecer, but not the majority. Publicly owned is a public institution of special cultural and national importance, namely Radiotelevision Slovenia, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption and implementation of the programme and business plans is the responsibility of the Council of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, in which it appoints five representatives in addition to the organisation of the Civil Society. The supervision of the operation of Radiotelevision Slovenia is carried out by the Supervisory Committee, which also appoints the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia five members out of seven; of these two members on a proposal from the Government. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees on the statute, status changes and appointment of the Director-General of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may, on a proposal from the Council, amend the amount of the contribution to Radiotelevision in view of the increase in living costs and the Ministry of Culture receives reports from the Radiotelevision Supervisory Board. In our Radiotelevision Slovenia's press and editorial work is regulated by professional criteria and principles of journalistic ethics, i.e. the press code, which also requires balanced reporting and commenting. From the perspective of independence and pluralism, however, the first paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the Public Office of National Television, which, of course, also binds Radiotelevision with respect for opinion, worldview and religious pluralism and political independence and autonomy, is important. The Media Act states that media activities are based on freedom of expression, including the freedom of the flow of information, the openness of the media to differing opinions, beliefs and content differences, on the autonomy of editors, journalists and other authors in the creation of programming content in accordance with programming bases and professional codes, and on the personal responsibility of journalists or other authors of contributions and editors for the consequences of their work - speaks in Article 6 of this Act. Thus, a special chapter of the law is also intended for the protection, plurality and diversity of the media. Thus, the Ministry of Culture in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have direct legal capacity to adopt and implement media programming and business plans, except for inspections in the light of specific legal provisions relating to the recording of media surveys, the right to correct or respond, the advertising content and the protection of plurality and diversity, in particular the protection of children and minors, and the programme shares of Slovenian and European audiovisual works in radio-fuse media programmes. However, the Agency for Telecommunications, Radiofusion and Mail of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Council for Radiofusion have professional supervision of binding legal provisions. However, of course, I very much agree with you that such decision-making and management on multiple levels and those responsible from the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have its shortcomings in relation to all committees. This is why we are also preparing new legislation, as adopted and proposed in the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia this year, and we hope for all support and concreteness in the drafting of the law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u190	In accordance with Article 246, I would like the answer to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u191	The Minister's reply may be discussed. The National Assembly will decide on this at tomorrow's meeting of the Assembly in the framework of the votes, as well as on all such proposals. Dr Jože Bernik will ask the question of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen ministers. Otherwise, I was going to ask two questions, but after listening to this debate and your answers, one would say that they were taken from the former Parliamentary Rules - although I was never there, but I'm sure one of us was, and would explain whether that was true. However, it seems to me that we are in some strange society here to take the word of Members and so on. However, I would like to ask you a question to the President of the National Assembly, or the Secretary-General of our National Assembly, to see where all this is coming from. It's absolutely amazing what a man can hear here. Of course, our citizens don't listen to me anymore, so you won't be too bad if I put this thing on hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u193	Dr. Bernick, I'm really sorry. Unfortunately, with or without direct transmission, the rules of procedure of the National Assembly apply. Please explain your two questions raised by the Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u194	Madam President, I will not argue with you and I will try to think a little bit more about these two issues that I have had, but they are completely irrelevant. When I listened to the Minister of the Interior about the data and so on, I saw that it was completely pointless to ask a question because I would not get an answer. The second question is for the Minister of Justice. You see, we can't ask the state's attorney here either, we have to go through the minister, and he can't do anything but say nice words. But was it to warn you immediately, this state's attorney since last year, since that cemetery was discovered at -- where was it? - at Slovenj Gradc; such big words, press conference, all the fragments, how they will explore how they will dig! None of this has happened! Then comes a letter from the government saying, "Yeah, we're gonna do this" - none of these things happened. Then I'll ask. When it came to Iskra Tel, if there was something wrong with their business in Iraq, the next day when the news came out, she jumped up and said, "There's no legal basis for it." More than a year ago, the bear will be the legal basis for its investigation of the killings. And I ask you, Mr. Secretary, how is that? You don't have to answer, it's a little different question than I had written, but what's going on there is a picture, a mirror of our country. And the same goes for part of the police. Thank you very much! If we continue with this congregation system, we will have such a circus.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice wants to answer your question in one part. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u196	Madam Vice President, honourable Members! I would respond to what has also been announced in writing and what was partly evident in this implementation, i.e. what relates to the work of the prosecution in the case you mentioned here, i.e. regarding Iskra Tel. Of course, as you have predicted, I do not know the part of the prosecution's case, nor is the Ministry of Law, which was adopted by the National Assembly, informed of the proceedings and decisions of the Prosecutor's Office on individual matters. However, on the basis of your question, I will request a report from the State Prosecutor's Office on the matter at hand, on those aspects that you have mentioned here, such a mandate is given to the Minister by Article 61 of the State Prosecutor's Act, and then, of course, I will be able to provide a written reply. However, I can now argue that, based on the information I have obtained from this question forecast today, but it was not only a decision in one day, as if it were concluded from what was said, but it was done in an appropriate way in a somewhat longer period of time, but perhaps only because of public interest, it was focused on a certain moment, it seemed as if it had happened one day earlier and the next day decided. So details based on the requested report when I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u198	I do not understand that honourable Member Bernik has also addressed me with a question. What has been announced relates to the archival material of the former security and intelligence services, and I would like to help him in this regard by directing him to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 4 June 1998, on the basis of which the archival material of the Slovenian intelligence agencies and its legal predecessors was transmitted to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia within the time limits laid down by the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency Act. Thus, this government agency is responsible for these issues, which means that this is not within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. As part of the adaptation of our legislation to the European Union, this applies in addition to all other areas of agriculture, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a series of agricultural laws originally dealt with by the competent committee. In any decision, both within the competent Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the National Assembly, and in each of the adopted agricultural laws, I, as a Member, have been subjected to criticism in one way or another because of, in the opinion of certain people who are familiar with this area, I have received criticism, and this has been accepted by the National Assembly. This has been adopted by the National Assembly and it is extremely difficult or practically impossible for people in the field, in the village, there at the dairy store where they gather, when they bring milk and shed light on the problems that have arisen over Slovenian agriculture, to explain how the adoption of this law or of this legal act has occurred because everything is hidden under the roof or under the umbrella of Parliament, "this has been adopted by Parliament". See, because of what I believe to be clear evidence of the irregularity of reporting on the work of the National Assembly, I am withdrawing today's issue to the Minister of Agriculture, and I hope that our farmers will ever know when agricultural legislation will be amended or supplemented, who has proposed individual legislative proposals, who has proposed such or other legal solutions, amendments and who has voted and how has voted in the adoption of certain regulations. This has not been the case so far, because of this - once again - I am also withdrawing the issue from the protest of this way of work - the failure of the National Assembly - and I hope that you will decide very quickly or as soon as possible and allow for the direct monitoring of the meetings of the National Assembly, the direct monitoring of the meetings of working bodies, so that when we arrive on the ground we will not face such problems as no one knows that it is all the fault of the National Assembly, as is the case for the work of the National Assembly or the legislative procedure between ordinary people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you, colleague Franz Sušnik. Since there is no question, then, there is no answer. I give the floor to Janko Webra for a question to the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. I also welcome the Minister of Transport, to whom I ask the question. The aviation law provides for the adoption of a national programme for the development of civil aviation. The importance of this document is remarkable, since in Slovenia we meet in the field of aviation from the production of aircraft, which is successfully carried out by both independent entrepreneurs and companies, to a large number of sports airports and to an even greater interest in the use of various aircraft. Smaller airports are extremely important for the development of individual regions within Slovenia. On the other hand, we have an airport that is very actively involved in international space and an airline that is connected to international transport and is seeking its space in international competition. The safety of air transport is an issue that relates to a number of services within and outside the country’s borders. Unclean solutions between the individual services led to a rejection of the law by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which sought to reorganise air navigation services. In order to remove a number of uncertainties in the development of aviation, it is essential to approach the preparation and adoption of a national civil aviation development programme, as it would make the procedures for the adoption of sub-legislative acts as well as laws easier and easier to understand. I therefore ask the Minister: how far is the preparation of a national programme for the development of civil aviation? And: When can we expect consideration in the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u203	Thank you for asking me that question. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Members and Members! As already stated in the question, the national programme for the development of civil aviation is envisaged, I believe in Article 6 of the Aviation Act. The Ministry of Transport has already launched certain activities to prepare this national programme. To date, almost all the documentation needed to prepare the professional baselines for the preparation of this programme has been collected. In view of the fact that civil aviation is regulated in particular by many conventions in international contexts: the International Civil Aviation Convention, the so-called Chicago Convention, the Convention on the Unification of Certain Rules relating to International Air Transport, the Warsaw Convention and the Convention on the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage by Air, hereinafter referred to as the Montreal Convention, the International Eurocontrol Convention for Air Safety, also referred to as the Eurocontrol Convention, and at least seven other international treaties, the preparation of the national programme should take into account, including all internationally agreed programmes and Slovenian programmes and regulations. This preparation of a national civil aviation development programme makes it extremely difficult because we are constantly facing changes in all areas of civil aviation. Recent such changes relate, for example, to issues that have been addressed by the European Union in the aviation field, such as: civil aviation security, air navigation services - this is a so-called Single European Sky programme and a bill for the provision of air navigation services. Notwithstanding the above, the Ministry of Transport has already prepared or participated in the preparation of the following documents: a long-term programme for the development of civil aviation of the Republic of Slovenia - as working material, a further analysis on the management and management of security tasks in civil aviation of the Republic of Slovenia with proposals for mandatory measures to improve the current situation, a comparative analysis of the location of the long-range radar within the framework of the professional bases and participated in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia - in preparation for government treatment. Those documents also take into account the European Air Traffic Management Harmonisation and Implementation Programme and the associated local convergence and enforcement programme for Slovenia, take into account the Air Traffic Management Strategy, under Eurocontrol and the ECC, and therefore take into account the different environmental, consumer and similar policies and documents. At the Ministry, we expect to align this national programme, if possible, with the international institutions, as I have already mentioned. So this coordination is particularly intense after the events of September 11th in New York, and we expect that if there are no specific problems, this national programme will be prepared by the end of the year somehow. However, since you also mentioned the Navigation Services Act, ZANS is called and tomorrow the corrected version, a harmonised version, is being considered on the relevant government committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u205	Thank you, Minister. Would you like another question? No, no, no. Comrade Alojz Sok will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members, the remaining ministers are respected. Today we were able to listen to the President of the European Parliament who spoke about common European values. Undoubtedly, one of these values is also the right to objective information. Unfortunately, in this country, with regard to the requirements put forward by the Slovenian Coalition a long time ago, we cannot even reach this agreement in order for Parliament's meetings to be fully transposed. Mr Pahor here tells us that he is regulating some other technical deficiencies, despite the fact that he is here in this Chamber, at the moment 12 cameras have already been set up - I do not know what these cameras are set up and how much they cost - but without our citizens being able to monitor the situation from their own, Slovenian Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u207	Mr. Sok, please, and I will be consistent in my explanations. Please, what will be the effect of decommissioning veterinary inspection units?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u208	I'll get to that. That's extra! In addition to abolishing democracy, preventing people from being able to monitor developments in Parliament, so that they can be controlled in this way, of course, state institutions are also being abolished on the other hand. And even though this is done in such a way that people are burdened with getting things out of their way and getting them in such a way that they can't do it all, the party that is doing it most vehemently in this country is over 30% every month after public opinion research, and less than4% of those we warn about it. But I've been monitoring exactly two years of public research myself, and I have them here. Not once before the local elections did the LDS record less than 25%. She got something at the polls in 22%. Not once more than 4% of New Slovenia, but 8.3% in elections. And, if that is the case, dear colleagues, if this is the basis of democracy, that this is the way in which Slovenian public opinion is formed, then of course it cannot be otherwise. Last night I could hear on TV when it was said that if you were convincing someone that someone was so good, then the voters would believe it and say, "Well, if it was already decided in advance, why would you go, but why would you bother and try to influence other decisions yourself?" Well, that's basically a delusion. Madam President, I must find that, like most of your colleagues in the LDS, you are very arrogant in running this national assembly when you say that you take the floor of Members and do not allow them to explain their views. So, for this reason, because things are wrong in this country, and I hope that now that we have voted an approach to the European Union to change this, I am withdrawing the question and I will ask the question when, even in the questions sent to all Members, it will be possible that voters and voters will be able to follow the question raised and, above all, what is the answer to that question, but not as it is now that some Members are subject to it, but for the others after the transfer is terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. You have withdrawn your question so that the Minister answers, although he is ready to do so, he will not submit. Mr Petan will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! So, according to the Rules of Procedure, I have, of course, asked this question and I am also withdrawing it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There are several reasons, but it is also not in conflict with the rules of procedure to explain why I am withdrawing it. The first and most important reason is that the government's attitude towards the institution of the question of the Member States is the same as - here I am thinking mainly of the letter he addressed to us and he even hoped to write that the answers to some questions that are outdated do not really have to be answered. This suggests an arrogant attitude, and it's unprecedented. But most interestingly, we have had in Slovenia and also in our Parliament in the past week - I will say this is good - as many eminent representatives from Europe have been able to hear that Europe will not bring democracy to Slovenia, but we will have to transfer it to Europe. But I am sure that with democracy as it has proved today, we will find it difficult to date in Europe, it will be difficult to think this way and, above all, to inform the public in Europe at all. I think we're gonna have to hide a little bit more, not talk out loud about what our public information system is like. The fact is that such ignorance by the Secretary-General of the Government, that some governments are not responsible for the return of, let's say, it already excludes only the fact that laws are also valid regardless of which government has adopted them, and also citizens must comply with them and adhere to laws, regardless of when they were adopted, or whether they went to elections or not, if they have confirmed the government that approved this law. [[...]] The fact is that the meeting of the English Parliament is being carried out through the Slovenian transmission network. This meeting is very temperamental, as is normal for democracy, and no one takes a word from anyone, no one makes it clear that something is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but this meeting is running normally. And not only can they look at her at home in England, but we can watch her too - that's good. I say; that's good. We can also watch it through our portable network of Parliament meetings from neighbouring countries, Croatia, Germany, also from Macedonia, only our citizens can't look at transfers except every quarter, and only for a certain time, when the question is already being put forward for our ministers, so that they can answer what they have already been warned to answer. Okay, that's not bad after all. However, the fact is that current matters are difficult to enter and something like this is happening in the English Parliament today, according to the rules of procedure here, which colleague Jerovšek says is disabled, would be difficult to prepare at all, but it is probably such an interesting question and so urgent that it is also sometimes necessary to do so. We just can't do something like that. On the other hand, of course, we can't do a lot of things or there's a breakup, and then there's one outbreak a day. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u211	Can you slow down with your debate, it's over for a minute. I was very kind, if you noticed. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u212	Your Honor, Madam Vice President. I'd like to say that, no matter what the transfer is, but because the word must be given. It is better, of course, if even the citizens see what we are talking about here, how someone behaves, but still, I would like to end it. As I said, such a way of information in Slovenia probably cannot bring us to Europe. But the fact is, if we had better information, and even if the authorities had a different distribution, at least when it came to monitoring, we could not suddenly be surprised by such surprises as the SIB Banks, the various Elanas, the strange trade in electricity and, say, the unrecovered tax billion. Instead of asking ourselves the consequences, for the reasons why it's so, we just keep saying why it is and where you got it. Even today, we had the question of how this could possibly have come on a day rather than wondering how we would eliminate such anomalies. I certainly support the demands made by the opposition. And until these matters are settled as they should, until then, I am also withdrawing this issue, as I announced at the outset. However, I am glad that you did not take my word away from me, because in the beginning I also said it for safety reasons, it is not in conflict with the rules of procedure to explain why I did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Once again, I say that this is an abuse of the Rules of Procedure and of the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs. The question of the Member shall be announced in writing and a Member or Member shall have at his disposal three minutes to explain the question of the Member. This is how it is in our Parliament right now. Davorin Terchón will receive a written response from the Minister of Finance. Two more questions addressed to the Minister of the Interior. First, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! Last October, 80 parliaments of the Council, including our delegation, established a global organisation of parliaments to fight corruption in Canada. The main recommendation of this global organisation is that it is possible to fight corruption and the crime of white collars with the public of Parliament's work, and this is a basic reference that our Parliament should also respect. However, we cannot achieve this and we cannot successfully fight corruption that is gnawing at our society. In two days' time, the National Assembly will address Mr Tuerse, President of the German Parliament, who said at the move of Reichstag to Berlin that whoever says there is a controversy in Parliament is something bad, it is only a glimmer of democracy. And today we have witnessed the glimmering of democracy because of the blocking of every controversial word. This would not have happened to us if there had been public work and some matters of the democratic world were respected, so that 80% of the corruption and financial fraud that we have witnessed would have been from Elan and everything if the supervisory boards of certain companies were not just zealous members of this authority, who are doing everything in the direction of the political bots. Look, because of the protest against the mere glimmering of democracy, as we are accustomed to in this House here, which cannot communicate with the public, I will not ask the question and give up the question that I wanted to ask Minister Bohinc on the subject of corruption and the economic crime of white collars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič is not among us. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your answers. I conclude this item on the agenda. I don't know what else to decide, Mr Brace. Here you go! Here you go! The point is over.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u216	Madam Vice President, I'd really like to ask you to take a look at what the Rules of Procedure say! That's too big! You don't know what I'm gonna say, but you're closing the point! That's outrageous! I only find that Mr Janša could speak, even though he said he would not ask the question; that Mr Petan spoke unlimitedly, in time - and you did not take his word away from him; that Mr Jerovšek spoke - and you did not take his word away from him, but I must have released anyone else. But you have taken my word, and you have a calm conscience to say that you have respected the rules of procedure. I note that you have not respected the Rules of Procedure, that you are making differences between Members and that this is, of course, your image, not ours.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-24-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you so much for the compliment. I made it clear to Mr Petan that this is a violation of the rules of procedure, but today you had such a purpose and you should assess for yourself how well you have succeeded. Thank you so much for your cooperation and good night.
