ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, welcome! I begin the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Andrej Fabjan, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Roman Jakič, Janez Janša, mag. Janez Kramberger, Maximilian Lavrinc, Alojz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Cyril Pucko, Jože Tanko, Davorin Terčon, Janko Weber, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Majda Zupan and Franc Čebulj. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed bill on parliamentary oversight. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first signed Rudolf Mohet. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, representative of the applicants, for a further explanation - five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u2	Chairman, Dr. Brace, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! First of all, on behalf of the motioners, thank you all very much for supporting in the first reading the proposal for a bill on parliamentary control with 58 votes in favour and one against. This result also shows that it is no longer necessary to talk about this law at least on the part of the applicants. After the first reading, because we are now in the second, the legislature has made a number of comments on this law. We have prepared amendments to take account of these comments, which have been weighty and justified and which have been translated into an amendment by the commission of Joseph Jerovška. In the opinion of the proposers, the law is now also legal and legal. However, I would like to tell you once again before we have completed these things, what we will be able to oversee in the framework of the powers and tasks of the Commission with regard to the measures. Since the law is written in such a way that these measures are hidden in other laws, I will again express them explicitly and very quickly. We will therefore be able to monitor covert measures such as monitoring international communication systems such as the purchase of documents and items, such as observation and tracking at open or public premises, using technical means to document such as the control of letters and other communication by monitoring and recording telecommunications. This applies to intelligence services, while security services will be able to monitor measures such as surveillance of telecommunications by listening and recording, control of letters and other shipments, control of the bank’s computer system or other legal person carrying out financial or other economic activity, listening to and recording conversations with the consent of at least one person involved in the conversation, listening and observing in a foreign apartment or other premises, using technical means of documenting and, where necessary, secretly entering those premises, virtually buying, accepting or giving gifts or making apparent bribes or providing bribes, and security services with measures relating to police law, that is to observe and monitor by means of technical means for documenting and documents and documents, and identification marks. But we will not be looking at secret police action or secret police cooperation. In addition, according to the Article which has been corrected, this is Article 13, which mainly sets out the powers and tasks of the Commission, that Commission will then monitor the activities of the Intelligence Service in relation to the compliance of the adopted national security policy, will address the annual work programme, work reports, financial operations, the draft state budget for these services, then draft legislation and other acts relating to these services, and will consider notifications and initiatives by individuals and organisations relating to the powers and tasks of the Commission. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of this law does not close the legal field that would provide for the work and tasks of this Commission, but the law also mentions that within six months of the adoption of this Act, the National Assembly will also have to adopt rules of procedure which will specify the work of this Commission. I would like to thank everyone who has helped us with advice and good suggestions for this support. Finally, I would say that there is no effective control if there is no cooperation between these services and between Parliamentary trust. Now in these two years, this cooperation or trust has arisen somewhere, and I would be very happy if this thing continues, or if the Members for whom we are laying the groundwork for control will try to do so in the sense that we are now. As this is an extremely bad job, allow me to conclude this implementation with a German proverb saying that the dog that protects the house has many enemies. And I think by adopting this law, we're going to make a lot of friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Representatives of the government have the floor. Here is Mr Miha Molan, State Secretary from the Ministry of the Interior, with the co-workers. I say hello to him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! There is no doubt that the law, which will regulate intelligence and security services in a uniform way, is necessary because this activity in the current legislation is extremely dispersed and unevenly regulated and too loosely determined by causing problems in practice. On the proposal of the law, the Government has tabled a number of amendments aimed at improving the text and not limiting any control over the work of security and intelligence services carried out by the National Assembly. And we estimate that we have contributed or made a significant improvement in the law itself by means of the amendments tabled and by means of constructive work in the home labour body, and in this regard we also support the amendments adopted in the home labour body. Perhaps I would only comment on Article 25 in conjunction with Article 13, which deals with the situation significantly better with the amendment and understands it as an opportunity to access data and documents only in terms of the compatibility of certain measures with the measures implemented, but not in any way that it constitutes access to data obtained under such specific measures. We also support the amendments tabled for paragraphs 26 and 32. We believe that the persons referred to in the second indent of the first paragraph of Article 49 of the Police Act, where there is talk of secret workers, should still be excluded from Article 26. In such a way that this category of person may still be excluded from the possibility of being invited to interview the Parliamentary Commission. As already mentioned by the proposaler, I believe that the debate in the working body and the search for solutions to improve the text of the law have contributed to a greater degree of mutual trust, and we are convinced that this increased mutual trust, both between supervisors and supervisors, is also a significant step forward in improving the situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Commission to oversee the work of security and intelligence services as a parent labour force. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Jožef Jerovska, to present the report of the Commission - five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! At its 21st meeting, the Commission of the National Intelligence and Security Supervisory Assembly considered the proposal for a law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services submitted by a group of Members with first-signed Rudolf Mohet. The Commission invited all representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as well as representatives of the Government and representatives of the Intelligence and Security Service of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior and representatives of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency. However, there was also an expert group involved in the drafting of the law. As mentioned earlier, a thorough first review of the law was carried out. For consideration at the meeting, the members of the Commission shall be in addition to the legislative proposal published in Rapporteur No. 73, and the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly received further amendments from the LDS Member Club, the Joint Group of the United List of Social Democrats and the DeSUS Group on 12, 20, 23, 25, 26 and 28, the amendments of the SDS Group on 12, 18, 32 and 36, the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the title of the Act, to 3, 4, 5, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 20, 22, 23, 25, 25, 25, 25c, 26, 28, 36 and for a new 36a The Commission took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 17.11.2002, which it examined in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. The legislative and legal service has also made some comments on individual articles. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission for the supervision of the work of the Intelligence and Security Services has examined all the amendments tabled and adopted the amendments of the LDS Club, the United Nations Letter and DeSUS Group to Articles 20, 23, 26 and 28, the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 9 and 36a. However, it did not accept the Government's amendments to the other articles, the amendments of the LDS, the United List and DeSUS to Articles 15 and 25, and the SDSk Members' Group on Articles 12, 18, 32 and 36. The explanation of the report is also detailed why these amendments are not accepted. On the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Commission has drawn up and adopted nine amendments to the Commission: Articles 8, 10, 13, 14, 17, 19, 22, 25 and 32. If I say just a few words, why has the Commission not adopted some amendments to the government, even though they have in some parts made sense in their amendments? For example, the Government's amendment to Article 16 seemed crucial to us and, in the Commission's view, the separation between the general activity of intelligence services and the activity of national security is essential to preserving the concept of a law establishing, on the one hand, the obligation to supervise the intelligence service to report to the Commission when it comes to its general activity and, on the other hand, to report to the Commission if it is of particular importance for national security. It was also exposed as a key article 25 because the Commission rejected the Government's proposals and then drafted the second Article 25 itself by removing all the uncertainties, the dilemma of interpretation in terms of the Commission's right to control. Since my time is running out, I will no longer comment on other accepted amendments. However, we believe that in these amendments, as I have already mentioned, everything that has been proposed by all those who have proposed amendments has been summed up and that we have maintained a consistent law that preserves a uniform approach and we hope that the law will also be adopted in such a consistent form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19 February 2003. We're moving on to Article 26. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament and the United Nations, Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u8	We, in the SDS Group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u9	Excuse me. There are no groups on behalf of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u10	To Article 26, I would like to point out that this article must be adopted, because it is in some way a consequence that, at the second reading of the Commission itself, this sentence, which is going back to the article, has actually been omitted by mistake. That's all I would point out to the National Assembly is that it's actually a thing that has fallen out by mistake and is now going back to law school.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word at 26? Please, come in, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u12	I personally support this article, too. It is necessary to ensure that, given that individual members of the Intelligence Service can also appear before the Commission, their confidentiality and constructive functioning, as well as their identity, must be ensured. Of course, we are also very happy, and I am very pleased that even before the commission, even though we accept this amendment, individual Slovenian intelligence officials will be able to come to know the commission within the office about irregularities. And if we accept this amendment, we will in some way ensure their confidentiality of action and of course their identity, and I have no doubt that the Commission would not respect it by supporting this amendment. And I am also pleased that we have also been coalitionly coordinated on these issues, which we have in relation to Article 26.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 32. I therefore put to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the LDS Club of Members and the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word, please? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 13.20. I hereby terminate this agenda item and proceed at 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on the provision of air navigation services. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the draft law. I welcome Mr. President and my associates! Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Regardless of the decision taken by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, allow me only to give a few introductory thoughts in this law, not so much to the content, as to the reasons why such a decision has occurred or why we may have a different proposal. Following longer preparation and coordination of last year's 30th, 2002, the Government set out the text of the draft law under consideration and sent it to the National Assembly on 7.11. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has concluded that the proposal for a law, as it is said, is not suitable for further consideration. For the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee held on 5 February this year, the expert services prepared certain proposals to improve the text of the bill, which also contain the main amendments resulting from the draft European Union rules on air navigation services, but which were not dealt with by the Committee at the time. With regard to the European Union's rules, it should be pointed out that a transitional period will be extended for a period of time in which EU rules and Member States' rules in this area, namely in the field of aviation and in particular in the field of air traffic control, will have to be closely adapted. I would also like to clarify the basic reasons why the need for the text of the bill to be drafted to such a large extent and why it would be good for the National Assembly to continue its consideration of this bill as its Rules of Procedure allow. Firstly, the text of the bill had to be supplemented and amended in the light of the comments and proposals made in its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Secondly, the main reason for the text of the bill is that on 16 December 2002 the Council of the European Union forwarded the text of draft EU rules relating to the so-called single European sky, which differ from the previous text of these draft rules of the European Union. I believe that a quality proposal for re-examination is in place at the meeting of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. This would hold back the necessary time frame for the legal regulation of these issues if they allowed the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to deal with these amendments and then to adopt them in a second reading, thereby allowing any adjustments to be made in the third reading. Therefore, in view of all the above, I propose that the National Assembly does not adopt the proposal of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and thus allow further consideration of the proposal of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. The word has Andrej Fabjan, Slovenian Human Party - five minutes. He's not here? Then Mr. Aloise Sok, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Members and Members! The reason for the rejection on the parental committee, according to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, was, as I could understand from the fact that the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has essentially prepared several amendments to the law itself, rather than this law has articles. In fact, I have to conclude that most of these amendments were not of a substantive nature to seriously interfere with the very contents of the law itself, but that they were essentially more about the editorial amendments to this law that we are currently considering. I would not like to discuss why this is happening in this National Assembly, but that is how the legal and legislative service handles a law and then proposes to the committee a multitude of amendments, because as a member of the opposition, it would be expected that the government parties and the ruling coalition on these matters would be aligned before a proposal for a law enters the national assembly itself. I can also see that there were no major substantive corrections or proposals on the part of the professional public to which we like to always and everywhere, more or less, there were only three proposals, and those by the flight controllers and were tabled, I think, four amendments by individual Members. However, I voted on the committee for this reason, because this great crowd of amendments, through which the committee should be breached, voted in favour of the law being rejected and that the government, in consultation with the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly, should also draw up a new proposal. I think that the government can do this relatively quickly, it can do so by the next meeting, because the proposal for a law is mainly in such a stage that this national assembly can accept it quickly. I agree, however, and this is also the New Slovenia Group's comment that the Government should reconsider the solutions, namely air services, meteorology and aircraft search and rescue services, which the legislative service points out to the fact that these matters are not fully resolved in this law or, as they have been written to state that they are controversial. Our proposal is that the government consider whether all the five services that this law deals with would be covered within the same ministry. It is said that at the moment when we are essentially implementing a new principle, especially the new principle of financing and of course the operation of all these services, it would be in addition to the service of aviation meteorology and the services of aircraft rescue services other services, namely the service of aviation information, then the service of air transport and the service of air communications, in order to bring all these services together within one ministry, that is, the Ministry of Transport and thus somehow round up this solution in a comparable way, such as in neighbouring Austria or in neighbouring Croatia. At least these two descriptions were added in the government's report to this law. Let me finish. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the decision of the parent working body and we believe that, in fact, we will not make a major mistake in adopting this law, as the government can draw up a coordinated proposal by the next meeting and that the adoption of the national assembly will be quicker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Wolf, LDS, but it's not. The word is Victory Jelinčič, SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The Slovenian national party will support the decision of the parent working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. This is a rather incomplete law, which has a whole series of mistakes, even a type of nonconsistency, and this is particularly reflected in a series of comments, amendments and opinions that disagree with the solutions in the law itself. We are confident that a better law could be drawn up at the Ministry of Transport if we did not listen to private desires and private interests, particularly air traffic controllers. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that the parent committee has rightly decided when it decided that the proposal for a law is not appropriate for further discussion. We are convinced that the ministry can organise and prepare a new proposal in a short time, which can then be put before the government and later in the National Assembly, so that the law can be adopted within a few months. However, such as is now being submitted does not correspond to the current state of affairs, does not correspond to the current development of aviation in the world and is too subject to private interests. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party will vote in favour of the proposal of the parent body, it is said that the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the proposal for a decision of the home working body in accordance with the meeting's time frame today at 13.20. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives of the government. The 4th item of the agenda will begin at 11.55 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u21	Dear Members and honourable Members of the Government, I welcome you! The meeting will continue with hearing 4. Agenda items - Proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Act on Safety and Health at Work. The draft law was tabled by Mr Rokavec and Mr Mag. Janez Kramberger. With regard to this law, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to France Rokavac, a representative of the drafters of the law, to further explain the bill. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, the purpose of the reasoning is only an additional indication of the arguments which led to the submission of this proposal. Together with my colleague Kramberger, we still find that the proposal made by law was reasonable and that there are still reasons for its adoption, despite the fact that the implementation of amendments and the updating of the law on safety and health at full-time work was introduced from 31.12. Indeed, the fact is that the European Union Directive does not oblige farmers and self-employed persons to be fully integrated into the system of safety and health at work. We agree with our colleague, Mr Kramberger, that a quality move has certainly been made in Slovenia to include this population in the entire system of safety and health at work. However, it points out at all times that the deadline for full harmonisation, including for regulating the declaration of security, was too short, despite the fact that in 2001 the national assembly extended the deadline by one and a half years. In particular, we note that this category, which is mainly specific in the field of agriculture, is a very short time, and we have also proposed that the deadline be extended until the end of this year. This is also justified by the following arguments. The fact is, by the end of last year, only 1% of those who are committed, says farmers, have received a statement of security. In November 2002, only 32 agricultural advisers were trained to educate and assist farmers in fulfilling and regulating the whole process, including the process of obtaining a declaration of security. Indeed, all these reasons lead to this, despite the fact that the government here says that the inspectors will not act, in particular in a preventive sense, to advise, but still question what will happen if there is actually an accident. In that case, the inspector will have to act on the basis of the law, regardless of whether in other cases they simply advise. I am therefore convinced that it is still important that the National Assembly nevertheless be obliged to adopt such solutions as are practical. However, he must not accept laws or solutions that are their own purpose. Therefore, I still argue that it is necessary to amend and supplement that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In this case, we dared to look ourselves in the face of a slightly more serious problem. Chapter 3, Employer's obligations, which in Articles 14 to 31 of the Law on Safety and Health at Work, require the employer to produce an analysis of the workplace’s safety at work, are a statement of safety. Furthermore, in order to ensure the employer's participation of a safety at work expert, the participation of an authorised doctor, to ensure periodic investigations of the working environment and working equipment, to ensure health checks of workers, to consult the Council of Workers or the Labour Commissioner for Safety and Health at Work and so on. Chapter 4 of this Act, entitled The Rights and Duties of Workers in Articles 32 to 37, gives the worker the right to so-called self-protection, the right to refuse work, the right to leave a dangerous job, while the worker must respect the employer's instructions and his safety measures. Chapters 3 and 4 are therefore intended to protect workers and regulate relations between employers and workers, which is irrelevant in the case of a self-employed person. The wide scope of employers' duties towards workers is both professional and financially demanding and proportionate only in the case of a large number of employees. Certainly not in the case of self-employment because the employer and the worker are the same person. In this case, these chapters would only define a schizophrenic attitude towards themselves. Ten members of the European Union, including the countries with which Slovenia has the closest economic ties, Italy, Austria, Germany and so on, self-employed people who do not employ others do not even belong to employers. Self-employed workers are treated as employers only by Ireland and Portugal, and partly by the UK, Denmark and Sweden, but each in its own adapted way, without using automatic solutions and methods suitable for large employers. This is therefore a problem involving 60,000 Slovenian craftsmen and farmers. The reason for insisting on these provisions to reduce the number of accidents between farmers is unrealistic. Registered farmers who are supposed to be covered by the law are about 18,000, so that the law does not cover those people who, for example, engage in agriculture after work and whose injuries at work are proven to be more frequent than for so-called professional farmers, and these non-professional farmers are about 68,000. During the two-year transitional period, the legislator failed to prepare any adjustments for self-employed persons, no reliefs, no corresponding sub-legislative acts, so that we can continue to see that Slovenian legislation on safety and health at work to self-employed persons who do not employ any worker is much more unfriendly and far more stringent than the requirements of the European Union directives. This is probably also the reason why the number of independent entrepreneurs has been declining in recent years, i.e. the number of those who finance their own jobs and save their own unemployment. Last year, so in 2002, the number of independent entrepreneurs fell by 1511, which is 3.5%. It seems that we are still trapped in the real-socialist thinking of large state-owned enterprises, which, of course, does not correspond to the Slovenian situation. Here it is likely to look for reasons that you have easily rejected our amendment, which would solve the problem of self-employed people not only of a few months of disproportionate and disproportionate obligations, but would force the government to have a different attitude towards craftsmen and farmers. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Maybe just for a little while. Of course, the Group of Members of this proposal will not adopt the decision. It will not be accepted because we are assessing that the arguments for the necessary solution, the legal extension of that period, were so clear that they will certainly outweigh this decision in order to extend the deadline. Above all, we believe there are at least two reasons. The first reason is that this area of agriculture is specific and has not yet been addressed in providing security at all. It was formally regulated by the previous law and in fact there was no regulation in this area. We therefore estimate that this period, irrespective of whether the law was adopted and came into force in 1999, is too short in this area, because we did not have the necessary experts to actually prepare them and also to train them to actually advise and assist in the integrated provision of safety and health at work in the field of agriculture. The second issue is that it is a segment where it interferes with the personal security of an individual. Each individual is thus, just in this law, a true farmer or self - employed person is provided with personal security. We estimate that this is necessary from the point of view of the country and from the point of view of work accidents. We estimate, however, that there is indeed a substantial short period of time for the reasons already stated, so that we can learn at this time. And as I have already said in the opening recital, 1% of the risk statements received by the end of last year only from a group of professional farmers, it is said that only a quarter of all Slovenian farmers are covered here, means very little and means a very serious signal to the legislator as well, that I should seriously consider the appropriateness of such a legal solution not to talk about three quarters of the others, it is said that 75% of the other farms whose agriculture is not a basic activity, where it should also be established by the State to provide more security. We agree with this, but in all the explanations of where major accidents occur or where fewer accidents occur, then they all fall into the category of professional farmers who have already been affected by this law and through other laws in the implementation of significantly larger, stricter criteria in farming. Therefore, our Group of Members will vote against this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Well greeted, Madam Secretary of State Natasha Belopavlovich, and her co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are again considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on safety and health at work following a reduced procedure. Similar amendments and additions to the law relating only to the extension of the time limit for the fulfilment of the requirements of the applicable law on safety and health at work for farmers and other self-employed persons, which is intended to provide the necessary time for the actual implementation of the measures of safety and health, have already been adopted by the national assembly and has already extended this period by one year. With this, we Members have demonstrated our great willingness and awareness and our behaviour on the specificities of this work and the activities of farmers. The discussions that took place in our parliamentary group at that time focused on the behaviour that security and health in Slovenian farms are extremely poor, for which we received confirmation in statistics showing a tragic number of deaths in agricultural and forestry accidents, since these in recent years are between 35 and 40, and the average of the last 20 years is even 60. We were aware that the Law on Safety and Health was basically a very good basis and an opportunity for all the measures that would lead to increased safety and health at work on farms, as one year was appropriate for the preparation of all activities in this area. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are inclined to take all those measures aimed at bringing all farmers and those involved in the agricultural work into the education and awareness system. Here I think of all family members, because the nature of farm work is that everyone works here, regardless of age and status, children and so on. That is why it is so important that everyone is included in the education system, because all individuals and people are precious to our society as a whole. When we compared the legal solutions in other countries in the UK Group, we were shown that the majority of employers only include farms with employees, but all solutions are so adapted that marriage solutions are suited to local conditions, especially because such solutions also allow European Union directives and Directives of the European Union to encourage them and have been fully followed by our law. The organisation and adaptations of the work of the agri-agricultural chamber are such that they can easily follow local adaptations, as the establishment of the agri-agricultural chamber is actually located in locations distributed throughout Slovenia, as well as the time for the preparation of professional bases has been considerable, given the staff potential of this institution. In the UK Group, we note that the law also makes sense for self-employed persons to provide long-term solutions for all that the law for this segment of activity has prepared new solutions, which are certainly a complete novelty, since the previous legislation on protection at work, according to current interpretations, also covered farmers, but not in all segments. It is true that the activity of farmers is specific, complex and very broad and that it was difficult to standardise and make it into regulations, but we believe that the first deadline it offered was sufficient to regulate the area. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we decided not to support the renewal of this law, especially if we have in mind other activities which did not have the first extension available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I have said several times that it is a great shame that there is no farmer in this national council to explain to us what is happening on farms today and what is happening there. But a farmer from Savinja Valley said to me in his office, "I once took a meal in a bag to the field, and today, after all your laws and everything I have to do, I bring with me a bunch of permits and papers." In the New Slovenia Group, we do not understand why this country is adopting more stringent legislation than it has adopted in the European Union, because in this way we are exhausting the Slovenian economic power of the economy and reducing employment opportunities in this country. Nothing helps if our government bureaucrats, and apparently also have majority support for the Parliament, insist on their solutions, which are justified in the European Union. So, in Convention No. 184, adopted by the International Organisation for Safety and Health in Agriculture in 2001, specifies who is the employer and who is not the employer. And if I literally read to you how it says, "It follows from this that farmers or natural persons who, alone or with members of their households or family members, carry out agricultural activities as the only or principal profession and do not employ other persons, cannot be defined as employers." They cannot be defined as employers. Then, in Article 3, the said Convention states that the competent authorities of a Member State may adopt specific programmes for certain agricultural undertakings in which the status required in this Convention is actually achieved. So, special programs. And if we were to go this way in our country, then we would have time to put in place certain programmes that would make our agriculture even more flexible to some average in the European Union, not that we are four times behind today as regards the average in the European Union and we are adopting legislation that is hyper-inflationary in this area. Dear colleagues, it just doesn't work out. And it also states in this same convention that experience from Europe shows that it requires the implementation of such a project from 10 to 15 years; we would like to carry out this project within two or three years. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we tabled an amendment with which we wanted to extend this matter to 2013 in order to make a slightly different stand and reach the final goal that you are pursuing. The Council of Europe Directive 89/391 also defines the term employer and specifies who is the employer and who must then meet the conditions required by this law today. You know, to argue, compare and find that on our farms there is a lot of damage in working in the woods due to tractors, yes, after all, because each tractor owner must give it an annual technical examination and register it, it is said, to enable it to be suitable, and this cannot be the reason for the forest accident. And the statements required under this law will not in any way, I hope, change this situation in any way, as far as the number and frequency of accidents in agricultural work are concerned. However, the law is not only appropriate for the time limit within which these declarations must be obtained, but also for other segments it is inappropriate. On the basis of this law, the competent labour inspectorate of today's self-employed farmers is issuing decisions and one such decision has come to my attention in the office of the Member State where the first point of the inspector states: "From an authorised institution", which, of course, today is as much as mushrooms in the rain, these institutions are growing, are just counting and exhibiting accounts for the work done, it says, "from an authorised institution it is necessary to obtain an operating permit - a report on the reviews of all the assets used in agriculture". He wrote "all means of work that are used in agriculture" - yes, or does this inspector even know the work in agriculture. If I could at least write "all machine tools" or, I don't know, I don't know that they're machine tools, but not "all the tools that are used to work in agriculture," so do it! And thousands of such decisions have been issued today! This is actually a provocation, I tell you, this is a provocation and an insult to our people. We cannot accept this decision of the home labour body and I appeal to you Members, at least allow a debate in the National Assembly to explain where the ideas are and where the inconvenients of this law are. The making of such decisions is - I know I have to finish, but unfortunately I would like to say that I will finish - making such decisions is pointless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stanislava Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting! Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, submitted by Ambassador Franci Rokavec and Mag. Janez Kramberger, we do not support the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. The reasons are as follows. The Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons is already at its eighth session 3. Seven. 2001 addressed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, submitted by Mr Rokavec at the time. Since the practice at the time indicated that the categories of self-employed and farmers would not be able to adapt working conditions to the new regulations by 28.7.2001, it proposed an extension of the deadline until the end of 2002. The government also supported this solution in principle because it considered that for the category of farmers and self-employed independent entrepreneurs, the Ministry of Labour, together with the Ministry of Health, could prepare everything necessary for the implementation of the law by the end of 2002. The Committee therefore supported the proposal of the law, and this decision was followed by a national assembly. Following the adoption of the amendments to the Act, the Office for Safety and Health at Work has prepared a series of tools, manuals, manuals and other tools and has also organised a series of activities that help these categories to implement the Law on Safety and Health at Work in practice. Unfortunately, however, in the Liberal Democracy Group, we find that the situation has not changed much at this time, especially in these two categories. Let's look at some more statistics. According to the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate, between 1997 and 2000, the death rate is 20% and 18.4% of all serious injuries at work are in the area of independent entrepreneurs and farmers. Thus, in 2000 it occurred to independent entrepreneurs that accounted for 18.4% of all serious injuries. The data given to us by the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council between 1981 and 2000, resulted in the death of 783 people in traffic and labour accidents. In 1999, 23 people died in work accidents with a tractor and 30 were injured. Further information from the Slovenian Forestry Institute shows that between 1981 and 2000, 18 people were injured in accidents and 11 died while working in the forest. It follows from these data that we have a great responsibility, while at the same time we find that farmers have insufficient control over their own safety and health. I believe that we owe it to ourselves to ensure that the situation in this area changes. So it is the responsibility of all of us not to extend this law or deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have heard of an extension of the deadline until 31.12.2002. On the other hand, we have heard the number, as a percentage, of how many have managed to obtain a statement. This follows, according to our assessment, that it is the task of policy, the national assembly and governments to adapt legislation to the extent that it can be met by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in their favour or on the other hand, and today we are in a phase where we can make legislation more friendly. At this point, I and the SNS members see no reason to object. What will we achieve if we do not go to a so-called extension? I don't think we should play at least in the context where the law touches the very sensitive segments of our society, that we, the legislators of that repressive body, are going to push people against the wall. I believe and I am sure that politics in our country should just come to the aid of those who will express themselves like speakers before me, specific categories in our society. However, I would like to draw attention to another segment when considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work. He called on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare, to root out the entire law, to partially indicate the need for Mr Sok, but I think there is another more difficult argument why in this country we need to meet with this law in quality reform, as far as the authorised doctors are concerned, and to refer them to them. Not long ago, in this year's Committee, the Committee on the Economy met with so-called asbestosy, asbestos-induced diseases. These are specific diseases that can only be detected in a specific examination that detects this type of lung cancer. In our country, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has even provided a fund to pay people who have this-this kind of problems, which are the consequences of doing work, but of course the problem is mainly in the city of Maribor and in Ljubljana. According to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, between 500 and 1000 lung patients or patients with lung cancer who cannot detect this disease are referred to an authorised doctor who is, of course, in the employer's domain because of the provisions of this law. From this title, i.e. from the House of State spokeswoman of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry present today or the Ministry of Economy, we therefore call for an approach to a comprehensive amendment to the Law on Safety and Health at Work, which will allow workers to have easier access to doctors. Today's amendment, i.e. the amendment proposed by the two Members of Parliament in the procedure, will therefore be supported in the national party for reasons that we believe that from time to time the parliamentary majority should also adopt a law that will be drafted in an elastic manner and which will be written in life and will not interfere with certain segments in our society. First thing and second thing to do again. With a possible amendment to the law on safety and health at work prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through its inter-sectoral cooperation, we are convinced in the national party that we could help all those people who may not yet know about the disease on the one hand, because they cannot get to a doctor and, on the other hand, they suffer for the disease and cannot get the compensation guaranteed by the same country. Here comes the duality of Slovenian policy, on the one hand providing a fund, a fund from which professional diseases will be paid and, of course, workers cannot know if they have occupational diseases. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision by the home working body, namely the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities, we will vote today at 1:20 a.m. in accordance with the meeting's timetable. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Period of the day - Third defensively proposed Act on Access to Public Meaning Information. Government representatives join us, I welcome them, and I thank the representatives for their cooperation. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Pavel Gantar, Minister for the Information Society, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! We therefore have before us a third reading of the law on access to information of a public nature. In accordance with the provisions of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government which prepared the law for the third hearing has prepared two harmonisation amendments, namely, in Article 11 of the Law, we are correcting a printing error which is already drawn from the second reading material, and Article 31, we are coordinating with the new administrative procedure for the resolution of administrative disputes, so that an administrative dispute can be brought against the decision of the authorising officer, as proposed in the harmonisation amendment, not the government, since the resolution at the second stage is no longer within the power of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have already discussed other things in previous readings, and at this point I would not have added more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. First of all, Dr. Michael Brejc will present the position of the Group on the draft law in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u38	Your Honor! I take it this is an important marriage. Our parliamentary group examined it in detail and would have been quite pleased with it if it had not ignored the key comments that we made in the Committee's debate, when we pointed out that Article 3(3) of Article 4 of the present Article does not comply with the rules already in force in that country and which the Government has submitted to Parliament or itself. This is because, in Article 4, the definition of the concept of "information of a public nature" has been defined in Article 4, the proposaler retains a text which proves that he has no idea about this area: not the proposer or the public administration institute which has prepared this text. I'm very sorry, but now I have to prove it because it's no different. Information of a public nature - information emanating from the work area of the Authority is found in the form of a document, case, record and so on, is the law. See, the document, and I will now refer to the regulation on the operation of public administrations with documentary material issued by the Ministry of the Interior, the government has adopted and so on. And this regulation is clear. The document is written, I now quote the regulation: "created, written, reproduced, photographed, photocopyed, phonographically, in electronic form or otherwise written down a record containing information relevant to the work of the public administration." It's a document. This concept differs from what the proposer proposes in this law is a document. He proposes that the document be all, cases, files, registers, records or documentary material. So, the mixture is fully understood. What the proposer of this law proposes for the concept of a document is, by definition, documentary material. We all know that in our profession, but the Ministry doesn't know anything about it. And at the Institute of Public Administration, which prepared this, also, no, despite being warned. So the first discrepancy is in this. The second discrepancy is - well, then there is: what is the attachment, what is the matter. The issue is the whole of all documents and annexes relating to the same substantive question or task. Thus, in this Article, Article 4 of the Act on Access to Information of a Public Type mentions the matter. The case is made up of documents. The matter is only a name for the entire documents relating to the same substantive issue. So there's nothing to look at, because it's just this one, the shell that contains the documents and the annexes. The dossier is a number of documents of different content concerning the same natural or legal person or documents of the same content which concern different natural and legal persons. And again, the word file is just a shell that contains documents, like I just quoted the regulation. Register - also after this record, that I won't quote everything, look. Then the record - the same under this Regulation. The concepts are defined in a regulation that is valid and which is managed by all in the public sector, in public administration and which we also know. Now this law in Article 4 provides for some sort of Latvian that has nothing to do with the profession. Say, talk about documentary work. What's the documentary? Documentary material under this Regulation shall be all cases, files and records thereof, other records maintained by the public administration body and other materials received or generated by the public administration body in its work. So it's perfectly clear. I have already proposed a simple solution on the committee: information of a public nature is information that comes from the working area of the body, a dot. That was my suggestion. Because then things would run really well, but all of this - it's in the form of a document, and now it's just causing confusion. First of all, confusion for active material is called material called documentary material in the form of documents, cases, files, registers, records and so on. But look, it's not over yet. This law lays down, if any, or if so, that remains so, that the taxable person shall not have the right to look at documents of a public nature which have the status of archival material. I will remind the Minister and Mr Plitsanič of the Institute of Public Administration that it would be very appropriate for us to look at the archival material and archives law, which clearly states what archival material is. And, here in this Regulation, they summarise this provision; they say: "The archivic material is originally and reproduced, written, drawn, printed, photographed, filmed, phonographed, electronic or how documents were written, which were received or produced by the public administration body and which has a permanent significance for science and culture." Now look at the situation. When the material is resolved, it is not archival material; it only goes to a collection in the state authority, the ministry, the administrative unit, and the congregation. It is clear from this point of view that all citizens under this law have the right to look into the documentary material that has already been resolved. One small piece of this material, about five percent say, is available in the state administration there for up to 20 percent, depending on the authority again, and one small piece of this solved documentary material is archival material. This is the material that is essential, crucial to science and culture and which is selected by special procedure from documentary material. That is to say, if a citizen now wishes to have access to information of a public nature, which is of no doubt archival material, he will not be able to look into the material which has such status under law, because the law allows him only to see the documentary material, not the archival material. That's what I said on the board. I made my own proposal. It was said that you would study it, but nothing happened. In order to make an amendment instead of a government, however, when you hire other institutions, you can afford to spend money on things your officials might know if they read this regulation, which they obviously have no idea about. That the minister doesn't know anything about office business. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] No, no, you proved that, read the symmagnetogram, and you'll see. [[...]] If we had any idea what it was, we wouldn't write it. Now look, a law that would be just fine if we made a dot there. And since I suggested it, it's crumbling, it's invalid in its base. And that is only because I, as the opposition Member, have proposed that one professional error be eliminated and a dot made. But you don't think it's worth it at all! Well, have a law like that! Of course, we cannot support such nonsense because it is in a professional sense confused. My students wouldn't "come through" with that definition. But in the National Assembly - this law will be passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much, the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister, Secretary of State. After the performance of Professor Brejc, certainly an expert in this field, it is not easy for me to perform. He found both semantic and substantive in the proposed solutions to the hole. I'm sorry he wasn't so insistent, but I'd like to move on with the amendments. There must be so much political readiness in the National Assembly to adopt good proposals. But I have prepared my own performance in a way that I will tell you what is good in this marriage, and I will now present it here in public. I've been in this procedure for the second time. In the Slovenian People's Party, we welcome the proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature that ensures the exercise of certain fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and also by international conventions. Furthermore, in our view, the law means strengthening the elements of a modern, democratic and legal state. The right to obtain information of a public nature allows access to the operation of a state apparatus, thereby allowing better control of its operation. Slovenia was one of the few countries in the developed world that, unfortunately, had not yet had such a law. So far, the public has been informed of the functioning of public law persons on the basis of the provisions of the Media Act, but this has not been sufficient.It is important that information of a public nature is also made available without the applicant's personal legal interest, that general information will be made available on the Internet and in the newsletters of an individual institution and that procedures for obtaining such information will be envisaged in advance. In our view, there is also a welcome innovation in the possibility of an oral request for information, making the functioning of the public administration more personal and reducing the bureaucracy of the whole process. Of course, certain controls are needed to monitor and exercise the right of the public to obtain information of a public nature. Non-governmental organisations have proposed a special guardian, an information guard, and the Committee has supported the proposal that citizens' complaints against decisions by which the Authority has rejected or rejected a request for access to information of a public nature will be decided by the public information officer. And one more thing. The law will also assign a mandate to the Ombudsman, who has also been involved in this debate in writing in order to ensure the protection of the right to access information of a public nature as a specific area of the Ombudsman. It should also be noted that the effects of this law will have long-term effects. In countries that have known such laws for a long, long time, they note that among its most important effects are also increasing the efficiency of public administration at all levels. In particular, they have introduced a continuous possibility of monitoring not only by competent institutions and the media, but also by civil society or by individuals. Finally, it is also important to mention that citizens have greater confidence in the functioning of state authorities and the public administration as a whole. The experience is that in countries that have introduced freedom of access to information, much less corruption is recorded. I stress the experience of countries that have introduced freedom of access to information: much less corruption is recorded. In our view, the implementation of the proposed law, which is for the country, if we are sincere, relatively cheap, is synergistic towards the functioning of the various institutions fighting corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Richard Beumann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished Minister and Secretary of State! The Public Information Access Act is certainly one of the key laws for the normal functioning of a country based on democracy and the rule of law, due to the importance of the matter regulated. This is a law implementing the second paragraph of Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which everyone is guaranteed the right to obtain information of a public nature which has a legitimate legal interest in the law. In doing so, it is important to note that the law that we are considering today in the context of the third reading extends the right of access through constitutional frameworks, since public information does not require any proof of legal interest at all. The adoption of the law will also allow for the near ratification and implementation of the Aarhus Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Protection of Rights in Environmental Matters. This is, of course, a pillar that gives the public the right to environmental information. It seems important to me to point out that ten days ago, a directive of the European Union governing the right of the public to access environmental information came into force and replaced the 1990 Directive. The Directive lays down the responsibility of the public authorities to make environmental information available in the widest possible way, with an emphasis on information technology. In a comparative manner, specific information should be provided to the applicant within one month under this Directive and in exceptional cases the period may be extended to two months. The authorities may charge for the transmission of information, but only administrative costs; the price list must be made public, indicating the conditions when access to information is free. Although this Directive concerns only environmental information and not the whole range of information of a public nature, we can assess that our law on access to information of a public nature adequately addresses these issues. The law successfully passed the first hearing, in which the debate clearly expressed the desire that the validity of the law should be extended to all three branches of the government, i.e. to the judiciary. As a result of this decision, a well-prepared law in the context of the second hearing had to be tabled with several amendments in order to regulate the appeal procedure. It was initially envisaged that the competent government would be competent to decide on the appeal against the decision rejecting the request for information of a public nature. When the law is extended to the judiciary, however, such a solution is not appropriate. Therefore, an authority to access information was introduced into the law as a State-owned body with the status of a state official appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Slovenia. On a proposal from the law in the third reading, the New Slovenia Group tabled two amendments practically abolishing the Ombudsman and consequently not taking care of the appeal procedure. The adoption of these two amendments would result in a disability law, so we strongly oppose the amendments in the Liberal Democracy. If they had been accepted, they would have been the main focus in the most important provisions, namely in the work of providing administrative protection of access to information of a public nature. In addition, the New Slovenia proposal itself is inconsistent, as it does not propose to delete Articles 29 and 30, which regulate the status of the Commissioner and his professional service. It is quite right that the Ombudsman has an independent position from the Government, as he will also decide on administrative disputes concerning access to information in the judicial and legislative branches of government. In accordance with the principle of separation and division of power, it would be totally inappropriate for such administrative disputes to be resolved under an administrative procedure directly under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the law allows all individuals, as well as the general public, access to all public information, which will undoubtedly make an important contribution to the control of all power, so we will gladly support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Also, please choose the position of the Slovenian National Party on the proposal for a law in its entirety, Mr Sašo Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u44	The proposal for a law on access to information of a public nature is in any case a novelty in our legal order and can be welcomed in any way. In particular, we welcome him in the Slovenian National Party and do not oppose him because he has succeeded in releasing the judiciary in the introductory provisions and thus somehow achieving greater transparency and greater coverage of the coverage of this law. However, before the decision is taken, we would, of course, like to have a feedback on Article 4 on the definition of information of a public nature by the applicants for easier decision-making, because in one of the speeches of the groups of Members, it is our assessment - as on the committee so far - that there has been a meaningful interpretation of the so-called archival documents. However, we would like to highlight the only further existing criticism, in the context of Article 6, where an exception to information of a public nature is also provided for in the order number 7 indent - the information obtained or drawn up by prosecution or in relation to them and so on. We estimate that this information should also not be an exception under this law. But of course, that's another thing. And since we believe that this proposal would not be acceptable to the other parliamentary groups, it is likely that it is pointless to talk substantively about it. I reiterate that we would like an additional explanation of article 4 of information of a public nature before a final decision by the proposer is taken, otherwise we do not oppose the law itself in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The draft law is fully under discussion by Members and Members. In order of order: Mr Petan has resigned, Mr Malovrev is not, nor is Mrs Zupanov, not Robert Battelli. Mrs. Majda Shirca, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I certainly think it is important to emphasise a few more facts that have already been expressed in the end. But in the emphasis of the law that we have before us, a few more words. Of course, the burden of the law should not be attributed only to the fact that modern society is deeply involved in the flow of such and other information, but also to the fact that access to them should be standardised. Of course, when it comes to information of public interest. That information, which, if I say awkwardly, is of general importance, that is to say, which is not the data available in the country by state authorities, local authorities or public service providers and so on, is increasingly uncontrollable in modern society. If I mention, say, a heavily controlled influx online or on a cable, but that's not the subject of this law, it's just a distinction. All I'm talking about is the importance of information in modern society in general. The importance of the availability of data of a public nature is already evident in the proposal of some civil associations that we have faced on the committee itself, and perhaps the lawmaker has also tried to enforce a special guardian for this area in this law, such as general fear or even distrust of the authority or guardians of the law in general. Of course, it is out of fear that there would be no problem for those who would have access to information. Let me reiterate once again that, according to my opinion, this law is precisely the law that we can call, of course, in saying that it is "the Ombudsman" or that it is with him and especially with the Institute of Commissioners to protect the rights of those who need information of public nature. It is this special officer who will act as an independent and independent body appointed by the National Assembly. In doing so, it is particularly worth noting that the guardian, otherwise the guardian, has limited enforcement options and would be more handicapped, if this law were to be enacted or established, than the proposed officer now established in this law. And in this law, I would like to repeat another fact that touches the work of journalists and journalists or the media in general. Today, this fact has already been pointed out, namely, access to information for media representatives is already governed by media law, as we know. This law, the law on access to information of a public nature, does not, of course, derogate from the media law, but the editors and journalists will, it is worth stressing, be able to serve both laws. There may be some confusion about jurisdiction here, but they will serve both media and media, of course, first of all, they will have the opportunity to refer to the parental law, which allows the provision of information with very short periods of time, that is to say immediately if a journalist asks for an explanation - one working day in this case the Authority has time to explain that. If not, the media also has the right to a written explanation, why not give it. However, if journalists are defined as citizens, in short, as those of all those who have the right to apply this law, they will refer to this, for example, in the nickname "Gantar's Law" and will face a different process, as well as, of course, different sanctions. However, this procedure will be one month long in the case of this law, which means that the media will be able to conduct and deal with a particular process throughout the entire monthly period. This dual, not to say a double option, can also be a double public security guard, but also a great advantage for journalists who are or are supposed to exercise control over the functioning of the government. Let me also point out that, in listening to the debate, my colleague Brejc, of course, I do not agree with the doubts he has raised in Article 4, particularly in the face of the careful confrontation of the archival material law as well as the regulation he cited. In the form that is now defined in Article 4, which defines carriers, in fact, the form of a document of material, record, phonogram, videogram, etc., etc. - everything that we can store in certain ways today in certain ways or as implemented - there is no doubt that his proposal or your proposal, Mr Brejc, as you suggested on the Committee, would be in any conflict with any of the dictates we have before us, and I doubt that this would result in any difficulty in considering what information is of a public nature. It is what you have proposed, and it is even more what Article 4 suggests by using another apparatus to express what information is of a public nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Jaša Złobec Lukič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u48	The law is well formed, but I would like to draw attention to the little things that reflect the ideal image of this law. If we look at the introductory provisions, paragraphs 1 and 2: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall publish each year the catalogue of bodies referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article." It's the southern selection of so-called organs. If some of these public authorities or their institutions, as stated in the law, are liquid, too consistent and petty, they may be deleted from those lists. It's a quick shortcut that, by the way, can wipe out tiny organs from the catalog overnight. On the other hand, we can have a story that's upside down. Those authorities that are not in the catalogue are free as bird feeders, as they are not obliged to give anyone any information. That can turn into abuse, too. Article 28, Commissioner for Access to Public Information, point 3: "A national of the Republic of Slovenia may be appointed as an authorised representative." This dictatorship means that someone who is not a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia can also be named; in short, the definition is not clear. Article 29, point 2: "The authorising officer may only be released prematurely if he so requests, if he is convicted of an offence by penalty of deprivation of liberty or because of permanent loss of his working ability to perform his duties." It is certainly too much detail that does not have the right place in the marriage. Even worse, the proposaler's failure is that the authorising officer who has been sentenced is able to carry on his work peacefully. I don't think that goes with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you wanted a word on the bill as a whole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would like to respond briefly to some of the concerns about certain articles because I do not think they are in place. Thus, Dr Miha Brac speaks of the controversial definition of the term "document", "documentary material" in Article 4. I would like to point out that Article 4 bears the title "Public Information". So he's talking about what information is of a public nature, and so he's not talking about what the term "document" is, "documentary material" and so on. Therefore, the provision of Article 4 is not in any way inconsistent with the Regulation, but it could be said that it sums up what was said to be a Regulation plus - in order to be as clear, explicit - taxive as possible, we could say, the ways in which all this material, all information of a public nature, is understood, located and must be accessible. Restriction only on the definition of the document provided for in the Regulation, the Regulation has been adopted for a purely different purpose, meaning that the authorities have a discretionary space in which they can avoid, czech, which is not public information because it is not that, that is, that and third. Thus, in this sense we are more consistent and in no way inconsistent with the Regulation. The regulation has its own definition for one purpose, for one purpose, of course, here is a much broader and other character, and therefore this discussion is without prejudice to it at all. The second case is related to archival material. These changes from second to third reading have enabled, for example, termination. And the definition of Article 6 in exceptions clearly states - that I am clear and loud, if I may say so: the material that has actually been public and has been completed and entered the archive, because it came into the archive by no means gets any indication that it is not accessible, etc., is quite clear. The archival material can only be closed if it is in accordance with the Archive Material Act, but it cannot suddenly be a document that is no longer available to the public because of the change in status. This is clearly and unequivocally what the law says. What Mr Złobec said would, of course, remind him that he has probably not been involved in the discussions since the beginning and is not here now, so I do not know whether it makes sense to answer. I would say, probably not, I don't think it makes sense to answer a Member who asks a question or a guess, and then he's not even in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill, I apologize, sir, we still have a debate on the amendments tabled and a parliamentary group that can, of course, declare time under these amendments. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a law in its entirety, and we are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments of 24. 2. 2003. Thus, I am putting to the debate first Article 28 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Mrs Tisovic would like to speak to this article. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Our Group has tabled an amendment to Article 28 by deleting Article 28 because we believe that the Institute of Public Information Commissioners is not necessary, as its work can also be successfully carried out by a government or a competent ministry which already provides the Ombudsman with organisational and administrative tasks, encourages and advises on access to information. The position of the official and his professional service represent a new significant burden on the state budget. The role of the authorising officer, as defined in the proposal, shall only be the formal and legal protection of rights, which shall then continue in the appeal administrative procedure and in the context of the administrative dispute. It decides in administrative procedure and it is not appropriate, therefore, that an authorised official appointed by the National Assembly is to be appointed. As the Ombudsman points out in his opinion on the draft law, the office of the Ombudsman is also not appropriate because the appointment procedure is classified by the courts of the Constitutional Court, the Ombudsman and the members of the Court of Auditors. Administrative decisions of the Ombudsman will be subject to the review of administrative courts, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ombudsman. In the view of the Ombudsman, it is also inappropriate that the organisational and administrative tasks will be provided by the Ministry responsible for the information society, since this practically means that he will depend on the Minister in this respect, although he will have a higher position as minister after appointment. However, I would like to explain to Mr Beumann why we did not make an amendment to Articles 29 and 30. Article 28 was only opened. However, if necessary, the harmonisation amendments can fix this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 28, I would like to discuss it. In fact, I support what a colleague or amendment of New Slovenia says. Indeed, this is one problem which is called access to information of a public nature. The question is: how will an authority to access information of a public nature reject or reject a request, if this requirement is not clearly laid down in Article 4. In fact, here it is only necessary to say that I am very pleased with this debate, which has been discussed here today, including by Mrs Shirce and Mr Minister, I do not doubt that this will be accepted, but I am pleased to show students how none of the archival professions are taken into account in this National Assembly, how they actually go peacefully beyond the professional terms and are rejected with their left hand if they are not so. You know, I'm a cabinet professor in this area, and I can teach you about it. If you want to take these things, it's your business if you don't want them, too. I won't fight for you. 13 votes were against my proposal, which was quite simple. I can tell you now, even today in your debate, you have shown that you do not separate between documentary and archival material, that you do not know the law on archival material, that you speak, forgive, Mr Minister, really - yes, nonsense, well, about the regulation! This regulation, if you read it, you would see that it is intended to operate public administrations with documentary material and documentary material is all the material that comes from the operation of the public authority - everything! There's no such thing as documentary material. And once this material has been resolved, there is no archival material that you think is just one piece of this material, which, according to a special procedure that the competent archive determines, is known for archival material. And this law is going to make this officer feel bad when someone wants to have access to the archive collection, and we're going to say, yeah, sorry, to that point -- let's say, on some administrative unit that keeps the archive material, because they can't give it to the relevant historical archive because there's no room. And now they're going to demand it, and they're going to say, "Yeah, there's a documentary there, there's nothing written about archival material, it's called, you don't have the right," and it's going to be a pretty disability thing, as it is now, keep going. But as I say, so be it. I only regret the fact that you're not prepared to listen to the profession. If you don't believe me, please refer to, say, the archives of the Republic of Slovenia, which will explain to you what these concepts mean, and tell you that you don't know these things. Contact the Secretary of State responsible for this regulation, and he will repeat to you that you have no idea about these things - if, of course, I am not large enough authority for you. But is it so hard to admit a mistake? If I was a minister alone and someone with a reputation in this area told me it was a mistake, I wouldn't do that, I wouldn't. I'd say, okay, we made a mistake, okay, we'll fix the mistake. But you voted on the board, 13 against - why, I don't know. But whatever marriage you want to have, you'll have it. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 28. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u56	The Government certainly does not support the amendment to Article 28. Clearly, the reason is that this would lead to the law, because then it would not be possible to actually administratively protect this right to access information of a public nature. We do not agree with what was said to be an overly high or excessive status. We believe that it must have an independent position on the part of the Government, as it will also decide in administrative disputes concerning access to information from the judicial, legislative authorities. In accordance with the principle of separation and division of power, it would be totally inappropriate for such administrative disputes to be resolved in the context of an administrative procedure directly under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, we agree with Mrs Tisovtseva that the government can handle this well, but it cannot solve this. It must not resolve if it wishes to maintain the fundamental constitutional principle of separation and division of power. At the same time, I would, of course, reply once again to the comments made by Dr Brejc's Member of Parliament on Article 28. I would like to mention, of course, that, in the context of this, I would say that I would certainly like to be invited to a lecture, where there will be a talk about how the government does not understand this, and we will be able to continue this discussion first. I certainly ensure that it will function in conjunction with Article 28(4) because it defines public information and documents and material in terms of access to information of a public nature, but not in terms of regulation and administrative procedures for documentary material, documents and so on. In short, it is for the sake of specificity that the law will be able to function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I therefore conclude on Article 28 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and put to discussion Article 40 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. I'm opening the debate, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you for saying that I would, however, because we have some time left and I did not fully understand the Minister's explanation regarding our proposal to delete paragraph 28. Would it not be possible for us to settle matters in the same way that they are regulated in our country? Article 9 states who is who gives information of a public nature. And would it not be possible for appeals procedures to be resolved by administrative courts, just as they are now intended to resolve all administrative disputes, but not by setting up a new service in the manner envisaged by the Government, which means, of course, some additional employment or some additional burden on the state budget? And, after all, I would also like to draw your attention to Article 30, although it is not an amendment, but it is in connection with the Commissioner. See, in the second paragraph of Article 30, you have stated that the Ombudsman may have a professional service composed of a maximum of two advisers. Then, in the third paragraph of Article 30, in fact, you give the Ombudsman the opportunity to have as many advisers as he wants. If I read the third paragraph of Article 30, it says, "The Commissioner may appoint advisers and other experts for a certain period of time between officials in the public authorities" - otherwise for a certain period of time, but as much as he wishes - "They shall have the right to return to their former office or post after the expiry of this period." Would it not indicate that the law would then at least define that particular time and what that means or limit any possibility of the number of such advisers, only now do you give the possibility of actually hiring them for an indefinite number of hours? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments and on the bill in accordance with the time frame of the meeting at 13.20 p.m., so I ask Members and Members to join us, because in 6 minutes we will start voting on today's points and, of course, the ending of yesterday's 1st point, where we have to vote on the proposal for two conclusions. So I interrupt this item on the agenda and in five, six minutes we will begin the vote. I ask you very much to gather Members and Members of Parliament in the Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We will move to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First of all, we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members. I would like to ask your attention so that there will be no signs then that we do not know what we are voting on. So we are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda. Ambassador Andrej Bajuk proposed a decision that reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andrei Bajuk about the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in managing the public ownership stake in the SIB bank." Explanation of voice. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The essence of my question yesterday to the Prime Minister was that the SIB was first concerned with the governments of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia and then the municipality of Ljubljana. It is true that in the municipality of Ljubljana or Holdingu and Energetics, they are directly responsible for offering an SIB ten times the actual value of buying it without checking its real situation, that they seem not to be interested. First, however, it is true that the government of the Republic of Slovenia, or its representatives, has been co-managing the SIB for ten years. Although the government did not have a 51st or majority share, it had the highest share, 37% as an individual shareholder, but did not want to have voting rights more than 20%. Why? And at the time when the State or Government of the Republic of Slovenia was the owner of the SIB bank, there were irrevocable claims that today show up in losses or so-called additional provisions for bad credit banks. Banka Slovenije was responsible to the National Assembly after the stop, she knew all along whether or not she needed to know that the SIB was operating uneconomically, but everything shows that she cared for nothing but her daily liquidity or solvency. Why did the Finance Committee of this National Assembly not consider reports on Banka Slovenije's administrative supervision for the time when, under the previous Banka Slovenije Act, it was still incumbent on the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee to keep accounts? That's not the only question I'm asking. That's what Dr. Arhar's ex-governor is asking. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as this National Assembly, are responsible for the systemic arrangements that allow such activities to take place. The current ruling coalition has allowed self-monitoring of authorised economic auditors in the new auditing law, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] review. His proposal was former Minister Tone Rop. And who issued a positive audit report for SIB for 2000 or 2001? One of them was the audit company ITEO Abeceda, its director, Willi Perner, and Mr Willi Perner, also directing the highest body of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, the audit board, which was given public powers by this National Assembly to supervise audit firms and auditors. And that's how the circle is concluded. And why did the Securities Market Agency not notice that the purchase of the bank was not carried out under the acquisition law? These are the most obvious facts that we have to deal with the responsibility of the entire Slovenian authorities in view of several functions. We would like to talk about this, so Nova Slovenija will vote to hold this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I believe that you have made your explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Podobnik has the following word on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you, Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal to discuss the affair of the Slovenian Investment Bank at the first meeting. Four reasons lead us to this. The first is the legal and formal aspect. In our view, the acquisition was carried out in contravention of the takeover law, which applies to certain provisions of all shareholders. The same applies to the procedure for obtaining a qualified share of the bank under the Bank of Slovenia Act. The government freely transferred the ownership shares of SIB to its para-national funds and later to Energetics. The second reason is the economic aspect. It will be necessary to clarify the operation of SIBs to connected persons, as provided for by the Banking Act, which restricts and prohibits such operations by banks. The third argument is the aspect of the operation of the supervisory institutions of the Bank of Slovenia and the Securities Market Agency. In particular, the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia was denied because it did not enforce positive legislation and did not control and prevent the operations of SIB with connected persons. And the fourth aspect is political. It is the connection between the public function holders in the government and the parastatal funds, the KAD and the SOD, the members of the bank's administration and the political parties involved. These are the reasons why the Group of Members will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Jelinčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support Mr Baiuk's request for an extended debate on the SIB. In the case of SIB, it is a decade-long repetitive misuse of state money or public money for private interests or for the interests of political parties. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that these matters could not have been carried out without the conduct of the highest representatives of the Slovenian authorities, which certainly means that Mr Drnovšek must have been well aware of this matter and did nothing. He has now withdrawn, the matter has come out and the matter will have to be cleaned by Mr Rop, including Mr Drnovsk, and by those whose names are in fact constantly appearing in these matters. We are convinced that it is time, however, to clarify matters in order to be resolved, to carry out a review of all these procedures carried out at the SIB Bank, and in particular that the culprits who have smoked huge amounts of money and who have also cost them to be called to account and punished. Given our judicial system, where judges are representatives of certain political parties, this is unlikely because they have a life sentence and no one can live with them. Nevertheless, we are convinced that it is high time for the practice to stop, that the chicken thieves have been closed for decades, that the great criminals with white collars are walking around, laughing happily in a mustache of the judicial system, the system of persecution, and in particular all of us citizens and citizens. Once again: The Slovenian national party will support, even gladly, the demand for an expanded debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Potts, on behalf of the Group of Members, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal to hold a debate on the Prime Minister's response to the issue of SIB. From the known data so far, it can be said that there is a reasonable suspicion that the operation of the bank is a poor management. It may be said that it is a reasonable suspicion that decisions taken in the interests of an individual have been taken and that there may be a reasonable suspicion that the competent authorities have failed to exercise their decisions and controls in accordance with legal powers. If any of this is true, then the worst thing would be that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on suspicions that exist, does not provide grounds for objectively identifying the facts. We therefore believe that the facts must be fully divulged, that the decision-making process, mandate and responsibility of everyone in this process must be fully established, and that personal exploitation is also a personal offence, including punishment. We therefore agree that this will also be discussed by the State Assembly in the hope that the debate will also be properly prepared and with arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote, Mr Vnučec, also on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Respectable. We will also support in the Youth Party the proposal to hold a debate in this National Assembly in the case of SIB, for the reasons already stated, and also because we believe that we cannot go beyond this House, such possible irregularities, and especially because we have also heard in this House what the congregations should do and what they should not do, and banking is such a thing as is not a matter of municipalities and local self-government. Local self-government is supposed to deal with purely other matters. This is also a problem of the economy of such an investment. And if everything that we've heard so far is true, we think it's imperative that we discuss this in view of the fact that the same names appear in other matters, and therefore it's time for this to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrič also – explanation of vote, also on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members has also decided to support this proposal in order to hold a debate at a future meeting. Why? The reason is simple. The banking system is important for each economy, for each country. And we don't care how the banks operate in accordance with the laws that we adopted in the National Assembly and in accordance with the instructions and regulations of the Bank of Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that it is right to hold this debate to come clean with those that, as the media say, and as is heard in the public, there have been machinations that individuals at the expense of this act, how Holding and the Slovenian Investment Bank have concluded certain contracts, have taken advantage of individuals. That is why we believe and we will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I pray for some peace in the Chamber when speakers speak. Mr. Anderlich, please. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u73	It is clear that it is becoming an institute of debate on the answer to the question of a fundamental movement of action in this national assembly, which I think is wrong and wrong. It is necessary to know that, of course, in this debate in the coming meeting, we will not be able to discuss all the dimensions of this so-called SIB story, but only the response of the Prime Minister to a specific question. Of course, I suppose Mr Bayuk wants to do this debate because he is not satisfied with this answer. If we would like to discuss this issue thoroughly, then it would certainly be necessary to include a specific point in the meeting of the National Assembly, to prepare the relevant material and to devote more time to this and to approach the debate in a different way than to approach the debate on the answer to the question. I am convinced that it is essential to obtain immediately the findings of the institution which, by law, are empowered to control and monitor the operations of banks and, of course, of these banks in particular. As I know, in the city of Ljubljana, in the previous days, the relevant conclusions were adopted at a night meeting and the facts relating to the sale of this bank were already discussed and clarified by both the Institute for Audit, both the Anti-Corruption Office, both the Securities Market Agency and the Bank of Slovenia and the Central Supervisory Institute for Banks, and there is even an already investigative commission, if I understand correctly, formed and will try to reach some conclusions. I therefore believe that this debate will be limited in view of these limitations. However, if you believe that it will contribute to clarifying the circumstances in which the sale took place and all other things related to the bank and, in the opinion of some, to the harmful consequences, then we support this clearance. However, I am sure that we cannot do this in this way, but rather at a prepared point, as I said, or at the very least within the framework of the commission of inquiry, where all of the people I have spoken about can be invited in one way or another by the reports they are making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote also on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Brejc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The Group supports Dr. Bajuk's proposal, because it is clear that in a time-limited response, the Prime Minister probably could not tell everything he could say, but also all those who think that this is one of the other things to say, transition stories, Slovenian transition stories, that it is still on the agenda to open up all the issues to open up all the dilemmas, so that the debate on such an important topic as the SIB Bank does not close. The SIB bank is, of course, one story we will talk about next time, but if the proposal is put to the vote. What's most important about this is that all of us who have an interest can discuss this in relation to what has been put to the Prime Minister, talk, ask questions, and in this way also act in the sense of an informed Slovenian public about such a delicate, political, financial issue, which of course has many consequences. I think that in this debate, despite the limitations that Anderlich mentioned earlier, we will be able to demonstrate our interest in clarifying these matters. In this way, I am convinced that the public will also be more aware of the circumstances in which this happened and of the persons responsible. I hope that, as a result of this debate, an investigative commission will be formed, which will take a closer look at this. In short, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In his own name, he wishes to explain his voice, Mr Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u77	I will also vote in favour of this proposal. However, I would like to say in this explanation of my vote that I fully agree with what Mr Anderlich has said. However, I would like to recall a possible debate a month ago when we discussed Elena, when we discussed the funding of 1.4 billion, and then the panellist drew up eight conclusions to be adopted by the State Assembly following the debate in order to carry out what you had just talked about, colleague Anderlič, and then even the Rules of Procedure Commission interpreted that it was not possible to draw conclusions and to vote on the conclusions. I propose that the National Assembly change its position, that conclusions be drawn up after the debate and that the conclusions be voted on. Then it will be possible to get to all the materials that the applicant needs in order to be able to discuss the matter in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of this decision in particular because I would simply like to resist in some way as a Member of the people, a Member of the people, against the system of action of the authorities which makes such legislation, that only thieves in this country are actually protected. And all honest citizens get hurt. It's absurdity over absurdity. And you defend all these things, and do not let them, for the first time, that the law should be made in such a way that thieves should be punished for their evil works and deeds which they do. Even it is found that they are essentially made almost legally. The rule of law allows that to happen. And you don't even let this be discussed. That's unacceptable. Yesterday, you did not allow this to happen to some of the viewers or citizens who are watching a meeting of the National Assembly in front of televisions, in order to find out, you are against even discussing such things in the National Assembly. Yeah, well, that doesn't happen anywhere in the world. I think that at least this possibility of a national council is that there is something trying to enlighten, clarify and also requires the responsibility of all those who have been involved in this system of abuses, but that is not an option for you either. You are in every way trying to get things under the carpet and that the actual system is moving its way forward. In short, you're supporting all this scoundrel and you'll look at it further. That's what you're going to show right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u80	Voice explanation, Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, a person has two ears and one mouth to listen better, but sometimes we do not know what anyone wants or what someone is saying despite this addition. Look, our Group of Members has earlier made it very clear that it supports the debate on this as it is set up as it is presented and as it will be done. And it's very serious that everyone in this group obviously thinks so. I'm sorry, Mr Kelemina, I don't polish these things, I'm just mentioning it because you said it earlier. I'll even take it back, some gentleman from some parliamentary group. I will, of course, support this matter for a simple reason, may I speak, Madam Vice President? [[...]] Yes, ma'am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u82	Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u83	Don't push it, please. It's not good to encourage the unhappiness that no one here wants to have. We want to hold this debate. The warning given by colleague Anderlič goes only in this direction that it is limited in business and nothing else. We will have this business limit the next time we talk about it. That is all that has been said from the point of view of this Group of Members. However, as I personally support this debate, we will carry out this debate as it has been submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision and a vote on the proposal for a decision. We will vote on the proposal for a decision as it has already been presented. We're voting! There's 63 of us in attendance. 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, please? Mr Kebrič proposed a decision that reads as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Ivan Kebric's question on the presentation of wage movements by the Bureau of Statistics. Explanation of voice. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The Minister of Finance's response to the first part of my question was not satisfactory. So I also asked an additional question, where the person who read the magnetogram answered me only partially again. However, he has given me very much in certain matters, and I have therefore proposed this decision to hold a national assembly at the next pay hearing. Why? Because we're pretending to be married. If necessary, we Members will change that part of the law or that law that allows, forgive the expression, the cheaters, to cheat this country and to cheat both institutions, which have also benefited a large consumer from funds from the state budget. How to avoid paying not only taxes but contributions to health insurance and pension insurance is simply not acceptable. To play in such a way that they pay one part of the employee's salary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u86	Mr. Kebrich, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u87	they are forced to buy products in that company or in that store to enable them to make more profits on the other hand, but they themselves reduce their basic gross salary, from which the pension base will then be calculated and everything else. [[...]] That is why I believe that the data that the Minister of Finance has mentioned, which he has unfortunately only partially obtained from the Statistics Office, and I believe that you will support this proposal, that we will know what happens to salaries, how wages are covered, how they are accounted for, and that we will also learn more about the negotiations of the Economic Social Council, where there are three partners: employers, employers and the government, not only that we will have information from the public media. Therefore, our Group of Members will support this proposal and we appeal and expect you to understand and that you will all be equally interested in this consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 58 present, 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - second reading of the bill on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, first of all to vote on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups, the LDS, the United Nations List, the SLS and DeSUS, to Article 26. We're voting. There are 61 in attendance, 55 in favour, 2 in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the amendment to the 32nd members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 62 in attendance, 60 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u89	Madam President, I would like to ask, given that Law 38 has only two articles and that only two articles have been amended in order to further - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, since the conditions have been met - a third hearing has been held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138, the business conditions for such a proposal of the proposer shall be met. We are moving on to a decision on this proposal to hold a third consideration of the bill at this meeting. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 present, 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The National Assembly will therefore carry out the third reading of the draft law after the end of the agenda for this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on the provision of air navigation services. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the provision of air navigation services, the second treatment, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting! There are 62 of us here. It's 51 votes against 9. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on safety and health at work, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Safety and Health at Work, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. Voice explanation, Mr. Sok. I'm sorry, Mr. Sok raised his hand earlier. Mr. Brenčich. Allow me, Mr. Sok. Mr. Brenčič, first you explain your voice. Here you go, Mr. Brenčich. I ask you kindly to tell me if this is on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly explain my voice in my own name. The proposal for a decision to be decided is that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Of course, this proposal for a decision was discussed by the home labour body following the consideration of this proposal for a law at the next meeting, when a full examination had already been made. I'll support the proposal. However, I do not support the content of the proposal for a decision. The law, as it is, is an appropriate basis. In view of the procedure afforded by the new Rules of Procedure, a proposal for this Act is put forward in the case of the home labour body in such a way that we can stop it somehow in the procedure. I'm sorry. However, I would like to say that there were certainly too many arguments in this kind of decision that the National Assembly would accept it, such as this, but that was not the case at the time. The bill that the mother's labour body has considered and on which we are voting today is certainly something that would deserve the current attention of this tribe, not because we are modifying the basic content and purpose of the law, but because we are giving the possibility that some of the debtors to whom the argument arises that they would somehow be granted a reasonable extension of their time of entry into force may be prepared to do so. This decision will certainly be voted on. However, I expect, given the many arguments behind this bill, that the government will come up with a proposal to include its chapter on self-employed and farmers in the law and thus make the law of Europe comparable and useful. There are arguments for that, and I expect that. Today, I see virtually no different behaviour than to conclude this procedure, which is governed by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, explanation of vote, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. I myself think that if the National Assembly wanted to act responsibly, it would not have confirmed the position of the parent working body and would have voted against this decision, which was published in the Rapporteur. Why not? Simply because, at this point in time, in compliance with the law, there are large numbers of self-employed farmers and craftsmen who have committed an offence; in particular, they have not fulfilled what they should have done by now. This deadline would be wise, as proposed by the proposer, to extend for at least six months and at that time see what can be done with this law, because, as we have argued, this law is contrary to the European Labour Convention and also to the directive issued by the European Union, which defines the term employer. This law should also be amended for reasons which I have already presented in the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members, when I presented the decisions taken by self-employed farmers and independent craftsmen by the Labour Inspectorate. Here I have a decision to give to the self-employed farmer in point 1 to obtain the necessary operating authorisation from the authorised institution, namely a report on the review of all the means of work used in agriculture. Such a decision is, to put it mildly, impractical. It is not possible for a work inspector to issue decisions over someone's thumb to obtain a report on all the funds he uses in his activities. What does that mean? This term is undefined and impossible to execute. It then states that this farmer must carry out an examination and test of electrical and electrical installations every three or two years. I don't know what legislation should allow electricity installations to be inspected on their farm every three years. And point 4, "keep the prescribed records under the law on protection and health at work" and then there are six different records or documentation that a farmer should keep on his farm. I think that such decisions can be issued to individual companies that are actually employers and who employ workers, not to self-employed farmers. For this reason, this law needs to be corrected, and I propose once again that we vote against the decision proposed by the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I myself will vote against the proposal for this decision, because I believe that the National Assembly is obliged to adopt such solutions as are feasible and not such laws as are intended for itself. The law, which came fully into force as of 31.12.2002, on safety and health at work, is already one such solution. If the legislator does not have the hearing to hear that the reasoned comments and solutions are implemented and only the information that only 1% of the farmers' undertakings have received a risk assessment statement by 31.12.2002 is only one of the types of arguments that would force this national assembly to extend the deadline for obtaining a risk assessment declaration. The fact is that agriculture has not been included and farmers have not been included in the system of safety and health at work until then, until this law. They were all other industries. In addition to being significantly more specific, broader and more complex, this activity certainly takes a substantial amount of time to adjust. I simply don't understand, for the first time, the governments, the ministries, which, in their arguments against it, said, "The inspectors will advise in the first place." What if there's an accident? In this case, however, the inspector will have to act by law. And one more thing. If we are a rule of law, of course, the law must be enforced when it enters into force. In this case, we know that's not possible. I will therefore vote against such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u97	Madam Vice-President, if it were to happen that the majority in the National Assembly would reject the proposed proposal for a decision, could you answer our question: What is the procedure with the proposed law?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u98	The National Assembly examines the request and prepares a complementary proposal, saying that the point is interrupted and the mother labour body begins to work on the law. If this decision is not adopted, the draft law will deal with the working body in the second reading within the framework of the reduced procedure and will prepare an additional draft law for consideration at one of the next meetings of the assembly. If he's not accepted. Procedurally, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I have to be included in the title of the president of the home working body on a case-by-case basis. We have already done this and expected the college to include in the session, the plenary session, what remains, the title of the law. However, the college or interpretation was different, so the mother's working body had to reconvene the meeting and be defined from this point of view to the decision referred to in Article 128(2). Mother's working body is over, we don't have any more rules of procedure to do. That's how I see it. However, if the interpretation is as given by the President, I am obliged to correct my explanation of vote and, of course, I will vote against this decision, if that is the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u101	I don't think there's anything else but bringing the procedure to an end and getting the law out of the agenda. Because the marriage with the title is not the law, and it's the law. This is just a sort of common sense to end the procedure. There's no point in going back to the board because he's already been. I believe that these dilemmas, if the proposal were rejected, will not be at all and that we will conclude the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Unquestionably, the rules of procedure are clear. If the National Assembly were to make a different decision now, regardless of the fact that it remained only an address from the law, this would be an order to the parent’s working body: prepare the law. New, of course. If we return to the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on safety and health at work is not suitable for further consideration. We are now voting on this decision. We're voting! There are 57 of us present. The vote was 38 to 18. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed and I am thus concluding this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - third reading of the draft law on access to information of a public nature. We will vote on the amendments tabled, namely, we will first vote on the amendment to Article 28, with a note because this amendment is substantively linked to the next amendment of the same proposal, namely the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 40, and if it is not adopted, the amendment to Article 40 is irrelevant. We are therefore voting first on the amendment to Article 28 of which the New Slovenia Group is proposing. If not adopted, the amendment to the 40th Article will be irrelevant. We are therefore voting first on the amendment to Article 28. Vote explanation, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u103	Although I support this amendment, it must be deleted because it is not clear what information is of a public nature or is the definition of too narrow. The law provides that only information of a public nature, which has the status of documentary material rather than archival material, can be examined, even more so, the law repeals paragraph 138. the articles of the Law on Archives and Archives and the first paragraph of Article 40. Only to illustrate what the first paragraph of Article 40 of the Archives Act says: "Public archive material shall be used for permitted purposes on the basis of the application of the archive beneficiary." Tose says this paragraph no longer applies. However, the law does not allow you to see the archive material because the definition is too narrow. Therefore, this delegate referred to in Article 28 will not be able to function as it could if the definition were as necessary. I find that in professional terms, marriage is bad. He can't hold his professional judgment. At least after this debate, the Minister and liberal democracy have been strictly ignored and I have no choice but to object publicly. I can ask the students to separate the terms, but I can't ask the minister to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I am certainly not going to support this amendment alone, because by adopting this amendment we would actually adopt a disability law that would no longer allow a complaint under the administrative procedure. That's why I'm not going to back him up, and I'm also calling on the others not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 28. We're voting. There are 56 present, 19 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted, which means that we will not vote on the next amendment related to this amendment because the amendment to Article 40 has become irrelevant. We have therefore ended our vote on the amendments. The Minister has already announced that we will also decide on two harmonisation amendments. The amendment to Article 11 is entirely editorial in nature and cannot therefore be considered as harmonisation. We must therefore vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 31 to delete the word "government" in the text, which is replaced by the word "authorising officer". We are moving to a vote on this harmonisation amendment, i.e. to Article 31. We're voting. There are 58 in attendance, 37 in favour, 5 in favour. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We will now move on to a full decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 60 in attendance, 44 in favour, 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u107	We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, the draft law on the amendment of the contract for the financing of the decommissioning of the nuclear power grid and the disposal of radioactive waste from that power plant. It's an emergency procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking the Minister if he wants to explain his opinion further? Please, Minister Digger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u108	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members. This proposal for a law is one of the two accompanying proposals of the law, together with a proposal for a law on ratification of an interstate agreement on the regulation of status and other matters relating to investment in the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. This law has three substantive articles, of which there are two articles which constitute the operational implementation of the Interstate Treaty. It is a matter of determining that he is liable to pay a contribution to the decommissioning of Eles Gen, which is foreseen in the Interstate Treaty as an undertaking that takes over half of the electricity on the Slovenian side. The second article of the bill is an article which is not directly linked to the previous implementation of the Interstate Treaty, but is an article imposing on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, by the end of this year, the original proposal was by the middle of the previous year, revised or amended or adopted amendments to the decommissioning programme, which has already been adopted in the middle of the 90 years and needs to be revised or so-called expert review based on new expertise. The bill, as has already been said, should in fact be followed by an interstate treaty, but in these discussions with representatives of the Posavina municipalities and with the Posavina Members, where a number of concerns have been expressed, if there is insufficient guarantee that the Slovenian State will take certain steps, then we have written down this bill with these concrete dates and have also proposed it for you to be adopted by the Members and Members of the National Assembly. In fact, we wrote down the bill a little awkwardly, the government's law enforcement department had comments. These comments were translated into amendments which he accepted as his Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. I can say that we also support these amendments on behalf of the government, because they only improve the text of the bill, which we have already thought to write in this form. I therefore propose that you adopt the bill together with the amendments of the Committee and with another editorial amendment, which I think was tabled by Mr Branko Janc already on the amendment of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The competent committee of the National Assembly has considered this bill and I give the floor to my colleague Janc to complete the committee's explanation and then I will give the floor to the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. At its 13th emergency meeting, held on 25.2., the Committee on Infrastructure and Environment considered a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which it sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for treatment following an urgent procedure by the Government. In its opinion, the legislature found that the reasons and objectives of the proposed law were not clearly presented. According to its assessment, the provisions of the current law do not constitute an obstacle to the implementation of the review of the current decommissioning programme of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant if such a programme is to apply to a new common programme, in accordance with the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other relations relating to investment in, its exploitation and decommissioning, which is not yet part of the Slovenian legal system. For this reason, in the opinion of the Service, any proposed solutions based on the proposal of ways of regulating relations between the Parties are premature, and they also introduce non-consistency into the text of the applicable law itself. After further explanation of the individual articles of the law by the representative of the proposed law, the Committee moved to a second reading and, in accordance with the comments of the service, prepared or adopted the following amendments, namely the amendment to Article 1, the amendment to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 3 of the Act. The amendments adopted to this three Article of the Act have completely amended all three Articles. Taking into account the amendments adopted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133, a supplementary proposal has been prepared for the amendment of the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. They will now present their views to the parliamentary groups. First, a fellow Master Vizjak, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u112	Thank you very much, distinguished President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister with colleagues. The Social Democratic Party has always opposed the ratification of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant Treaty, as this Treaty is weak and does not address key issues of the operation of this facility in particular for the future. It is true that they have clearly resolved the issues behind this agreement, namely, the financial side of the debt cut-off and all that. However, they forgot to resolve key issues, open issues ahead. That is why we cannot support the solutions contained in this Treaty. This amendment to the law is an attempt to adapt the existing law and the existing operation of the Fund to a ratified contract, which has not yet been ratified and is not in force at all and the question is whether or not it will ever apply. We are now adopting a bill that somehow solves complicated contracts. I think that the key problem is that Article 11 of the Treaty refers to the financing of two separate funds to finance decommissioning and disposal. The same Article also provides that the two Parties shall finance each half of the costs associated with the common programme of decommissioning and decommissioning of the RAA. Since the adoption of common programmes is a complete uncertainty and because Croatia cannot be forced by a contract that takes over half of the RAO and spent fuel and because the availability of funds from the Croatian fund is unrealistic, the provisions of this Article 11 of the Treaty are totally inadequate. With this amendment, the law somehow seeks to establish this fund, the existing fund, to transform it into this part, half of this fund on the Slovenian side, and, on the other hand, Croatia is expected to establish its new fund in accordance with the ratified contract. I would also draw attention to the draft directive of the European Union regulating the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, as well as the basic principles and requirements for the safety of nuclear facilities and the financing of decommissioning. In this Directive, the responsibility for the decommissioning of a nuclear facility and the safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste lies with the requirements of this Directive, the country in which the nuclear facility is located, which is perfectly logical. We are now, because of the weakness, the inadequacy of dealing with this issue in the treaty, improvising, adopting a new law that does not even have the need for a ratified contract. The question is whether this ratification will take place. In short, it is re-improvement, an attempt to correct something bad, and I think that the rule of law should not allow and tolerate such ways. It's about playing with important things about the future. I believe that the Slovenian side will probably continue to raise funds in this fund. The big question is what the Croatian side will do, whether there will also be enough money in Croatia to finance the programmes. Finally, she wondered whether Slovenia would somehow have to take care of everything with half the funds raised, because it would not be the last time that the directive, which is now in the draft, would be adopted in this part. From the perspective of Slovenian taxpayers, I think this arrangement is totally unacceptable. You must know that in the event of ratification, half the electricity would be re-supplied by Croatian parties. With this, there is great uncertainty as to whether money will really be spent in the decommissioning fund from this half that goes to the Croatian side and whether this money will ever come back to Slovenia to service these contents. That is why we have always proposed that the fund should be separated from the electricity produced, not only from the part of the Slovenian energy, and that this is then also a guarantee for the successful execution of the programme. We believe that this solution to the weakness of the contract is inappropriate, legally questionable, unconsistent and is not proud of the Slovenian legal order and even less so of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u113	Comrade Podobnik gave up his word by inviting my colleague Lenk to speak, neither is he. Comrade Lenko? No, no, no. Comrade Sok, please have the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. What bothers us very much in our parliamentary group is the way of some sort of handball in the last days, the last weeks in this national assembly. We want to change the constitution quickly, and the solution is now approaching, as well as a decision such as the nuclear power plant agreement. Even in our parliamentary group, of course, we are convinced that, as far as this decommissioning fund is concerned, the government is now trying to change what it has negotiated poorly with this bill and what is unacceptable to the Slovenian side in the agreement. Before me, the speaker said that the solution, which lays down two funds to be responsible for decommissioning and storage, is that this is, in fact, completely irresponsible and unacceptable. Unresponsible and unacceptable because the building is on land or in Slovenia, and this problem will have to be solved by the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to remind you that years ago attempts have been made, efforts towards obtaining a suitable location for the disposal of radioactive waste in Slovenia. I myself recall that one of the locations was also envisaged near the area where I live, in the Haloz area. I know how much opposition the local population had at the time, how many demonstrations had turned out and how much opposition there had been to such a decision. Who can today guarantee that this country will actually find a suitable location by 2007 and then build a suitable landfill by 2013? Now, with this solution offered by the government today by this bill, some nonconsistentity is being put in place towards ratification. Thus, Croatia will save its half of nuclear waste in 2023 and 2025, if, of course, the operation of the power plant will not be extended for another 10 years or more, and we will save our part much earlier. Such a solution is, I am sure, totally unacceptable for the local community, for the congregation in which the nuclear plant is located. Because it is clear that at least half of nuclear waste, if ratified on one hand and on the other, will remain in Krk until at least 2025 and probably a little longer. The only solution to this problem would be that there was only one decommissioning fund in place to raise funds in this fund, so that these funds could be included in the electricity price, which, in fact, could not be negotiated with the Croatian side at this time, or as an opposition Member, I conclude that you have been negotiating poorly. That the bill you are offering to the National Assembly today is unclear and that it does not really know what this is supposed to mean in practice in the future, the legislature of the National Assembly also warns. Although I must conclude that the report of the Infrastructure Committee was received at the table just before this item of the agenda began or during the debate itself and that it is not possible to fully examine this in such circumstances. That is why, honourable President of Parliament, I ask and remind you that before making a decision, you will be able to inform Members of this report in fact or to order a suitable break in which we will be able to examine and examine all that is written. In the opposition, we are not in favour of such swift, ad hoc decisions without knowing the background of the planned corrections. However, we are convinced that the government wants to fix something with this, which is actually, if I say so myself, itself has screwed up in this ratification of the Interstate Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. If I understand correctly, you have announced the request of the parliamentary group for a recess. The task force should consult on how long it will take for a recess to be ordered before the decision is taken. So please let me know how much time you need to do this. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree with the opinion of the legislative legal service, which notes that the reasons and objectives of the proposed law are not clearly presented. Furthermore, the fact remains that the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in, exploitation and decommissioning of, the Krška Nuclear Power Plant has not yet been ratified. Otherwise, this Treaty also provides for the preparation of a programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel within 12 months of its entry into force. However, the Government notes in its explanation of the bill that in the programme of decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in September 1996 that it is necessary to carry out a review of this programme every three to five years. It is not just a coincidence that the government has recalled the commitment to receive a decommissioning programme, which is the basis for calculating the necessary resources for decommissioning a nuclear power plant and providing a landfill for low and medium-sized radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, right now, seven years after the adoption of a real nuclear power plant programme and not in three years, as recorded in 1996. The adoption of a new programme is also not a condition for amending this law. The Government's law is changing mainly due to the provisions laid down in Slovenia's extremely poor interstate nuclear power plant contract, which we know has not yet been adopted. As a result, as stated by the legislative service, all proposed solutions in the draft law, based on the proposed way of regulating relations between the Parties, and introducing non-consistency into the text of the current law alone, are re-enacted. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we strongly oppose the provisions of the amendment of the law, which stipulate that, on a new basis, the price of electricity produced for a kilohour of electricity produced would be supplied only to the Slovenian shareholder, which is not yet stipulated by the contract. This means that Slovenia is giving up the means of decommissioning in the name of the Croatian cooperative of the energy supplied. The proposed Article 1 completely amends Article 4 of the Basic Law so that the foundation for the creation of funds is the price of electricity for a kilohour of electricity produced in a nuclear power plant supplied only to a Slovenian shareholder. We are also opposed to the proposed solutions in Article 3, which refer to a non-ratified contract and to the lack of clarity and solutions regarding the debtors to the fund. We also consider as inconsistent the proposed solutions to Article 17 of the Treaty, which, in the second paragraph of this Article, provides that, as from the date of the entry into force of the Treaty, all the obligations of the nuclear power plant to the Fund shall cease. At the same time, the Fund would also be considered a fund under paragraph 3 of Article 11 of the Treaty. It is still unclear from the Government's proposal whether it intends to abolish the current fund or whether it will assume the tasks of the new specific fund, which are not yet legally defined and regulated. Because of the proposed amendments to the law, we will not support the proposed amendments to the Youth Party mentioned in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Comrade Potts or colleague Grošelj on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. As the last position, he will then present his colleague Ašić for liberal democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have, in assessing the situation and the reasons for amending the Law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the NEK, taken into account the fact that, at the present time, it is prudent to approach the proposed amendments to the law, given that the Law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal conditions related to the investment in the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and similar, taking into account the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a programme for the decommissioning of the Krk Power Plant in 1996 and concluded that every three to five years it is necessary to carry out a review of the programme with all necessary input data, taking into account the new knowledge and facts. This conclusion also leads us to conclude that there is no reservation that the additional provisions of the current law could not be proposed for the preparation of a new programme for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. The members of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee supported the proposed amendments, as these amendments also specify more precisely the resources from which funds are paid to the decommissioning fund, and the new deadline for the adoption of the amendment to the existing NEK decommissioning programme, and it is also important that the amendment also sets the status of the Fund in the implementation of the contract and the amount of the decommissioning amount. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, MEPs will also support the attached amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Ašić will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the law for several reasons. One reason is that the law follows agreements between the Ministry of Environment and Space and representatives of the Posav municipalities, the mayors, also municipal councillors and some Members, which we met several times several times during December until several days ago. It is part of an agreement to adopt this law before the conclusion on the ratification of the treaty begins. This is particularly important because some have been surprised or opposed to claim that this law should be followed by ratification, which in some ways would be normal, as it relates in part to a treaty that will be ratified if it is ratified. However, there is an agreement and there are requirements, in particular from those species that are also willing to submit a request for a preliminary referendum on the intended ratification if the conditions of these arrangements are not met. One of the arrangements is to amend or supplement the law on the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. It should be noted that this law solves two matters, one which should be adopted in this way and so on by amendments to the law already because of the fact that the decommissioning programme needs to be revised and that it is necessary to determine the legal person who is liable to pay and to provide funds to the fund, which is according to the new Eles Gen, since the Slovenian part of the business and also the capital has been transferred to management of this company. The second part, however, follows the commitments made in the contract and establishes the status of the decommissioning fund in the same content and with the same objectives and tasks in the future, when, as I said, it will be adopted and ratified and also implemented or implemented. For these reasons, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u121	Good. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. I will now give the floor to the Members and Members of Parliament. She's already been requested by the Minister of Mags. The digger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. In some introductory speeches, particularly in the first three, by Mr Visionak, Mr Sok and Mr Vnučec, there has been repeated debates or even an omen, why we are now adopting this law, but if an interstate treaty has not yet been ratified. Mr Ašić already answered the obvious, which said that this was an integral part of the agreement. However, I must say that it is very unseemly that such an observation is made by someone who has always participated in these meetings, in these meetings, in these arrangements, agreed to these arrangements, but now it says that this is something unacceptable, that it does not follow a logical order. That's true, but that's the result, I can say, of pressure or even blackmail. The second clue I'd really like to make, I think, should be answered, but it's the next one. This law was said to correct some of the weaknesses of the interstate treaty. It does not correct any weaknesses under the Interstate Treaty because the Interstate Treaty is not at all bad. This Act is an operational implementing act for the implementation of Article 11 of the Interstate Treaty and provides for exactly what the Treaty provides for, and the Treaty provides that both countries, each in their territory, shall form a decommissioning fund and shall also pay it. Both countries, if the contract is ratified on both sides, shall guarantee the obligations of the Fund with their national budget. This is a much greater guarantee, as is now lax, I can almost say, the HEP inequity, which will soon be reorganised in the future, so that something will be involved in financing the resolution of the low- and medium-level waste disposal problem. What is now in force in the existing Inter-Republic Agreement is nothing for Slovenia and, of course, this Inter-State Agreement guarantees the Croatian State budget for half of all costs. And that is a good solution.When there are indications that Croatia will form this fund in its territory, or perhaps it will not, as I have heard from one of these three introductory speeches, I must say that the treaty is very, very clearly foreseen: within 12 months of the entry into force of Croatia - the sea! - start paying into this fund. It also says that it must keep us informed of how much and where it has paid; if it does not, it is a breach of the interstate treaty. I do not rule out any breach because of the possible non-operationality of the contractual partner. This cannot be ruled out in advance. But it will certainly be a violation. In this case, the Treaty is very, very clear and very binding on the contractual partner, i.e. the Republic of Croatia. This is not a problem with us, however, because we have had this fund for decommissioning for many years. I must say that when I was still a Member and this fund was accepted, I also had doubts about it, and its establishment was very visionary. Right now, at this point in Europe, we are talking about a new directive that will only apply the formation of such funds as a European obligation in the Member States of Europe, and we already have this fund. The only thing we write in this law is that it exists and works further than that fund, which is also envisaged by the Interstate Treaty and must only be established by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My friend Kelemin asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! This bill is in fact, as has already been said today, brought to light more quickly, due to some special interests which the ministers said were coordinated by the local community and so on. That this is a very uncoordinated matter, today's debate on the Infrastructure Committee also shows. Whoever was present there could have found that the matter was relatively excruciating, not knowing what it was about. And also the fact that we are now, just before the present, before the vote, we get to the table of amendments with the recasts, and a whole team of lawyers, counselors must meet to find out what is legal and what is not and what we can propose and what is not. In fact, these decisions in the draft amendments of the law are sometimes childishly written, as if we were to negotiate some things in kindergarten, what we are not going to do and what we are not going to do and what is already written elsewhere, but because of a guardian, it is necessary to write two more times, so that no one would accidentally fall out of this agreement. In short, it's a very misplaced matter. Although I myself was not invited to the talks you mentioned, Mr Minister, in the context of Posavia, as a Posavia Member, you obviously do not need me, logically, because my vote does not decide on anything. Nevertheless, I am asking a number of questions about this proposal. If I comment, there you wrote that the funds are provided for every kilohour of supplied electricity to Eles Genu, who will now be following the new – of course it is necessary to tell Members because Members of Parliament do not know much about what is going on in this area - for example, some new company Eles Gen, who should be with Eles and so on, will now be with some "deal", I guess, moved to Krsko, which I welcome - so I hear if I misheard, I don't know - I welcome this because it will be close to us and we will get a job again and so on. In short, that's fine, but a lot of Members may not know who this Eles Gen is and so on. A lot of things are unclear, which some changes are proposed without all the precise explanations of consequences and more. In short, real anarchy and confusion on the whole front. Here you wrote that it will be delivered to Eles Genu and that this will actually be the difference between the production price or the price itself, between the nuclear power plant and the sales price at which Eles Gen will sell. I wonder if it is now 100% clear that Eles Gen will sell his electricity more expensive than his own price in the nuclear power plant itself. That's the question. Now I wonder if, then, if he has to sell it under price, I think in a certain period of time, I hope it will not always be, but given the pressure of the open market, we know that outside the electricity prices are significantly lower than we do today. Today, with this opening of the market, we have caused huge economic damage to Slovenia, Mr Minister. But you still insist on opening up the market and so on. If this happens further, we will not be from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, which is one of the extremely good energy production facilities, electricity production facilities that could bring Slovenia and its economy as such financial effects with a smart state policy, but it will not be if this market is as open as it is now expected, increasingly where cheap electricity pressure on our customers. In addition, I don't really know if Eles Gen is going to subtract a certain percentage, so that's 0.61 tolars, as far as you still think it's still enough, even though you don't have a program. You don't know how much money you need for decomposition today, and you don't know how much money you have to raise in 20 years or 23 years or how much time we have left. Now you say you will do this program and commit yourself to doing revisions or new programmes and so on. In short, let's just leave it. Today you don't know how much money you need and we don't know if 0.61 dollars per kilohour is enough. The whole kind of uncertainty, the ambiguity, and of course we'll take this clearly, and then we'll see what happens. If it's round, it'll be if it's a four-pointer. In short, I'm trying to get some things out of some of them, and I'm trying to keep them out of the loop, a lot of them, of course not, but I don't get them on the table, which is the responsibility of the proponents, so I'm not going to vote for such a squabble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Because we are dealing with the law of review in the re-trial process, we are now in the middle of a second hearing. As already mentioned, we have an amendment to Article 1 tabled by the LDS Group. Please, Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u126	I would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1. I feel obliged to say here that I would like to vote for this law in the belief that it is a good law. I have now looked at the genetics of the last paragraph of Article 1 and there are three changes. I admit I can't find myself anymore. The government has proposed such a solution, of course it is a key issue, it is who is the debtor and who will pay. It's about money, specifically for money. Government proposal: the debtor for the calculation and payment of funds under the first paragraph of this Article shall be a Slovenian shareholder. Today, on the basis of the debate on the Committee, we have an updated proposal for a law on the following: the debtor for the calculation and payment of funds under the first paragraph of this Article, which are paid monthly to the Fund, has been in force since the Law of Eles Gen d.o.o. And now there's an amendment that my colleague Anderlich signed. I'm sure in good faith it improves, but I'm sorry, look what this amendment says. The text of the amended second paragraph of Article 4 shall be replaced by the text "from 1.4.2003 onwards". But by the time it was written, it was already crossed out and it says 1.1.2004. But now I am concerned about the explanation, because it becomes - this is, you know, legal Latvian: as the second paragraph of Article 4 becomes an integral text of the law, it would be proposed to determine the start of the implementation of the ELES GEN d.o.o. obligation. from the date of application of this Act from a nomotechnical point of view. Please tell me what this means. From a nominal point of view. Please tell me what this means, from a nomo technical point of view, no, no, I'm not interested in nomotechnics, I'm interested in the actual aspect of why this change, why you didn't suggest it on the committee. This is a substantive change. That is why the committee should meet again. How can you write that this is not appropriate from a nomo technical point of view, this is a substantive change. This is a radically different change. In this way, laws must not be adopted. What does this amendment mean? Why didn't you propose to him on the board?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u127	We're here to explain things if that's possible. Please, Minister Mag. The digger can explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Podobnik, your representatives at the meeting of the parent committee could certainly explain how this amendment was done. The Committee has drafted a new amendment amending Article 1 on the basis of a legislative proposal. However, once before, the representative of the Law Office recalled that the word "since the entry into force of this law" meant from 1994 onwards, and therefore nomotechnically needed to be corrected with a fixed date from now on. That was her explanation. If I followed the debate on the committee, I could see that. That is why, together with the representatives of the LDS Club and the Law Service, we have found or found a new solution, which means a date from now on. This date is 1.1.2004 from now on. This is also proposed. This is due to the fact that Krško Nuclear Power Plant is already committed to paying this contribution to the decommissioning fund, it is currently being paid by the end of this year, because this has already been agreed upon in the conclusion of the entire electricity sales contracts. As of 1.1.2004, the regime is provided for under this law amending the law on the decommissioning fund. Thus, it is not a matter of substantive correction, at least in this case not of this date, but of nomotechnics.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u129	The committee met this morning. All colleagues and colleagues who are not familiar with the process and the agreement would like to ask everyone who can explain the quality of the decision to make them and then patiently decide on the proposal. Comrade Janc has the floor, followed by Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I've spoken to you before, but you haven't noticed me. So he would return to the full consideration of the law. My view is that it is almost impossible to deal with all three documents, such as the Decommissioning Fund Act, the Radiation and Nuclear Security Act and the Interstate Treaty, separately, but it is a package that intertwines, and it is a search for a solution that would make the final document, such as the Interstate Treaty, somewhat more gastrointestinal. All the findings that have been at the expense of this interstate contract since 2001 when the initialling of the interstate treaty has occurred remain virtually the same as they were at the time. The original sin is what the negotiating group has found in relation to some of the solutions that have already been discussed in the previous period, among some other governments, other ministers, such as the so-called Minister of Secretary, Minister Draganja, and finally Minister Kopač, who signed this treaty. It is important to know that this law, which we are currently discussing, is only a way out of which to find more appropriate solutions under Article 11 of the Treaty, and how to address the issue of fund-raising, financing and the search for a permanent landfill of low, medium and also highly radioactive waste and the way in which funds are collected. I, of course, am not satisfied with the contract personally, and I do not support it. At this point, however, I am facing the fact that I have to support this law, because this law, in at least one part, mitigates the solutions provided for in Article 11 of the Treaty. Perhaps it would have been much better to seek these solutions if the same provisions as those laid down in Articles 1, 2 and 3 of this Act had been in the Interstate Treaty, and if we had at that time sought such solutions, when we had also pointed out to the Committee on Foreign Policy, to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, even at informal meetings held at the nuclear power plant, then ratification would have been implemented long ago, the agreement would have been concluded long ago. It seems to me that a lot of bitterness would be saved at the expense of individual actors in this story. The amendment of the LDS Group of Members referred to by Mr Janez Podobnik. Of course, I didn't exactly read the explanation. Now I'm a little more specific. I also agree that this is not a matter of nomotechnics. It is a matter of substance, from which time it will be and who is liable to contribute to the fund. However, if this date had arisen, it had been warned whether such a dictatorship had arisen, that the representative of the legal and legislative service had been warned and a proposal of this amendment had also emerged. But why is the date 1.1.2004, but it has already been explained, I think that the Minister in the part that by then is a liability to the nuclear power plant, and since 1.1.2004 Eles Gen, who takes over electricity and will pay for the fund. So much for this marriage. I'll support the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u131	Comrade Squirrel, you wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u132	In short, I would like to replicate the performance of Minister and Mr Janc. I believe that this is not a good way to adopt laws with such important consequences. The same amendment should, in my opinion, already be included in the amendment on the committee itself. That is how I now understood the Minister's explanation. But, colleagues and colleagues, this is not in the substantive sense a nomotechnical amendment. I'm sorry, I'm staying a little cautious in my confidence. The moon can be terribly important. I've got a whole bunch of paperwork to say something strong at the expense of these months that have been going on for months and years. That's why I don't believe every amendment any more. I don't believe him, and that's it. That's why I'm so upset with the way the amendments are being tabled. That's why it's the committee, not that someone's flying around somewhere saying they're wrong, but now it's a nomo technical aspect. Five years from now, the Commission of Inquiry will find out why an amendment has been tabled from a nomo technical point of view. I don't believe it anymore. I don't believe it anymore. I will, however, understand this explanation, if we were to do the right thing, the working body should meet again on such a change and explain all the backgrounds of these matters. I have too many papers and arguments that I am a great skeptic about the correctness of business in recent years. We cover our sins back. There are many sins. That's why we're so nervous.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u133	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u134	Regrettably, we are on the path that we have seen several times that it is not the best and that we should first adopt the law on ratification and then, as a result, amend those laws that would be urgently adopted. But we've already explained why. It is also a type of mistrust that Mr. Podobnik has just spoken by the Serbian mayors and the conclusions of the Krko municipal council that, as we have agreed, we must first change these laws before we can join the ratification. And now the second part of the answer, which has not been fully explained to Mr Podobnik, is that we on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee voted in favour of all the amendments and concluded the second reading. Then the representative of our Law Service found that we had not yet something, but we had a closed vote, and I would have understood then that this amendment would be tabled in such a way that it is in the third reading under the urgent procedure. Mr Podobnik may also ask three of his Members who were present at the Committee's meeting for clarification. At that time, of course, we all understood that. There is no reason for mistrust, but this happens when it goes a little against logic and time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u135	Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I owe an answer to the Minister, who has used the word 'unseemly' and has referred to my performance on the order of treatment of laws. He said that the requirement of the Posav mayors, and also the agreement established in this group, was to follow this order. Look, it's a package, and the problem is that the ministry didn't stick to the deal either, so I put it on the line. Today, when we received the government's conclusions, or already yesterday and actually today, we saw them depart from the agreed text, which was formed on Sunday evening. That is why it can also be called impropriety, because if we agree on something on the text of the Ministry of the Environment and then we all go home the next day and we get a different text that re-infuses us with a certain measure of mistrust, the question is, of course, whether we can still call it a package or not and whether there is even a possibility that this treaty will be ratified. Even now, as I have been informed, there is a correspondence meeting of the congregation council of Krško, as to whether it is the text or whether it is under some legal interpretation that it is the same text, whether to believe it or not. In short, when we talk about what we have agreed on, we must ask ourselves whether we respect the agreement, and we must sometimes look in the mirror. Tosem pointed out mainly because it is still uncertain, when this law is passed, whether a request for a referendum will be filed, that is still uncertain. I think it would only be worth pointing out then also to the questionable order, although once again I stress that this is true that this has been agreed upon, it is true. However, I have warned about this, mainly because it is questionable the third point or third paragraph of this package, which is at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u137	Okay, now colleague Vizjak has gone over the subject itself. Look, the National Assembly is sovereign and can also decide on a change of treatment if there was a majority and a reason. For the time being, we are considering this law, and unless there are any other proposals, we will also decide on this law. Before that, the New Slovenia Group requested a 20-minute recess and I will also order it before the first vote, this is the amendment tabled by colleague Anderlič on behalf of the LDS Group on Article 1. I'm asking, does anyone want a word before that? If not, I will understand that this concludes the debate on the amendment tabled in Article 1. There were a few words about the possibility of a committee meeting, which the president did not say, and there is no formal proposal. I therefore understand that we have exhausted the debate on the first amendment to Article 1, to allocate 20 minutes of rest at the request of the New Slovenia Group of Members and that the National Assembly will continue its decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 1 of the Act at 3.25 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u138	It's 3:00.26. The National Assembly will continue its work. We are in the middle of a second reading of the law amending the law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from this power plant. I'm asking all parliamentary groups to come to the hall. The New Slovenia delegation also requested a 20-minute recess. Can I once again ask the New Slovenia Group, which requested a recess to come to the hall and explain its views if it so wishes. Dr. Bajuk's friend is here. You want Dr. Bayuk's word? My friend Sok. I'll wait a minute, but please have Comrade Sok come to the hall. My friend Sok is here. Good. Let me remind the National Assembly that we have remained ahead of the decision on the amendment to Article 1. It was filed by the House of Members of Liberal Democracy. New Slovenia requested 20 minutes of rest. Comrade Sok wants to explain his point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Thank you for allowing us this 20-minute recess so we can consult. Although we find it hard to believe that what is in this law on the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste will actually be realized and that the programme will come to pass, because this depends on the co-contractor, according to the Republic of Croatia, we will support this law and, of course, we also expect the government to do what it promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u140	Colleagues and colleagues, could I have your attention, please? We'll come to a decision. We have the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to supplement Article 1. We'll decide on him, please. I'm putting him to the vote. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 59 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 48 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the seven.]] This amendment has been adopted. That is how we ended up deciding on the amendments tabled. We're moving to third reading. In the second reading, we adopted the amendment to Article 1. Would qualified applicants like to submit a new supplement? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can go to the debate on individual amendments and articles. It's all about the bill. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Does anyone have an objection to the consistency of the text? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There's 63 in attendance. 53 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] The law has been passed. That's my conclusion. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE PROTECTION LAW BEFORE IONIZING SEVENS AND NUCLEAR SECURITY. This law will also be dealt with by emergency procedure. He was put into the procedure by the government. Does the Minister want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'll be as brief as this bill. We foresee that we will put into place in our domestic legislation the deadlines provided for only by the draft directive of the European Union, even now, at the time of the adoption of the ratification of the Interstate Treaty. However, the draft European Directive on the management of low and medium-radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuels provides that Member States, which is also expected to have Slovenia, have a specific location for low- and medium-radioactive wastes by 2008. This should be an operational warehouse in 2013. This is what the draft directive now says. It is possible theoretically, however, that the directive also allows, or draft directive, for these nuclear wastes to be exported in order to find a solution outside the country's borders. However, according to the experience elsewhere across Europe for these low- and medium-radioactive wastes, these are the least dangerous - the practice in Europe is that each Member State manages it at home, in a warehouse. However, the first year of the Government's preparation of a national programme for the management of radioactive waste by the end of 2004 is due to the fact that in the former law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety adopted last year, this programme for the management of radioactive waste is one chapter of the national environmental protection programme. Since these interviews with Posavia representatives have been a matter of fear, if you will accept the environmental protection programme for a long time, you can also in 2005, 2006, and if you do so, it will no longer be realistic to talk about the selection of the site in 2008 - because the procedures are going on - then we have foreseen the government's commitment to bring this part of the environmental protection programme, which is called the national programme for the management of radioactive waste, into Parliament by the end of next year. If she wants to bring this to the hearing, of course, it will have to be a solution that is expected to be coordinated with the contractual partner in the event of the ratification of the Interstate Treaty. This is, of course, an additional guarantee, an additional time pressure for the adoption of this programme in cooperation with the Republic of Croatia within the time limits set out in the Interstate Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? My friend Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. At today's meeting, the Infrastructure Committee discussed a proposal for a law amending the law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety. The Legislative and Legal Service gave a written opinion highlighting some of the shortcomings of the proposed law. Article 1 is intended to define the purpose of the submission of a national programme of the National Assembly, which is not legal matter. The basic function of the legal norm is to prohibit or command, and the importance of defining time limits in this provision is therefore unclear. With regard to the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, it recalls the provision of Article 98 of the Law on the protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, where the first paragraph provides that the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel is part of the national environmental protection programme under environmental protection rules. With regard to the provision of the second paragraph of Article 1 from a legal and legal point of view, it recalls the principles that, in the case of non-compliance with the individual provisions of the law, the later law derogates from the former and the more special general and provisions of Articles 8 and 153 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, according to which the laws and other provisions must be applied directly in accordance with the international treaties which oblige Slovenia and the ratified and published international treaties. In this regard, it also recalls Article 87 of the Law on Foreign Affairs, which provides for an arrangement for the non-compliance of an international treaty with domestic law, under which the decision of the competent authority referred to in paragraph 1 shall be governed by an international treaty. It also points to the Government's alternative obligation to withdraw from the contract in which the deadlines derogate from the deadlines set out in the first sentence. The Law on Foreign Affairs in respect of International Treaties does not know the term of withdrawal from the Treaty, but merely the withdrawal of an international treaty, which would suggest that the proposed text should also be taken into account. Since the bill does not contain an amendment, but merely a supplement, the title of the law should be amended accordingly. The Infrastructural Committee held a debate and, in the light of the legislative and legal comments, prepared its amendment to Article 1 and amended Article 1 in its entirety. The Committee has also drafted an amendment to the title of the law and has thus drawn up a proposal for a law to deal with. I therefore propose that the law, together with the amendments proposed by the Committee, be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. They will now follow the views of the Group of Members, first on behalf of the SDS Mag Group. A viscous, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can see that the leader of the biggest party is escorting me here by paying, I don't know who to be in the government or be in the opposition. The Social Democratic Party will support this law. Why? In view of the fact that all opponents, as well as experts, have pointed out the weaknesses of this Treaty, they have pointed out that the inadequacy of the storage of radioactive waste is one of the key weaknesses of this inter-State contract. And they were right because the sixth paragraph of Article 10 says that the location of the Krško nuclear power plant can be used to temporarily store radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel for the rest of their lives. Moreover, the report on the negotiation of the Interstate Treaty at point 5 says that the location of the Krško nuclear power plant will be used for the temporary storage of low- and medium-radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel until the end of the life of the power plant. However, both sides will seek a common solution for safe, cost-effective, prudent disposal. If they do not find a common solution, by 2025 at the latest they will take over each of the wastes by half by then and so on. The Treaty is already prepared and initialled in this spirit, as this is the basis for the summaries in the negotiating report. This law, the Slovenian law regulates this matter in such a way that the Slovenian party will have to take this burden on itself, even in accordance with the draft directive, in order to somehow approve the location by 2008 and also to regulate the warehouse's operating permit by 2013 at the latest by 2013. Look what that means. The Croatian parties do not need to take care of these matters until 2023, or they must try to find a solution, but if they do not find a solution, only after 2025 they will take out half of the waste and we will have to build this landfill under our law and also release it into operation by 2013. We are thus burdened by Croatia's responsibilities in the search for solutions. We will, of course, charge this to Slovenian taxpayers. This is a weakness of this proposal, but I think it is the responsibility of the Ministry that it has only taken over the resolution of this issue, which has been poorly resolved in the Treaty. However, I believe that the draft directive has also helped, because this will be a fact, and the ministry is likely to have followed this issue. Because of the magnetogram and possible subsequent misunderstandings, I would like to ask and ask the Minister for Environment and Space here also clearly, because we have somehow resolved this, but this text does not resolve what a dictatorship means that the location of the landfill of low and medium-range radioactive waste will be approved by 2008 at the latest. The law in the area of space regulation does not know the diction that a location has been approved. Does that mean we're going to adopt a landfill location plan, or does that mean anything else? I ask for a clear answer, because this response will sometimes be very helpful when we are in 2008, if we experience this, and we will then see whether the location plan will be adopted by this date or not. The purpose of this law is to set clearer deadlines for the storage of radioactive waste, which we welcome in the Social Democratic Party, so we will support. Of course, the taste remains bitter, for we will do so with our money, our taxpayer money. The Croatian side is, of course, committed to finding a solution, but if it does not find it, it cannot be a reason for some consistency. We will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Malovra, on the position of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. The Slovenian People's Party has been keeping abreast of the negotiations now in Posavje, about the events that took place around the nuclear power plant, because the previous law we passed, as well as this law, is somehow going hand in hand. We are pleased that it is somehow agreed, given the law on environmental protection, that we must adopt a national programme and that deadlines are agreed. On the other hand, it is also clarified that, in view of the non-compliance with international rules, in view of the non-compliance with the law on external matters which lays down arrangements for the non-compliance of an international treaty with domestic law with the application of an international treaty here. This has also been clearly identified on the Infrastructure Committee today as being the subject of an international treaty. As I said, we are also pleased that, once definitively, the deadlines are also set for the adoption of the national programme by the end of 2004 at the latest, and that what Comrade Vizjak has just said is that by 2008 it must somehow determine where the landfill should be, whether it is within the country or also outside, as the Minister has previously said, and that, if it is within the country, it must be authorised to operate by 2013 at the latest. I think that some things are more clearly defined, so that we will also support the law and this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group has been monitoring all the events surrounding the debate on this law, particularly the interviews with the local community. I must say that we were pleased that, despite the fact that everything was not resolved as much as we would like the individual partners to do in these talks, we were pleased to accept the conclusion that in the end there was only a negotiated solution between the local community and the ministry. Our Group of Members will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since all three laws are somehow substantively connected, I have already talked about this at the previous point, at least in part. I have warned and reiterate that the location of the nuclear waste dump will be the hardest nut in this whole story. In fact, when we accept this today, we are already deciding in some way that Slovenia will be, and I am sure of that, that it must ensure the storage of the entire amount of nuclear waste and that it will also have to take care of decommissioning. It is difficult to say that a location will be provided by 2008, but we do not know at this time whether this ratification of the agreement will actually take effect or whether Croatia will actually assume its half of the obligation. I remember how violent the opposition was years ago when an attempt was made to eventually determine the location for the landfill of nuclear waste in Slovenia. After all, in this country we can hardly set up even a common incinerator in any place for settlement and other reasons. But if we can only get to a location, this matter will be very, very expensive. In order not to repeat what others have already said, I would point to just one record that the government is offering to the national assembly because of the magnetogram, and perhaps in eight years, someone will read it. The government says the bill will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. Of course it's over your thumb. From 1994 to this day, it is said that around 20 billion Slovenian Tolars have been raised in the Decommissioning Fund and to solve this problem. So if we calculate that the nuclear power plant will be operational by 2023, 21 years from now, we can collect an additional 55 billion, which is about 75 to 80 billion Slovenian tolars. I read somewhere that this landfill and this decomposition would cost at least 150 to 200 billion. Thus, the government is already conscious of us today, I would say, in mind, without any calculations and without a backup scenario, what will happen if this location is not able to be determined, because this possibility should also be foreseen by the National Assembly today with complete numbers and data on what will happen if Slovenia has to ensure that its or all of the nuclear waste is exported from the country. Otherwise, this problem will remain with the congregation of Krško, and I believe that today, when we accept it so quickly, under urgent procedure, without any real argument that they can rightly be very concerned. We will support this law, and ratifications, I say, will not be supported by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u152	He's a colleague of grandkids.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are also amending this law in particular because of the poor and inconsistent contract between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investments in, the use of, and decommissioning of, the nuclear power plant, including the management of all radioactive wastes, within one year of the entry into force of the contract, to be established by a professional organisation which, within two months of the entry into force of the contract, will be designated by the State Party, which will be later confirmed by the Interstate Commission. The contract is bad and the deadline for adoption of this programme is not foreseen, since according to the Government, it has been written on a voluntary basis and a serious approach by the signatory countries. It is unprofessional, but at least irresponsible and unacceptable, to resolve the country's nuclear security on the basis of well-being. The Treaty only provided that, within two years of the end of the operation of the nuclear power plant, half of the nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel would be physically taken over if they failed to agree on a common solution to the disposal of waste and spent nuclear fuel until the end of operation. This is contrary to the working draft directive on the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, which provides that Member States of the European Union will have to provide for a location in their programmes for the deployment of radioactive waste storage and spent nuclear fuel no later than 2008 or an export contract for the export of waste by the end of this year, the operation of a landfill of radioactive waste no later than 2003 or the export of waste in 2013, pardon, and the contract on the export of waste in this year and the operation of landfills for spent nuclear fuel in 2018 and the provision of exports in this year. Because of the bad contract, it is therefore entirely likely that the non-admission of the decommissioning programme would put Slovenia in a situation of breach of the provisions of that Directive. Since the government has failed to enter into a contract, it is now seeking to correct this by amending this law, as it itself doubts the adoption of the decommissioning programme provided for in Article 10 of the Interstate Treaty. This means, of course, that all the burdens of implementing the programme in this case will come to the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we will not support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u154	My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u155	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. In the Socialist Group of Members, we have followed the aspirations of the drafter of the law to include the European directive in our legal order and thus satisfy all those needs that address the issue of the background of low- and medium-level radioactive waste. Therefore, we have also supported this by preparing a complement to the national environmental protection programme. To the proposed amendment or amendment, we note that the national programme will be ready by 2004. I also understand the year 2008 that all the technical documentation for the landfill will be prepared and that the year 2013 will be the year that the landfill will then also be authorised to operate until that time. As I mentioned in the introduction, we will also fully support both amendments, one relating to the Supplement, and this article 141. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u156	Also a colleague of Ašiš for the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u158	Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u159	This law also follows, in fact, the arrangements made in recent months with regard to the preparation for ratification of the said Interstate Treaty, which is the subject of the agenda immediately for this point. Of course, this law and the amendment or amendment of the law must be understood from several perspectives. Even from the fact that the nuclear power plant has long existed in Slovenia, we do not even know if we will have a landfill in Slovenia for the permanent disposal of nuclear waste or not and when we will have it. At the same time, it removes concerns in some way or doubts about them, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u160	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u161	that all of this will be burdened with the country of Slovenia. [[...]] This amendment thus lays down deadlines at least as long as the future directive of the European Union provides for us to ensure a landfill, its usable permit or what does not appear here. If we do not do so within this period, we will have to prove the aliphasis to conclude another international treaty on the export of these wastes somewhere outside Slovenia if we do not have such a landfill at home. This is in a sense the content of the directive already mentioned so many times. Of course, a lot of controversy, or a lot of discussions of previous ones, has also required a determination whether we should cancel a unilateral international treaty and on the basis of legal opinions, opinions of Slovenian legal experts, then the proposal is as set out in the amendment that, in the event of non-compliance by one of the Parties with the implementation of an international treaty - or, in particular, for the Republic of Croatia - begins Slovenia with the procedure to terminate this treaty, of course, with all the conventions that follow. I think that the text, as is now proposed, has also sufficiently ensured the local community that Slovenia will, of course, take care of the full implementation of the programme for the collection and disposal of radioactive waste in any case: whether together with the contractual partner or independently if this contract is cancelled if this is not implemented. For all this, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The Minister would like to answer the question of the Magi. A visionary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Mr Vizjak asked me what it meant to approve the location of the permanent landfill. In my understanding and following the current legal decree of the law on the regulation of space, it is, I understand, the adoption of a local plan. That's for a magnetogram because he wanted to. But if I may, I'll be very brief, and that's all. Neither this law nor the Interstate Treaty is a threat that Slovenia itself should finance a permanent landfill of low- and medium-level radioactive waste. If a directive to Euroatom, which we are talking about all the time and which says that 2008 should have a location, is to be adopted, then by means of acts of the Slovenian authorities, i.e. by law or by law, the directive is already directly applicable, we will have to prohibit temporary storage at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and this will, of course, have to be physically brought out much earlier than in 2023. If the contract had been maintained by then, of course, the business cost of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant was to be borne by both sides. That's why I don't see any fear that we should be financing this on our own. However, the Republic of Croatia would not renew its State guarantee once in the future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u164	We don't have any amendments tabled in the second reading, so we don't start the third. We are moving on to a decision on the full text. I am asking if anyone else wants a word, otherwise we will vote. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote! Peace in the hall! Present 57, 54 for and 2 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - discussion on the ratification of the international treaty. Comrade Kacin, chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to propose, on a procedural basis, that the meeting at this point should be suspended so that the Committee on Foreign Policy could meet and consider the text of the ratification law to which Members wish to table an amendment. Since the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to meet when the Assembly meets, I ask you to suspend, members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy or alternate members and members who will replace those who are officially absent, and I invite you to the meeting, which would start in a large lounge in ten minutes if you would stop the meeting now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u166	Mr President of the Committee has put forward a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting in order to meet the competent homework body. As he has informed us, an amendment has been tabled which the Committee would like to express. Does anyone object to us taking a recess for the Foreign Policy Committee? [[Nobody.]] I will put to the vote a procedural proposal for the State assembly to order the Committee to meet and to continue its decision after the end of work. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u167	I'd like to ask because we haven't received any of the amendments that Kacin's colleague is talking about. I don't know if he can explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u168	Please, chairman of the committee, colleague Kacin, can you explain what amendment this is? I suggest we clear up our questions here so it'll be easier for us to make decisions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u169	Mr President, there would be no problem. We can start the agenda and discuss the content, and when we get there, we stop the meeting. But I understood - given that the colleague who asks is from a party that has stood up for this amendment - that they are aware of it. If not, please let those who propose this amendment say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u170	Look, we have two options. One is to stop the session now, the other to stop it at the point when the State Assembly has thus concluded after the debate has begun. I think it makes sense for the Committee to take a position, but it is not necessary. I will put a procedural proposal before the National Assembly to suspend the work of the Foreign Policy Committee. The Secretary-General advises me to put this to a vote when we reach the point in the debate. Can we then, the chairman of the committee, start the meeting and stop it if that is the opinion of the National Assembly, after the National Assembly believes that a committee should meet for this? Then I suggest we start the agenda. Okay. I'm glad we agreed on a way to work. We are therefore at the point of the agenda concerning the ratification of the Treaty. I expect Minister Kopac to justify the government's proposal to adopt a law on ratification. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u171	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Although the bill on ratification on behalf of the government is proposed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, since I do not see it in the vicinity right now, I will present the government's position. Ratification or the Interstate Treaty itself, as you probably know, has been preparing for a very long time. The negotiations have been ongoing since 1998, when the National Assembly considered and adopted negotiating points and until December 2001, when the Treaty was formally signed. This Treaty lays down a series of things which until the date of signature of the contract were not specified on the basis of the Interrepublic Agreement of the 1970s. At that time both countries, the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, wanted to build a nuclear power plant, one in Krske and the other on Prevlaka near Zagreb, and they went - in today's language they would call it - to "Joint Venture" into a joint investment first of all of this power plant in Krske, and then the other one would follow. This was built, and the other was never built, although the project documentation was actually being prepared for it, but then different views of the Parliament at the time as to whether or not nuclear energy is acceptable or acceptable were prompted by the decision of the Slovenian Assembly to decide first on a moratorium on the construction of nuclear power plants and then the Yugoslav assembly. This was then the case in the territory of the entire former common country. There have been a number of complications in this joint life at the nuclear power plant. Electricity was not regularly paid by one party, nor was it regularly paid by the other party. It was sometimes difficult to come to solutions or decisions in joint management. Well, and all of this resulted in the Slovenian government taking a decision in 1998 that interrupted the supply of electricity to neighbouring Croatia. But I think that -- at least as far as I've read the documentation back -- it's been a month or so, or I can say a long-term argument about whether they're going to invest in new pairers or not. The evaporators, however, constituted an essential requirement for safety of operation. Well, then it had to be resolved before or if the relationship was not properly resolved, and now this new complication has to be settled. And in this interstate contract, it was trying to settle. In what way? Just a few essential elements. First, all liabilities and claims shall be settled in return. Slovenia's obligations in this case are considerable, mainly due to the lack of electricity since 1998 or until the end of June when this contract is to enter into force. Then there's a number of other obligations. We also had a rather strange arrangement whereby the nuke paid for construction loans for the needs of the Slovenian side, while in Croatia this obligation was borne or assumed by the public company HEP. Thus, the price for electricity supplied to Slovenia was one and for electricity supplied to Croatia was the other. Therefore, separate treatments or separate financial statements for a nuclear power plant were also considered, and there was also a brief type of other wonders created by the so-called historical circumstances. There was no dispute resolution either. That is why there has also been such a very conflicting situation with disconnection. Disputes are supposed to be resolved by arbitration with the former federal institution in Belgrade, which, of course, no longer exists for a long time. That is why a novel, some corrections to this - formerly interrepublic, now interstate - must have been made. The Interstate Treaty provides that participants from Slovenia and Croatia have a 50:50 ratio and operate a nuclear power plant in Krske. This is done in a way that is managed by a nuclear power plant, a two-member administration in which the President of the Administration is the one proposed by the Slovenian side. Although the Supervisory Board is composed of a parity, it is chaired by a representative proposed by the Croatian side, but no one in the Supervisory Board has the right to vote On the Board, the President of the Administration, i.e. the one appointed, proposes the Slovenian side, the right to vote, in three cases. The most important of these three cases is: for all issues relating to safety of operation. This is practically everything, and if I illustrate it from past events, for example, the decision to purchase pairers is certainly a decision that could be characterized as a decision on safety of operation. Such a decision could therefore be taken after the new President of the Administration, proposed by the Slovenian side. The contract regulates how disputes are resolved; the contract regulates how a bank guarantee is to be opened for the regular payment of the electricity supplied; the contract regulates how each of the two Parties must form its own decommissioning fund, pay in it, and how each of the parties also assumes the State guarantee to pay the liabilities of the fund. Of course, the Republic of Croatia has already done so by means of its law on the ratification of this Treaty on 3 July last year. In addition, the Treaty provides that - something that has already been said in the discussion on the previous two laws - a decommissioning programme and a programme for the disposal of low- and medium-radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel should be adopted within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act or this Treaty. It provides that a professional organisation should be appointed to prepare this within 60 days of the entry into force of this Act. Indeed, the seventh paragraph of Article 10 of this Treaty provides that if there is no common solution to the disposal of low- and medium-radioactive waste, then within two years after the end of operation, each Party shall physically take over half of the nuclear waste. However, I stress this only applies if there is no common solution. The common solution is welcome, desirable, so to speak, envisaged, and in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty is not necessary. And there is no advance guarantee in the programme to be considered and adopted within 12 months of its entry into force that a common solution will be envisaged. Although it seems to me that economically speaking, it is most appropriate for such a common solution to occur. The Treaty also provides for possibilities, as I have already mentioned, for the resolution of disputes [[So far, there has practically been no judge.]] . The Treaty also provides for a decommissioning procedure; this is referred to in Article 13 of the Treaty and provides that it is also the power, through the acts of the Slovenian authorities of the co-investor, to decommission it if the public interest so requires for nuclear safety. I understand that the provisions of the directive to the Euroats, which speak of standards relating to the permanent disposal of low- and medium-level radioactive wastes, could certainly represent a situation that could be said to constitute, in an extreme case, a failure to implement the contract or a poor implementation of the treaty, so that they can also give rise to such a drastic act. The government is interested in resolving the conflicts behind us and in settling a common life for the future. We're pretty sure that's what the contract requires. Well, there is always the possibility that the contractual partner will not act in the spirit of good contractual will, and I think that the Slovenian legal order knows the satisfaction of acting in such cases. I am convinced, however, that the Republic of Croatia will want to participate constructively in the management of this facility and, after all, respect all nuclear safety or safety standards, as it has, at last, submitted an application for membership in the European Union a day ago, and certainly such a country has no particular intention of violating the provisions or standards provided for in the European acquis. Indeed, the government was more interested in buying out Croatian co-ownership in the negotiations at the time of the conclusion of this Interstate Treaty. This option is still alive. On Monday, the government authorised yesterday's written meeting of the Minister responsible for the environment, space and energy, or the Ministry, to draw up a negotiating ground for opening negotiations on the redemption of Croatia's co-ownership stake within one month of the entry into force of this Interstate Treaty, if any. This, of course, we will do, what will be the outcome of the negotiations and how long they will last and whether they will succeed, is not possible to predict in advance. The proposal for a law on the ratification of this Interstate Treaty has been considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy some eight months ago and there has been a change in that period. This amendment represents a publication, a formal publication of the draft directive to the Eurostat, about which there has been a lot of talk today, which is why this new fact, which is now only four months old, took place in November last year; in short, this new fact represents, as I understood earlier the words of the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, a reason for reflection on the possible amendment to this bill. Such an amendment is, of course, acceptable if it does not constitute a direct intervention in the text of the Interstate Treaty and, of course, the Government is prepared to support it as I have mentioned. Indeed, the Interstate Treaty was negotiated at approximately the same time as the border agreement. The agreements are not directly related to each other. However, positive solutions on the one hand certainly had an impact on the positive resolution of the provisions on the other hand. Both agreements were initialled. The one we are now talking about has also been signed and ratified on one side. I hope that it will also be ratified today on the other hand and that then the other agreement, which has remained only in the initialisation phase, will be signed and ratified on both sides as soon as possible. By arranging these open, painful relations with the neighbouring friendly Republic of Croatia, and in a quality way that will enable constructive co-existence, the common benefits of this joint project, called the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? Comrade Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u173	Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the report on the draft law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in, exploitation and degradation of, and the joint statement on the signing of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investment in, exploitation and degradation of, the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. At its 27th extraordinary meeting, held on 7 June 2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, exploitation and decommissioning of the Nuclear Power Plant Krška and the joint statements on the signing of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, exploitation and degradation of the Nuclear Power Plant Krška. The title is terribly long, terribly complicated. The conclusions we have adopted are not so complicated. At the end of the debate, the Committee adopted the following decision by 9 votes to one and three with three abstentions: "The Committee agreed with the bill and therefore proposed that the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider the proposal at its meeting and adopt it. The rapporteur for the National Assembly will be Chair of the Committee Jelko Kacin." The Committee also voted on the proposal for an additional decision to ratify the law only in autumn. The Committee, with seven votes against and none taken for a decision, but the autumn is long past, we are now in the middle of winter and many new circumstances have arisen. One of these is the upcoming Directive of the European Union. It would therefore be appropriate to include in the law on ratification the possibility that the Directive would have any direct impact on the circumstances of the implementation of this Agreement. That is why I have cut my report extremely short. And as I said before, there is a desire for this law to be supplemented by an amendment, and this can only be done at a meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee and a new report needs to be adapted. I therefore propose that, at this time, Mr President, the meeting be suspended, that we continue with the Foreign Policy Committee, that the Members who have decided to do so should submit an amendment and that such an amended ratification law should be considered below and reported on. The decision is in the hands of colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u174	All right, we will implement the third paragraph of Article 73 when the National Assembly decides whether the opinion of the working body should be obtained in this case, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy proposes. I ask colleagues and colleagues to come to the Chamber, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal to meet the mother labour force, this is the Foreign Policy Committee. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall. I therefore propose to the vote that the National Assembly suspend the work to meet the competent labour force, this is the Committee on Foreign Policy. We're voting. We're gonna have to make one more decision. May I have your attention in the hall, please? There are plenty of colleagues and colleagues in the hall. I will put this proposal to the vote again. I ask those of you who are in the lobby to join us. The National Assembly therefore decides on the proposal to suspend the work so that the Foreign Policy Committee can meet. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 48 present. 43 for, 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I therefore impose the vacation necessary for the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy. However, I ask the President to inform me as soon as possible when the National Assembly can continue its work. Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u175	I estimate that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u176	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u177	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm guessing we don't need more than a good half an hour for this session. The Committee will make every effort to prepare a report on the updated text of the law on ratification as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u178	I will, therefore, inform the National Assembly at 5 p.m. of the continuation of the meeting. Until then, I'm hanging up. There's a soiree in the big salon.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u179	Colleagues and colleagues, we'll resume the session in three minutes. The Committee on Foreign Policy has concluded its work. The procedural conditions for the continuation of the meeting of the national assembly shall be met. So, at 5:30, we resume our session. I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the National Assembly. Let me explain that the representatives of the parliamentary groups will first be given the floor, and then we will move on to a full decision on the law. Until then, I believe there will be a report on the benches, so we will have a document before us on which the National Assembly will decide. Please, if you come to the hall, we won't be able to get to the vote yet. Look, after the end of this point, we will suspend the work of the National Assembly for tonight, so that the Constitutional Commission can meet and prepare a proposal for a constitutional law to decide this week. I propose that we continue to work to hear the oral explanation of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, to hear representatives of the groups of Members and to receive a written report before the decision is taken, so that the State Assembly can decide in a qualified manner. Comrade Kacin, chairman of the committee, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the 50th urgent meeting of the Committee's amendment to the new Article 2a of the text of the Law on Ratification, the following Article is added: 'If, after ratification of this Treaty, the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, is obliged to take responsibility for the completion of the deadlines for the final regulation of the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, the Slovenian part of the Interstate Commission referred to in Article 18 of this Treaty in the confirmation of the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel or its occasional revision, as provided for in Article 10(3) of the Treaty, which will be determined by the act of the European Union." Eighteen members and members of the Foreign Policy Committee voted in favour, none against. After that, we were able to conclude that the new Article 2a was adopted. We have thus concluded the second reading of the draft law on the home labour body. The amendment of the Committee will be included in the amended bill, which will be an integral part of the additional report of the Committee and will be received on the bench within 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u181	Thank you for the report, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First he'll get the word, fellow mags. Visak for the Social Democratic Party Group and then colleague Podobnik for the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party, we have been in the Social Democratic Party from the very beginning when the text of the Interstate Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations related to the investment in and exploitation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant has come and highlighted the weaknesses and shortcomings of this Treaty. At the same time, we have also made it clear that these issues need to be settled between the two countries, and we have also said that the negotiations are poorly negotiated. At this time until today, it is also increasingly clear what the main interest of negotiators was. This interest was that things should first and foremost be handled backwards. This is said to cover these various financial stories of disconnects, debts, unresolved matters somehow, under some roof, and of course to somehow draw things forward. I think that the key weakness of this agreement is precisely in the latter, so to speak, how to proceed. I would also like to point out that today the question remains also what is behind, since you need to know that it provides for an interstate contract that Croatia is starting to receive electricity from 1.7.2002. We now know that we are already strong in 2003, so the financial part of this Treaty will have to be reopened and this period from this date, 1.7.2002, until the date on which the Treaty enters into force. On the other hand, as far as things go, the Treaty does not solve them badly at three key points. The first point is the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the regulation of the issue of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. This has already been said, but it is worth noting once again that the negotiators in the negotiating reports wrote that the location of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is used for the temporary storage of low- and medium-radioactive waste until the end of the life of the power plant. I think that this is an extremely unacceptable provision of this Treaty, as well as of the reports of the negotiating points, and this is a key flaw in this Treaty. That is to say, let us leave the disposal of radioactive waste to future generations, let our sons deal with it, perhaps also to grandchildren, and let us now gladly use the nuclear power plant, the relatively cheap energy it gives, and, of course, let us transfer the obligations to future generations. This I think is irresponsible, and this is also a key point to this agreement. The financing of decommissioning through two funds is also an important point. We have always warned that such a way of financing decommissioning and landfills must be put in place, as permanently as it has been outlined, that a single fund has been set up to do so through the share of electricity produced, the share of each kilowatt-hour, and, of course, we will also somehow provide a solution to these problems, such as landfills and decomposition. No! No! The Treaty provides for a different solution, providing a very uncertain solution, as far as the Croatian parties are concerned. See, Croats now have very cheap electricity, cheaper than the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and how to think that they will now be disbursing into their own fund to save the landfill of radioactive waste. I don't think they're going to do that, and that was a key consideration of that. I'd like to highlight a key weakness, that's a management weakness. Management is made up of parity, which means that each party has one representative at a time and, of course, if it does not come, the Slovenian can draw this decisive voice, but at the same time it is also an emergency and must defend itself before the Supervisory Council and then a potential arbitration. I think that this kind of management leads to a rather indecisive management, and I think that indecisive governance for such a nuclear facility can only be poor. We will oppose the Social Democratic Party for these three reasons and for some other reasons, and we will not support the ratification of this international treaty. However, it is true that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has only come to know some inconsistencies that the regulation has reached, and not least to correct the key problem, this is the faster resolution of the landfill of radioactive waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Comrade Visjak. Mr Podobnik will present the position of the SLS Group. He's got a buddy named Kebrich behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues, behind us is the opinion of the Constitutional Court, behind us are the separate opinions of the Constitutional Judges. After us are the expert opinions of Prof. Udeta, Pogačnik, Juhart and others. We have a political decision before us, to vote in favour or against an international agreement. The ratification has been opposed for more than a year by representatives of one of Slovenia's major regions, the Posav region, where a nuclear facility is also located. Ratification, unfortunately, is also opposed to an important part of the Slovenian professional public. The ratification of this Treaty is also opposed to the participation of the Slovenian political public. In our firm belief, today's ratification, if any, does not in any way mean that the process of identifying damage to state assets in the trade in energy from the Croatian part of NEK Krško is completed. We have a parliamentary commission of inquiry set up. Let's keep this one working. The irregularities of individuals, legal and natural persons should be further identified. Formal coverage of an international treaty cannot be rescinded by liability. There are two key starting points when we decide how to vote today in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I've told you before in this place. All three Slovenian People's Party ministers voted against the government. When an official decides on the future of a nuclear facility, the decision should not go beyond two fundamental points: what is the attitude of the local community and what is the attitude of the profession to this issue. In our opinion, the Posav municipalities rightly requested a guarantee for the safe disposal of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. The requirement of the Posavina municipalities is independent of the Interstate Treaty and is permanent. People live there. They are not interested in politics between Slovenia and Croatia. They're interested in their safe future. The local community also rightly wants a clear position of responsibility for the management of a nuclear facility, precise deadlines for the construction of a radioactive waste landfill and, above all, financial assurances that this will happen. And last but not least, in fourth place it rightly also requires a permanent compensation system - a local rent issue. In this place first thanks and recognition to local politicians in Posavje, - you have done an honorable and good job, I am proud of you! If anyone wants, even in the media, I've tracked your work down only for borrowing local money and the municipal budget, he's doing you wrong. You have taken some steps that politics has not been able to take. Some of the laws we have adopted today, and perhaps some other decision is due to your energy. And thirdly, ratification is supposed to take place in cooperation with the profession. A few delays in the ratification decision were positive, at least because a draft European directive had taken place in the meantime, and that was good. With an additional amendment, we will at least partially install several possible fuses, on the basis of which we can say that if certain provisions of the Treaty are not implemented for these or other reasons, we will follow the directives of the European Union, which are absolutely above such or other political majority in this or other country with which the Republic of Slovenia has an international treaty. I will give a few views on the amendment and the opinion of the Constitutional Court as a Member. The Slovenian People's Party's Group and its Members will vote in our conscience today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Comrade Kebrič, you have the floor to present the views of your parliamentary group; behind him is colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In our Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we are aware of the great responsibility for the decision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u187	Comrade Kebrich, just a moment! I don't think the microphone's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u188	We are aware of the great responsibility for deciding whether to adopt a proposal for a law [[I won't give you a long address because you have it in front of you.]] But no. Ratification of this law is a very, very important act, not only for people living in the immediate vicinity of the Krško nuclear power plant, but for all Slovenian citizens, but also for the long-distance environment, because if anything happens in such a nuclear power plant, the consequences are not unpredictable, because we have certain cases - Chernobyl and beyond. That is why we believe that what is better than two bad cases - or delaying - is either well-intentioned that we have obtained the opinion of a constitutional court, or, rather, I will not say to the wicked, but to the less well-intentioned, that we have lost or gained time. At that time, what was going on, what was going on with the delay or, in other words, what was it, more nicely, the delay in favor or who was doing the damage? We believe that it is necessary to assess both sides. Minister of the Environment, Master of the digger, nicely stated the dates, I'll give the round numbers myself. It took three years for us to negotiate a treaty. Whether they negotiated very well or less well or successfully or less successfully - the result is on the table. Of course, in the rest of the time, almost two years for ratification, as long as it took Croatian partners to resolve through the assembly whether they contributed with an addition and whether lawyers interpreted it as a reservation or not. The important thing is that we have what we have on the table now. We can criticize each other. If we do not accept this proposal for ratification of the law, we must be aware of the responsibility for further delay. Whether this will bring greater harm or little benefit, this is an essential issue in deciding in our parliamentary group and I believe that you have all remained before the same dilemma if you are putting harm and benefits on the scale. In any case, we are aware that, on the one hand, it is a priority for Slovenia to take care of the safety of the nuclear power plant not only because of us but because of the wider environment. This is our responsibility, and I think that Slovenia is doing it well and that we can be happy and proud of it. Or we know whether we will be able to cash this correctly, and this has been demonstrated by the negotiations and the result that we have on the table. I believe that we have not endured all that we can, but neither one nor the other partner is fully satisfied with this contract. Therefore, the question is whether any other delay and new negotiations for the new treaty would bring more or even less. Thank you very much. Our parliamentary groups will vote in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. My colleague Sok will present the views of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by his colleague Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. For the introduction to the obvious opposition - and I must say that also certain Members of Parliament - that this agreement is extremely bad, I have read the statement made by Dr Robert Golob on the Foreign Policy Committee, former Secretary of State in the Ministry. He says: "The claim that the signed agreement for Slovenia was harmful is not nearly true. The signed agreement was very good for Slovenia because it settled all financial disputes with the common will of the past. What the opponents of the agreement can see is that it has not completely resolved all potential conflicts in the future. And I think that's why you have to be aware of these responsibilities." It further states: "The Republic of Croatia has also committed itself to this agreement not to enforce the legal situation towards the Republic of Slovenia or the nuclear power plant due to the lack of electricity." And this, in fact, also in our party, we have always realized that this agreement has made up for some irresponsible behaviour of the Slovenian government when it was once August, so I would say, unilaterally shut down electricity and, of course, caused the situation that today the Croats are threatening us with lawsuits for not supplying electricity. For this reason, the Slovenian Government in this agreement also had to agree to solutions that are unacceptable from the Slovenian point of view. I'm not going to repeat them. They've been told here many times today. But I will tell you which solutions, which would also be satisfactory for the opposition party of New Slovenia. Certainly such management of the nuclear power plant, where there would be no need for arbitration or what we have heard today, that the Republic of Croatia has even incorporated into its law a commitment that the Croatian part of the Commission must obtain the consent of the Croatian Parliament for all the decisions it will take. This will of course mean a lot of complications in the future, because it is very easy to imagine that there will be conflicts at this level, that Croatia will want to have cheap electricity, and the Slovenian side will have to worry that the nuclear plant will work safely, which is in the interest of Slovenia in particular. Furthermore, we would like only one fund to be legalised in this agreement, which would be powered by funds that would be included in the price of electricity. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. The state was negotiating, the government was negotiating that two funds would be built and then two nuclear landfills would be built after the proposal for this agreement, one in Slovenia and one in Croatia, which is a complete nonsense, and I could even say, a lot of stupidity. I do not believe that this will happen, but I say that this issue will remain in the burden of Slovenia, but the government sees that this issue will be addressed in the future in 2023, 2025 or later - that is when, of course, someone else will have to solve the accumulated problems and bear a great financial burden of what we will accept here today. So this would certainly be what would, of course, satisfy everything and why we could vote in favour of this agreement. Since this agreement has not resolved these dilemmas in such a way, and since we have also acknowledged this today, when we have somehow changed the two laws that are test-related to this ratification agreement, we have consciously decided in our Group that we will vote against this agreement in our conscience, because now more than at the beginning of the debate, we believe that this agreement is harmful and that the price of this agreement will be paid by someone who will lead this country when we are no longer in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u191	My colleague Vnučec, you have the floor to present the views of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, behind you my colleague Potrč, then I have a colleague Anderlič here for the LDS Group, and if there are any other discussers, then we will move on to a decision. Before that, we'll have reports on the bench, so the amendment will be clear. Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we oppose the adoption of the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to investments in the Krška nuclear power plant. We have clearly presented our views several times. At this point, we would like to draw attention to 31 May 2002, where the positions of the Slovenian Nuclear Experts Society on the Interstate Agreement of Slovenia-Croatia on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant were presented. Article 3 of the Treaty sets out the parity composition of the Assembly, the Supervisory Board and the Administration. Where there is no consensus within the Parity Board, the decision voted on by the President of the Administration shall be taken. However, the deciding vote of the President of the Management Board may be used exceptionally when a disagreement on the Administration would endanger the safety of operation, significantly endangering the achievement of the objectives set by the adopted annual economic plan or causing greater harm to society. Where the President of the Management Board uses a deciding vote, he shall immediately request the President of the Supervisory Board to convene his meeting, which shall address the eligibility of the use of the deciding vote and take the appropriate decision. In the absence of such a decision, the judgment shall be left to the three-member international arbitration under Article 58 of the Social Treaty. Conflict and inefficiency in governance are unacceptable for a nuclear facility and constitute a direct threat to nuclear safety. The Nuclear Safety Convention also obliges the Republic of Slovenia to entrust primary responsibility for nuclear safety to the holder of the operating permit - in this case the nuclear power plant. In order to achieve the security and production objectives effectively, the hierarchical organisation of the management structure with clearly prescribed responsibilities for each individual is strictly defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u193	Please, you have the word, you're the only one you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u194	I see that the debate is on a different subject, so I stopped. The envisaged commercial technical arbitration shall carry out decisions on nuclear safety outside the nuclear power plant. So on a level that doesn't have any responsibility for nuclear safety. Such a solution is a source of situations that would not contribute to nuclear safety. This is why nuclear experts have proposed a better solution. The management of the company must be able to take operational decisions on its own; if there is no consensus, there must be a possibility of voting, but such a decision must not be regarded as something exceptional, but as a normal business event for which the persons involved are responsible to the owners, in the case of regular checks on the achievement of the objectives set. With regard to the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste, it was pointed out in the company of nuclear experts that, in particular, the common programme of disposal and spent fuel would be in force if agreement was reached. However, Article 10, paragraph 6, provides that the location of a nuclear power plant may be used for the temporary storage of radioactive waste and nuclear fuel until the end of life. The seventh paragraph of that Article also provides for a case where the Parties do not agree on a joint solution to the postponement until the end of their lives. In this case, the Parties undertake to complete the collection and removal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel from the location of the nuclear power plant no later than two years after that date, in each half. Therefore, it is highly likely that these will determine the problem of the disposal of radioactive waste can be postponed for a period of time following the end of the nuclear power plant. It is also likely that despite the signed contract, even then due to pressure from the Croatian public, as we have seen in the present case in smaller projects, it is possible that these wastes could not be exported to Croatia. At the same time, the provisions of such contracts may prevent the search for an appropriate landfill in Slovenia. Thus, after the lifetime of the nuclear power plant, it can happen when we do not have a landfill in Slovenia and not in Croatia. Let me finish. Of course, it would be better if Slovenia committed itself to redeeming Croatia's share of the right price and to save its own nuclear waste. From a nuclear safety point of view, however, we believe that it would be appropriate to purchase these rights. And as I mentioned in the introduction, the Young Slovenia Party will not support the ratification proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u195	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. My colleague Potrč for the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and then my colleague Anderlič for the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The decision to ratify the Interstate Treaty on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is difficult. The Constitutional Court did not give us the opportunity to get rid of these responsibilities because it found that the treaty was not contrary to the Constitution. At the same time, in its explanation, it cited a number of valid arguments, by which it reminds us that, if I simplify, the content of the contract is not necessarily sufficiently balanced and that the content of the contract leaves a number of open questions for the Slovenian side as well. It noted that the Treaty is not contrary to the Constitution, since it ensures that Slovenia can and must comply with its obligations to protect the environment, including nuclear safety. However, how - not in a way that the Treaty provides us with, but in a way that does not prevent us from doing so, because we have to comply with all these obligations on the basis of our own constitution, our own legislation and international conventions, because the power plant is located in our territory. And that will finally remain our obligation. The question of determining landfills, storing radioactive waste, financing decommissioning, management, these are questions, rain, also others you have said, under this contract arranged in a way that we believe is not good or not good enough for Slovenia's interests. I think it is right to say this, regardless of whether this moment can be estimated that the possibility was to conclude a more appropriate agreement. However, I think that today, by adopting two laws or supplementing two laws, we have resolved on behalf of Slovenia, but for the security of Slovenia and the Slovenians, especially the local communities and the population in the wider area of Posavia or the Krka thing, in a way where nuclear safety will be ensured and where even if the interstate treaty is not respected, if they do not respect Croatia, there is always such a possibility, and very precisely the order of acts and sanctions are not envisaged that we ourselves, with our obligations and resources, will ensure this nuclear security. In this part, some of the weaknesses of the contracts are eliminated, not all. In this part, I think, even in local communities, they have rightly requested that these issues be addressed. I don't mind that even with a certain rent on the location of the power plant itself and the landfill. If it were just what I'm talking about right now, it would be easier to say that we are not ratifying the treaty. However, there are other elements that are rightly cited. The demands for redemption may be good today, but they are unrealistic. First, it is necessary to decide whether to ratify or not. The only way to propose redemption arrangements now is if the opposite partner agrees. If I didn't agree, it's a good idea, but it's unreal. It must be said that the opposite partner has already submitted a pre-election procedure and that at the end of March, the deadline within which he could continue to arbitration under the nuclear safety convention already ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, as well as Croatia and many legal experts estimate that arbitration would be uncertain. As follows, it is correct to say that Slovenia has some bad conscience over the decision in 1998 to suspend electricity supply and that there are legitimate claims that should be paid if the contract is not ratified. Finally, it is right to say that in the event of failure by the Republic of Croatia to fulfil its obligations, Slovenia could cancel the contract and in this case be in a more favourable position. All these other reasons are that, when weighing the arguments for and against our Group of Members, it is right that it will decide to ratify the Treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u197	Thank you very much. My colleague Anderlich for the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u198	Finally, there will be a decision on the ratification of the Treaty, which comes to this National Assembly very late, to deal with issues that have been open for more than a decade and that we have missed a time when more rational, quality and, of course, the satisfaction of both sides, both countries and, of course, local communities could regulate these issues. It must be said that it is better to resolve the issues than to remain open. And, even if a question seems not well settled at this time, however, it begins to be regulated in the way between the two states are governed, i.e. by the contract, by the procedure provided for in inter-State relations and, of course, a solution can be reached in this way. In our view, of course, the worst things are to not regulate, leave things open and have things so seemingly problematic so from the point of view, above all, I am talking about the part where some find that the issue of nuclear safety is not sufficiently addressed or optimally regulated. However, nuclear experts speak of the need for some things to be arranged differently. Reports, which can also be obtained each year from the Vienna Institute and international institutes that monitor nuclear safety, speak of the safety of the Krško nuclear power plant. Of course, this agreement is likely to make this control and way even more effective, and the answers in the public will also be more convincing than they are now. It is important that the contract regulates things even backwards, for the time when the power supply to the Republic of Croatia was cut down on the right arising from the 50:50 ratio, as far as the underlying investment is concerned. And that's right after all, once these things have to be settled. It is certainly also useful that there has been an agreement with the local community, although of course I am disappointed that some things have not been handled better, more effectively and above all that it is necessary to make a great deal of effort in the Republic of Slovenia, to get to a permanent waste disposal site, but until then, of course, this landfill is a temporary landfill in the Krko nuclear power plant and that this environment must live with it. In these discussions, it was obvious that there was agreement that with some compensations all three congregations would gain little in my opinion. But of course, that was the deal, and I respect that agreement with the local community was reached. I am confident that the expected directive of the European Union, which has already foreseen certain ways of managing landfills and managing radioactive waste, will also translate what Slovenia will thus explicitly introduce into the European situation, and that this will also put pressure on the other contractual partner to do so, and that we will therefore support the law on the ratification of this Treaty in the Group of Members, as well as, of course, this amended article 2.a.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u199	All right, buddy Anderlich. At the right time, we are now receiving an additional report, which was adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. It also contains the text of the amended proposal for a law on ratification with Article 2a. In the second reading, the Committee on Foreign Policy, as a competent working body, has not adopted the amendment, so that we are now at third reading and are deciding on a proposal for a law in its entirety. I'll wait for you to get an additional report on the bench, so we can move on to a decision. Anybody want a word? Please, mate Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u200	I'm asking you on a case-by-case basis, isn't there a debate between Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u201	Before deciding on the draft law in its entirety, yes. You have the floor if that's what you want. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, President. I was already afraid that there would be no possibility for Members to say anything at the expense of this interstate treaty. The story of the ratification of the Interstate Treaty has a gray beard. Of course, the views of Members, as well as of the political and professional public, are very different with regard to this Treaty. The problem, which is constantly in the air, is that the Slovenian negotiating group has apparently completely ignored the Slovenian nuclear profession in the preparation of the Interstate Treaty, and therefore those parts of this Treaty that regulate economic issues, which unfortunately are not up to our Members, are much better solved than the rest of this Treaty. I do not want to overtire Members in these late hours with discussions that have already been discussed in the public over the media, but have already been debated here, but I certainly need to mention at least two essential things very briefly. For the first time, I would like to point out that it is the power to judge this treaty through a legal perspective. This has been done by the Constitutional Court, as well as recently by eminent Slovenian professors, doctors of law, who, of course, have judged this contract in their own way and as many as the judgments were, there are of course so many different views on this contract. We can judge it from an economic point of view, and if we look at the social contract, as well as the basic contract, you will find that when we talk about money, there are specific stories in hours. But when we judge this contract through an ecological perspective, we are talking about decades, virtually centuries. And since I come from Kršček, I tell you, it does not seem fair to us, it does not seem fair to us that you have taken all of us! You sold the Krška nuclear power plant, half the Slovenians, half the Croatians, and left us only nuclear waste, without a solution to how these nuclear wastes will be disposed of. And if anyone thinks it's our whim, that we've been dealing with this issue for a year and a half, then I ask you if you want to have nuclear waste, and what should be raised is a Member who today hopes to claim that he will take them to his congregation, along with the rent, completely as far as we have. I tell you, there's no money to buy my health! And let's not let this leave us to die like rats down there! We simply demand that these issues be resolved in this Treaty. Some of the legal bases that we have adopted today, the law on nuclear safety, the law on compliance and also the amendment adopted by the committee, show that obviously Slovenians need someone else to tell us what we have been saying for a year and a half. We told you that the issue of nuclear waste cannot be resolved. We have told you that by 2025 or by 2050 this issue cannot be opened. And the European Union directive has now told you what we have asked you on your knees to take it into account in this Treaty. And now, if we judge the contract in terms of safety and waste management and decommissioning. Although I am sorry - i.e. the Infrastructure Committee has treated this contract as an interested working body. Representatives of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for the Financing of Decommissioning, the President of the Society of Nuclear Experts of Slovenia, the representative of the Krško nuclear power plant, the mayor of the municipality of Krško. The vote on the committee was negative; all of them rejected the contract and said that it was bad and unacceptable. And we have waved with our left hand in front of a complete Slovenian nuclear profession, in front of a complete team of people who have been working for decades at the Westinghouse nuclear power plant in America, and we say that these are ordinary losers who have nothing to say about the agreement. Uroš Korže led this - although I regret to say this - Uroš Korša led the negotiating group and even in the time before the initialisation of the contract there were the same warnings as we adopted through law today. Nobody wanted to take that into account. Today, questions are raised as to the relationship between the regulation that we have adopted, which is in force today, and what is in relation to the international treaty and in principle what will happen today. In fact, it's tragic. That we had adopted two laws two hours ago and that we would say that by ratifying the interstate treaty, that is not the case. Since the Constitution states that the adopted inter-State treaties derogate from the provisions of national law. And that's what we used to say behind that counter to support. That's right, we support it, but we're going to cancel it with this interstate contract. We actually made fun of ourselves and make fools of ourselves. And what I want. I have talked about this many times, I believe that the majority supporting this agreement has arguments, and these arguments were very strong at the outset, so we have very quietly pointed out the question because we did not allow Slovenia to lose the Piran Bay at the expense of the agreement on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Although we had warned of this, the weight was, of course, the Bay of Piran, it was the limit. And yet we would have eaten this agreement because there was an incredible amount of it in the game. But where's the deal today? Where's the border agreement today? He's not here. There is only an agreement on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. President, I'm gonna finish up, so there won't be any anxiety. I just have to say that I will vote against it. I won't be offended, I won't be hurt, all those who vote for it, maybe you're doing the right thing. But please understand us, too, that we have the right to fight for ourselves, and not to report that we are fighting for money. I've never mentioned money, and even today I'd like to see that it's not a word, not a word. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And again, come on, take the money away. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u203	At the college last week, we talked about ending the session around 6 p.m. My proposal is to conclude this agenda item and then proceed with the other four tomorrow evening, and, of course, after the end of today's work, we will begin a meeting of the Constitutional Commission. I have two more reported, colleagues Podobnik and colleague Rokavec. The Rules of Procedure do not set a clear limit here, we are in ratification, we are in a rapid process, so I suggest we say everything that is necessary, but we are not too long in these developments. First colleague Podobnik and then colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, President. This is one of the few areas where you can talk a little longer in the National Assembly and not be afraid of this possibility. We've got so little of it. I won't be too long. First of all, I would like to express my message of solidarity with my colleague, Mr Jance. And I understand your situation and I appreciate your performance. My only reaction to your performance is to press the button. That's all I can do as a Member. But I respect your performance and your attitude to this question. I would like to discuss a further proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, this law is fundamentally different. There's an article 2.a. He's very different. I'd like to say what my colleague Janc ordered. His historical memory sometimes has incredibly short legs. I would like to remind you together of energy, political motivation, incredible promises that we will resolve some open issues in a package between Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The former Prime Minister said that we should put up with the agreement on the Krška nuclear power plant because something good will happen to us at the border. What's the extraction? At the border nothing, but at the Krško nuclear power plant, we have a serious and unpleasant feeling that we are nevertheless adopting an agreement which, unfortunately, is not good for the Republic of Slovenia in all its provisions. When I was preparing for this performance, I specifically wanted to point out that it is correct from the National Assembly and, in particular, from one of those who signed the request that the Constitutional Court deliver an opinion on the compatibility of this agreement with the Constitution, in order to make an announcement and comment on it. First of all, I firmly believe that this time delay and political responsibility of the 31 Members have also given birth to the fact that today the political majority in the National Assembly will adopt a slightly better international treaty or an international treaty law. And if I add to this the continuing political energy of the Posav region, because this, in particular the Posav region, has achieved in its constitutionality that we have introduced in today's amendment to the committee some of the provisions called upon by the Constitutional Court in its statement. I would like to remind you of the opinion contained in this Opinion of the Constitutional Court. One of the constitutional judges said what a fine judgment it was. First of all, the fact that it has not given in to the pressure to decide overnight, and above all, the good thing is that it does not hide the weakness of the contract on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and that it warns of the possible dangers and traps that its ratification and unilateral use may lead to. The opinion of the Constitutional Court has burdened us with responsibility to eventually adopt an international treaty that would be contrary to the Constitution. Unfortunately, we were placed in a much more difficult position. We accept an international treaty, which, in some of the solutions, as the Constitutional Court says, in its 41st sentence, allow me to quote it: "The question whether the government has reached a balanced conclusion in the negotiations on the contract and for both parties a just and acceptable solution, or whether the Republic of Slovenia does not assume additional obligations, you are the subject of a constitutional judgment, or the matter of a political assessment of the State Assembly. This is a situation which must be considered by the National Assembly before the ratification decision, which is also politically responsible for its decision." There is only one hour of discussion on the working body. Thank God that when we have adopted the Rules of Procedure, at least we can talk about these issues here. And, of course, from correctness to the proceedings and to the Constitutional Court, I would like to draw your attention explicitly to sentence 22. In fact, paragraph 22 speaks of the fact that, under Article 3, paragraph 2, of the Act, namely, the law relating to decommissioning, the Croatian delegation in the Interstate Commission must require prior consent from the Croatian Parliament from all activities relating to the programme for the disposal of radioactive waste and the programme of decommissioning, if necessary for the protection of the nature and health of humans. The Constitutional Court states: "The Constitutional Court did not have to answer the question whether the provisions constitute a reservation within the meaning of the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Treaties of International Law. However, after the ratification process, the National Assembly will have to decide whether or not it is still a contract with the same content." At least in the formal procedure, the National Assembly did not do so. It has not identified in any ratification procedure whether or not it is still a contract with the same content. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Court here was very brave when it entered into this question in such a specific way and it literally committed us to engage in a substantive debate on the nature of the supplement adopted by the Croatian Parliament at the time of ratification. And I conclude with the view that the decision on the Foreign Policy Committee, when it inserted Article 2a, is the right decision. In fact, this decision is in a similar way as the Croatian Parliament touches on the same subject. It shall touch the interstate commissions referred to in both articles of the Treaty. Our Croatian colleagues said whatever the decision was, it would go through the Croatian Parliament. It will therefore go through politics and political majority and their attitude towards the protection of health and nature. However, we have said that any decision by the Slovenian work of the interstate commission, which is also hand-bound, will in no way go beyond the directives of the European Union. This decision is European and is the right one, and since Croatia has already announced and made an application for entry into the European Union, I am sure that it will not itself understand it as a reservation, but will understand it as a European norm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u205	Thank you. The word is French Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Indeed, today it has already been said in this Chamber that a decision will finally be reached on the international agreement on the Krka nuclear power plant in the National Assembly. I am convinced that the time that has been postponed so far is very well spent for our country, for the safety of our citizens and that the urgency of making decisions in such documents is very inadequate. This was demonstrated by at least two decisions today: the adoption of the Nuclear Safety Act as well as the amendment of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krka Nuclear Power Plant and Nuclear Waste and, of course, the amendment itself. The fact is that if I touch only briefly on the agreement itself, I can find that it is contrary to as many as eight laws and the agreement itself is exempt from the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia in eight cases. And if I can only touch myself briefly, that is, under the energy law itself, Article 120 states that the privatisation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant is not possible. Secondly, it is contrary to the company law. This law expressly provides that a social contract must be concluded in the form of a notary record. The second paragraph and then the third paragraph of Article 3 of this Treaty are also very questionable. This has been mentioned many times today, as to the composition and method of decision-making of the Governing Board or of the Supervisory Board. This is not a good way to manage. We must be aware that, with the conclusion of the 1970 Interstate Treaty, the agreement is moving to a higher level, which also has higher legal status. This decision should therefore first ask what are the strategic objectives of one or other contractual partners in this Agreement. And here I have a fundamental question. I'm afraid they're different. The practice so far has shown that the opposing contractual partner has, above all, taken a different view of this common treaty in the field of nuclear security. And the agreement itself is an agreement of the way it is managed so far and also of the objectives so far, the strategic objectives of one or the other partners in this process. In doing so, I think the negotiators made a major mistake. And I still have a good memory today of those June days, or I think that it was already July 2001 when this Parliament was said before the adoption of the famous SOBS and the rush of the government to agree on both important matters for our country and the neighbouring country of Croatia, both on the regulation of the status of the Krk nuclear power plant and on the border between countries, so that things will be resolved in the package. Now all we have left is what's bad. And so once again, I wonder what the point of such haste is, and I am sure - I will conclude that there will be no exaggeration because of the time constraints we have - such an agreement, such a document is bad, and because it is bad, I will not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u207	Thank you very much. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, we regret that there has been an administrative error, that we could not be involved in the discussion in the context of the presentations of the parliamentary groups. I will therefore use the following minutes to present the Slovenian National Party's position on this matter. Although I believe that the story of the nuke has been dragging for quite some time now that this position is more or less well known. And that it might not even have to be stressed and repeated today. But it is precisely because, according to our assessment today, there have been various over-stressed situations that speak of the positive quality of the said matter that we estimate that history is to learn from it something good, that we will no longer make the same mistakes as we have done in the past. Unfortunately, this conclusion, and this assessment of ours, does not apply to the Slovenian government. For the Slovenian government, the Slovenian Foreign Minister, who claims or speaks about the guarantee of the country of Croatia, the guarantee of the country of Croatia, he speaks of obligations regarding waste, modernisation obligations and decommissioning obligations. We've had this situation and this picture in the past. We all know what the result was with approximately the same guarantee as the Slovenian government is offering us today. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we cannot agree to this theory. Even more, we estimate that the result of possible reception on the Slovenian side and later on the Croatian side will lead to the first phase of the internal conflict and in the second phase to a stronger conflict between the two countries. We also estimate that the contract or law destroys the possibility of redemption, redemption as an option indicated by the government, that the Slovenian side will undertake preparations for the purchase of this facility, the Croatian share. We estimate that by doing so, we will destroy our bargaining points of redemption or place them on a dimension that will no longer be acceptable to Slovenia. We estimate that this is a short-term solution and some seemingly high-quality agreement, which will make the relationship or situation with the Republic of Croatia worse in the long term. In particular for the price and account of the Republic of Slovenia and those citizens, which will be the result of today's decision of the National Assembly, whether in the form of such or other nuclear wastes they will bear exclusively themselves. I do not think we should accept the proposal for a simple reason, that is, because we do not have any guarantee, except for some guarantee which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia raises into an international guarantee to solve this problem. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will not support and oppose the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u209	Two more have been reported. Kolega Barovic and Vnučec and colleague Školč, colleague of Ašović. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. President. I won't be long. Mr Sašo Peca of the Slovenian National Party has already said the essence. I would like to point out that all those who are still gathered in this Chamber, let us recall the words of our distinguished colleague Janc, whom I very much agree today, that he has reminded us of many things that have already been said in this Chamber, as has already been said, what the relationship this Parliament has to, we will also say, the parliament of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, to these arrangements. Second, the relationship of Slovenia - the Krško - Croatia nuclear power plant. Several times he has been submitted to me, in my opinion, and I think my colleagues have also made a good proposal. Let's buy the Croatian share and take care of ourselves. No matter which party we belong to, we know that it is our responsibility, that that part of nuclear waste, if we already have a nuclear power plant that goes our way, belongs to us and we have to take care of it. However, we will not allow ourselves to take care of everything that remains, as far as I understand Article 2a in the amended bill, so that we can take over all the dirt at the expense of others. This proposal has never been adopted either. I am still thinking that it would be good to think about buying back our share and that the nuclear power plant is ours and then we will talk openly and honestly about it here. Too much confusion has been said today, too much time taken for the important things of this country, the Republic of Slovenia. So once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, let's not rush to think about it. On the one hand, the European Union is ahead of us, its requirements relating to Kyoto and other agreements, and let us be smart, let us consider what will be a good decision. Taking all the responsibility of yourself, sharing the burden or otherwise not going to work. I propose once again that we consider agreeing to buy this share, to become owners of the nuclear power plant, and then to talk about where we will give the waste, how we will proceed. I will not support this bill either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u211	He's a colleague of grandkids.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, today we face a problem that comes from a story when it was all ours. And no one thought back then about the waste problem, because it was far away in another timeframe and even under European Union directives, as we see it, it is moving away. They're kind of slowing it down, too, because it's kind of a global problem. Now, I don't know how much government has been dealing with the problem of whether it is possible to export these wastes, who would be willing to accept them and so on. And I think that this aspect should be more professionally taken into account and also presented to us what activities have been carried out in this area, if any. Finally, exports are also a solution to these wastes. Because here fear of fellow Janz is entirely justified. We already have a landfill, currently in the nuclear power plant itself, and as I said on behalf of the parliamentary group, the option is that it will remain so until the end of the life of the power plant What then, nobody knows. Even if we adopt this law today, we do not know what the other side will do in view of the current situation and even the upcoming elections with our neighbours. And also for blackmailing to solve other problems that we ourselves know are difficult and difficult to link to. Therefore, I would simply repeat what I have already done on behalf of the parliamentary group, that it was too little done on other solutions, was insufficiently done in the area of purchasing a 100 % share so that, if they were 100 % owners, it would be easier to talk about other options at some reasonable, normal price; of course the price now offered is not real, but the offer that every owner in the first phase is over-stretching. And I don't think the government has done their job here. And, as I have also said on behalf of the parliamentary group, I will not support the amendment of the law and I will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u213	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u214	Thank you very much. In fact, I would like to ask the question raised by this proposal for a new Article 2.a. To be clear, I am on the side of those who, despite their concerns, want to reach an agreement with Croatia in relation to all the problems related to the former, I will say, a common nuclear facility. What new Article 2a brings to my mind is that it in some way increases the gap between Slovenia and Croatia in the visa obligations of this power plant and, in particular, in the visa obligations of spent fuel and radioactive waste. From this point of view, I do not understand why this makes sense. It is only here that a directive will come that will be binding on us and will at the same time be qualitatively different from the obligations set out in the agreement. This does not seem good for me to propose to the Foreign Policy Committee. The visa requirements should be borne in mind by the need to ensure the same obligations in the future both for Croatia and for the Republic of Slovenia and the possible directive on which the explanation is based, at a time when it will be considered a pressure either to supplement the agreement or to implement the mechanisms set out in this Agreement more quickly. The unilateral takeover of an undefined obligation in advance is, in my view, as I am now reading, problematic and unacceptable and, of course, also harmful to the Republic of Slovenia. I'm allowing the possibility that I missed some of the things that aren't written down in this paper, but then I'd ask for further explanations. We are very busy these days dealing with the issue of validity, the obligations in the new European Union. One of the few issues that we have not dealt with is what will be the subject of, I will say, the internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether or not the European Directive will essentially cover obligations under the ratification of this law. I don't know how to answer that. I suppose, given this thesis, yes, the superiority of this right. If so, then such an article is unnecessary. If that is not the case, then it is necessary to provide some additional clarifications because, as it is said, the fears of those who see the greater obligations of the Republic of Slovenia are increasing the visas for waste and that remaining fuel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u215	Two more have been reported. I'm a colleague of Auschwitz and Potsch. First of all, my friend Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u216	Thank you very much. First of all, I will try to respond to my colleague, Školč. If I don't succeed, there'll probably be someone else on the side of the government. To say that there will be no obvious and not to say that after an accident I have proposed this amendment to the committee, and that is why I am answering this question. We have already taken this directive into account in the preceding paragraphs when amending our internal legislation, as regards respect for deadlines, in relation to a possible directive, which has already been adopted in the draft, and there are not many reasons why it should not be fully adopted within the European Union, both in the field of nuclear decommissioning and the permanent disposal of nuclear waste. However, of course, the opinion of those who participated in the preparation for this meeting and in some way negotiated the conditions required by the local communities, which is also to respect this future directive and to reduce the time limits, took precedence over the view that it is also necessary as some kind of reservation, although some legal experts say that this is not a reservation, this is taken into account in the law on ratification. I think that Mr Podobnik has mentioned this several times, and I am also, in some ways, pleased that Croatia has made a request for accession to the European Union, which is likely to be established. I am pleased about this, and I want this to be as soon as possible, because from then on Croatia will certainly have to act in accordance with certain European directives, for us very important and among them will be this one. Well, since I asked for a word earlier, I'll get back to the beginning. I would like to point out that I have been among those nearly a year and a half or two years ago who have opposed such signed contracts for the substantive reasons that have already been mentioned many times today. Of course, a lot has happened at this time, which can also convince me to support this treaty, even though I have weighed it for a long time, how and what. It must be borne in mind, however, that the Constitutional Court has decided that the Treaty is not inconsistent with the Constitution, although certain judges have had their separate opinions, but there are very few decisions by the Constitutional Court where there are no separate opinions, yet these decisions are taken into account as a whole. It is not too much to mention that we have taken into account all this time or that the government has taken into account many of the proposals that have come from the local community regarding decommissioning and disposal deadlines that we have put into our domestic legal system today. However, if the amendment to the ratification law has already been adopted, as well as a kind of reservation to the law on the adoption of this treaty. I must certainly mention that, in September 2001, I am on the Infrastructure Committee, and I think that the first one has made a claim for compensation for the devalued environment within the entire area of the Krško nuclear power plant, not only in the area of the municipality where the nuclear power plant is located. Unfortunately, very few people at the time, including in this Parliament and in the committees, understood me. Today this understanding is obviously much better and easier; you probably know why. I think they're still running some media today that concentration circle I proposed at the time. Well, these concentric circles obviously turn into an ellipse, which is also the right thing to do. I hope, however, that even in the local community, when this money is shared, the criteria that the people closest to the nuclear weapons that are most affected by this will also devote most of the funds that the municipalities will acquire in a new way. Not to be too long, I think that we can ratify the treaty with these corrections, even because this will facilitate possible arbitration for Slovenia, which is announced through the request of the Republic of Croatia under the pre-election procedure, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must declare by the end of April. And that some of the foundations that we are laying and will accept today will only be better for further negotiations than if we did nothing. One more thing, no one has offered any better option than we have before us. Except for this, of course, that we do not ratify the treaty and put the matter back in the way it is, but which is most likely the worst. Because the unresolved property relations between the two countries have already caused too many problems. And that can only go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u217	Even my buddy Potts is on my list. That's why I'm going to call my colleagues and colleagues in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I respect the opinions of everyone and will also understand the different definitions by voting. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the facts that define me as the decision that I will make, even because I am not sure that we have the same information or that maybe to facilitate our conscience, we also want to say something that is not true. Twice, three times there was a special emphasis on decision-making. I would really ask if you could argue with her. Look, we got a ratification contract on June 16th. Then a request was made to the Constitutional Court for judgment. We received our opinion on 16 December and today we are at the end of February, after two months in which we will decide. At that time, much was done, much done. They were intense conversations with the local community, absolutely positive. I'm not gonna say ideal, I'm gonna say positive. There were ideas and suggestions on how to complement existing legislation. We did something today. There have been reflections on whether we can supplement the ratification law ourselves and give ourselves our own right, our own obligation. It is a proposal and we will vote on it. And I have to say, I really don't know what the reason is to feel like we want to rush. I really don't have that feeling, and I'd ask for an argument, or he's making it up to you to ease his conscience. But we're gonna have to decide for a while. At that time, myself and our Group of Members contributed that the decision was not in December or January, but in February. Why? Because we considered that it was right that certain procedures should be carried out in the meantime and that urgent decision-making would not be useful. And once again, I'm glad we did it. Because it was useful and it was worth it. Not 100%, but the question of what is 100% possible to settle, so it is really not possible for me to resolve it. Secondly, I would like to ask if we all know that Croatia has initiated a pre-trial procedure. Do we know that, according to my information, the end of March is a three-month period in which we are supposed to respond in good faith? To then initiate an arbitration procedure under the Energy Charter Treaty, which has its own logic. And that this is not only about the demand to buy the power plant, but also about the demand to pay for unsupplied energy within four years. And that this arbitration procedure is likely to run or run. And according to experts who are written here and Juhart Pogačnik, in such a case the situation of Slovenia is worse than in other cases. I believe it, I have no reason to say it's not true. Question three, why don't we agree on a fair price? I mean, one of us ever made a deal, two of us have to be partners. One hard one, he can have a nice idea, only two have to be, without two partners there's no contract. And this moment we are at ratifying this prepared imperfectly, I say again, in many ways for Slovenia a bad contract, but to ratify it or not. Just, we can't say this moment, we'll see, we'll delay ratification for the next six months or a year, but let's try to get Croats to talk about redemption according to our criteria. Yeah, let's be real! It just doesn't work. And there are some of these things that I think have been said, which I just don't know if we have the same information or whether we value them so differently. Since the last of these legal experts is indeed Slovenia's obligations regarding the choice of landfill - not Slovenia, the obligations of both partners to the choice of landfill are not precisely defined. It is possible to count on the obligation to prepare a programme after 12 months of creating a common working body - an obligation to write down. This one is undeniably written down. From here on, experts also argue, different interpretations are possible, whether intensive action is in place to determine the location and the approval, whether the final one to which the Posavci rightly point is applicable is 2023, and until then we will have stored waste there. Only if we follow that only the treaty has to be interpreted in good faith can it be true that in such a case we have a situation in which the opposite side of the treaty does not comply. And because it doesn't meet it, we have the right to withdraw from the contract. And if in this case we withdraw from the contract because of the disrespect of the opposite partner, our position is also more favourable for the purchase talks than in the current case. I am simply summarizing what is said in this opinion. And these are arguments that are probably also to be taken into account and in which I would like you to tell me whether we have completely different data or whether we are deciding for a reason because this is our decision and we do not want to take the arguments into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u219	Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. Very much wise has been said today and I have learned a lot and I am grateful to all those who have told you what is wrong and what is wrong with this whole thing. That's why I'm not going to go into this alone, but I'm going out with one very old-fashioned principle, and that's the next. Firstly, we have never seen an entire contract, with financial works or an annex that should show what someone owes and so on. It's never been shown, and I've asked that multiple times, and I never got an answer. And for that reason, I certainly won't support this ratification because I don't know what we're ratifying - what? Whether the contract is the same as it was last June, whether it is different, or whether it contains all the parts or not. I've never seen any contracts that would be valid without parts that should be in there. If we're wrong, I'll be very happy if someone fixes me, but if I'm not, then I can think about why I won't vote for her.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u221	Finally, colleague Podobnik wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u222	Thank you very much. At the closed session of the Committee on Foreign Policy, Dr. Bernik asked at least twice, three times, four times if he could get papers on debts, on nets, on contracts, and we didn't see them. We didn't see that. He was very persistent, but he didn't get it. What's an integral part of the cover, I'd say, for the back. We cover sins that we do not fully know how great they are, who made them, why he made them, and what he has of these sins. That's a fact, too. We're covering it. But I would like to support the thinking of my colleague Potrč why Croatia has initiated the pre-election procedure. I would expect the debate of the National Assembly to go this way, to make a thorough analysis of what is better. We know that Croatia had to do this because of the deadlines. But you know, someone who looks differently sees in this extra Croatian guard and excellent subtle pressure on Slovenian politics. That's not an argument he'll ratify when I'm up against the wall. This argument is that I do not vote in favour of ratification. But I would like to get an answer written by two legal experts, whether ratifying this treaty with an additional article means a better starting point for the Republic of Slovenia in the possible arbitration, but not only that, for me, the future is in this direction that the Slovenian policy and state authority, with the interest of Slovenian companies, will have to bite the sour apple and slowly try to buy the Croatian part. For me, it is a question of whether to ratify this Treaty with all these provisions, or whether it gives us a better starting point when price negotiations will be tough in the coming years. That's a key question for me. That's not what we talked about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u223	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u224	Thank you very much. It's a very short question. Comrade Bernik asked again what he was asking and Comrade Podobnik confirmed that he was asking when we would get certain annexes that were not included. I ask the government and I demand an answer now if these annexes exist, why you have not shown them and if you are willing to do so tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u225	Minister, please. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u226	Thank you very much. These annexes, of course, all exist and there is no shame that anyone would not look at them. But if you'll excuse me, the answer to the question of the Member of the likes, I'd like to say that. Right now we have a request for a so-called peaceful settlement of the dispute. If, by 27 April, when the deadline expires, we do not respond in one way or another and the most appropriate way, according to the Government, is to ratify the Interstate Agreement, then the arbitration procedure is practically automatic. However, the arbitration procedure relates only to the so-called co-investor’s share due to the distortion of the investor’s share. There's a request from Croatia for $717 million. Well, this request would of course be contradicted, and a certain price should certainly be paid and this price would certainly not be very low. However, I would continue to live on the dispute that is pending before the economic court in Zagreb. And, uh, it's about the power supply. There is the claim of the Republic of Croatia to Slovenia about $280 million this time and increases from month to month. This would not be solved in the context of arbitration, but would be handled separately. And, of course, there's also debt payments because we haven't really been supplying this electricity since 1998. The Interstate Treaty, however, eliminates all obligations, both those relating to power supplies and those relating to possible claims for purposes of rebuttal, decommissioning, because they have not been involved in the management since 1998. So, of course, the answer to the question of the Member of the likeness is this, in the event that arbitration occurs in spite of this ratification, of course, in advance we enter it completely with an easy heart. However, as regards all the data relating to the Interstate Treaty and the negotiations, of course the MEPs of the National Assembly are available at any time, but of course it is a huge amount of this material that you can look at at at the Ministry whenever you want. Of course it's not for the MPs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u227	Good. There are no more speakers on my list, so I conclude that I can conclude the debate. We will move to a full vote on the law. Colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, please join us. Please explain your voice first, please, Comrade Kangler, explain your voice for two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Until an hour ago, my decision was not clear enough how to define myself to this problem. I can honestly say before you, after the performance of my fellow Member, Mr Janc, and after some cynical smiles from his parliamentary group, I decided in a moment to support him. From the environment from which Mr Janc and some other Members come, I also come from an environment where we had a conflict and a problem. Minister Digač will leave the government in a year and a half, or he will no longer be Minister. Liabilities to the State of the Republic of Slovenia will remain. As he said in Maribor, he had to attend meetings every day, he took all the energy to Ljubljana and left the river Drava, Ormož, Ptuj, Maribor with one big ecological problem, mud, river mud, disaster, manure, so today we will decide here, honourable Members and Members. When I heard that certain documents annexed to this Treaty were not available to Members, no one would convince me to support such ratification. I'm asking why they're not available. Krško is the subject of this contract, Krško will be an ecological problem, someone will collect their energy, all their resources, they will have nuclear waste. As far as I know, nuclear waste is being treated in such a way as to be poured with concrete. I hope that no one in the government or any of the other experts thinks that when they're going to rehabilitate a nuclear power plant with concrete, they won't be able to repair nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel in the same place. That's why I won't support this ratification.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u229	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then the National Assembly will move to a full vote on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're in the middle of a vote. We are voting on the law as a whole. 63 present, 41 for and 21 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it that the National Assembly has passed the law on ratification. This concludes this point. Colleagues and colleagues! 9, 10, 11 and 12 points, these are three ratifications and a proposal for a railway law, we will deal with tomorrow after the end of the other votes. We're gonna stop work for today. Members and members of the Constitutional Commission are invited, and in particular, I would like to ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups, if these members and members are not in charge of the replacement colleagues and colleagues, in 10 minutes to the large meeting room, to begin the meeting of the Constitutional Commission at 19.20 minutes. Thank you very much for tonight. My friend Janc wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u230	The Infrastructure Committee will meet tomorrow at 9:30 in Room 212.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-25-SDZ3-Redna-23.ana.u231	212, Infrastructure Committee, 9:30 tomorrow. Thank you.
