ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm about to proceed with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that some colleagues and colleagues are detained. These are colleagues of Dr. Jožef Bernik, Dr. Miha Brac, colleague of Celigoj, Jakič. My friend Kelemin can't be a part of this since 1300. From 2 p.m. onwards, Comrade Trofenik cannot cooperate. Also today, colleagues Merlo, Peterle, and Podobnik are unable to attend the meeting. First of all, before we go to the 11th item of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a decision establishing a university in Primorska, I ask: Does anyone object to the continuation of the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m.? My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u2	Of course, I am surprised at this proposal, given that yesterday, on your part, it was said that most of the message was if today, at an appropriate time, we ended the other points to continue with these two points. However, I have not been able to gain a different position in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u3	Well, a few members of the LDS, if the LDS think so, because this is the great parliamentary group, the largest, in fact the majority - it means that there is no agreement to continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Here we must take into account two circumstances - one, decision-making within the Foreign Policy Committee. Secondly, I would say so, very clearly and frankly - if and to what extent some negotiations or consultations are under way between political groups on the various proposals for the two referendums, I think it would be useful to give an opportunity, an opportunity to show whether we can conclude a solid political majority for one decision. To perhaps give this opportunity, which I think is an important opportunity for the success of this project. I'd like to do it myself. In short, I think it would be useful for us to continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Excuse me? Well, of course, colleague Anderlich, look. Of course, colleagues and colleagues are asking whether we will continue the meeting today or tomorrow. If we finish it relatively early in the afternoon, we will have to vote whether we continue tomorrow or not. Well, I was trying to say that some consultations, which are informal with regard to agenda items 18a and 18b, are taking place. Without doubting whether they would be successful or not, perhaps this afternoon would give us time to compromise. All right, the National Assembly will decide whether it will continue today or tomorrow when it comes to the conclusion of the 17th point. I think it would be useful if we continued tomorrow at 10 a.m. We're starting at 11. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I ask Minister Slavko Gabra to present a motion for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a decree establishing a third university in Slovenia. Slovenia received its first university in 1919. This means after World War I. It took a long time for this university to grow stronger and become a university in the true sense of the word. To be honest, it probably became a strong university only after World War II. In 1975 we decided to go to another university in Slovenia. It was the University of Maribor. As far as her fate is concerned, it was quite a while before we experienced this university and was accepted as equivalent to the first Slovenian university. Today we decide to establish a university in Primorska. The decree specifically states who is uniting in it, lays down the fundamental framework for the functioning of this university and thus formalises the last decade of development of higher education in Primorska in a certain way. Of the 6587 students and students, as many as we have without graduates and graduates in Primorska, 3390 students and students are included in this university. In the institutions listed below, they will try to find the way to diplomas as far as possible in a related way. Research work will also be carried out in this university. The government proposes that we adopt this decree and thus implement one of the ideas of the National Higher Education Programme, where this university is written down. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to a few other elements that we are interested in and I think are also of interest to the general public. I have deliberately pointed out how many students and students are entering the university that we are going to set up here in the National Assembly. That's a good half of everybody. This story itself speaks of the fact that before us, certainly in front of the Ministry, even in front of higher education institutions and in front of the municipalities, there is a thorough reflection on how we would actually round up the university, how we would enable it to live in the full sense of the word as a coastal university. How would it be able to combine the potentials it has and as such act as an element of border integration and an element of the integration of Slovenian space with European space? For this to be possible, we'll all have to do our part. As far as our ministry is concerned, I can express my readiness here to supplement the law which would allow the establishment of university centres to enable the proper autonomy of these university centres both organisationally and financially. Let me say that I expect the higher education institutions, for their part, to take up the real need to connect in this area, to find as much of a joint research and teaching work as possible, and that the municipalities will support it. In this case, the government is likely to arrive this year before the holiday in Parliament with a proposal to supplement the proposal that will upgrade this university. Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary! They will now get the word of the parliamentary group on the motion for a decree. First, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. He'll be followed by a committee report. Please, chairman of the committee!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u6	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Members and Members! The proceedings for the establishment of the University of Primorska have already begun with the adoption of the National Higher Education Programme, as it concludes that after 1994 higher education activities on the coast and in Nova Gorica have been significantly strengthened and that, with further investments by the State, this area is free to establish a third Slovenian University. The draft decree was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. At a meeting of the Committee, the government representative presented it to the Committee as the conclusion of one of the important stages of long-standing efforts to develop the University of Primorsk. According to the Minister of State, this development has not yet been completed and will need to be rapidly rounded up and also institutionalized. The Committee was also aware of the Government's intention, in cooperation with local communities, to seek to join the University of Primorska as early as this year, including other higher education entities already in existence in Primorska. To this end, the government will propose appropriate amendments or amendments to the decree if necessary, and if amendments to the Higher Education Act are needed. With such a complementary explanation to the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, the proposal for a decree deals with special attention and understanding for the solutions put forward. At the moment, three colleges - two higher education schools and two scientific institutions - are included in the university. Representatives of the public concerned also took part in the debate. The Mayor of Šempeter-Vrtojba Mr. Valenčič informed the Committee of the efforts of the mayors of the northern coastal area and part of the karst and interior statistical region, which met in Novi Gorica just before the decision was taken, where they found at the beginning of the coastal university the following: that at the initial stage of the establishment of the university the northern coastal area was less involved; that the formation of the coastal university was supported by all mayors, while they wanted equal treatment, that they wanted three campuses: in Koper Sežana and Novi Gorica; that the university should be established due to the logistical geographical position and long-term common interests halfway, that is in Sežana; that the newly established university should be given the weight of the coastal university based in Sežana. On behalf of the Koper Research Centre and the Faculty of Humanities Studies, Dr. Lucija Čok explained the efforts and embarrassment of creating a new university. It mentioned in particular the restrictions introduced by the Higher Education Act. He doesn't know the university centers. The legal autonomy of the university is also a type of problem. The Committee noted that it is essential to ensure that all Slovenian universities are included in the Bologna process. She also explained that in the process of establishing the new University, Gorska Politechnika was invited several times. It's also a maritime college. But they both had certain concerns. It supported the Government's efforts to build the new university gradually and that the adoption of the proposed decision is the first step towards this. The effort to establish the third university was also welcomed by the representative of the University of Maribor. He expressed his willingness to help, both professionally and in the scientific and research field, as well as organisationally. In the general debate, MEPs and Members advocated the adoption of the decree, while at the same time asking critical questions why not all higher education institutions in Primorska joined the university. Some felt that the adoption of the decree was only the first step, which was temporarily behind the wishes and opportunities, and that the decree would help facilitate and speed up the integration of other higher education institutions in Primorska into the university. Therefore, of course, the decree is not what was originally imposed. It was created as a result of various opinions, misunderstandings and also of contradictions that were manifested mainly in Primorska. They were generated in Primorske as well as in the wider Slovenian space. They also pointed out that it is important for the State to establish a third university before we become full members of the European Community. The draft decree was tabled by the SLS and the New Slovenia parliamentary group until consideration on the working body of the amendments. In the course of the debate, the Group of Members, with the first-signed Ljubo Germić, also tabled proposals for amendments to the Committee. To the amendments and amendments tabled, the Committee, taking into account the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, has defined as reflected in our report on the benches. In doing so, he supported the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 9 and the others did not. To sum up, the Committee welcomes the efforts to implement the idea of the University of the Sea as a project of national importance with which we must no longer delay. It therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision establishing the University of Primorsk be adopted together with the amendments tabled or supported by the Committee. Dear Members and Members! The committee gave birth to a coastal university with 17 votes in favour and none against. Now it's your turn to baptize her as a godfather and a godfather. I want the cross to go on a ceremony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Committee, colleague Moge, for the introduction and presentation of the Committee's views. They will now, as it is said, present the views of the Group of Members. Collegiate Ana Marija Tisovic, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, her colleague Lenko, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Secretary and Assistant Secretary. The New Slovenia Group welcomed and supported the proposal to establish a university in Primorska. It should be alive before it enters the European Union. The position of New Slovenia is that the doors of this university should remain open for the integration of new entities. More emphasis would also be needed on Nova Gorica, as we believe it has a larger backdrop of the Slovenians. We are also committed to leaving the question open where the university centre will be to reach the right and right decision by consensus. This is the position of New Slovenia. We will support the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. Comrade Lenko, delegation of DeSUS, please! He's been followed by a colleague of Puksic's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister! Colleagues and fellow Members! The establishment of the University of Primorsk is a major national event. Higher education in this area has been developing for four decades, although the greatest progress has been made in the last 15 years. We have acquired a number of new higher education institutions and study programmes. The number of students has increased. The initiative for the first Slovenian University, which was given in 1912, also predicted that the first Slovenian university would grow in Trieste. But the idea was sadly lost to World War I. After that, Trieste was awarded the Kingdom of Italy with the Rapal Treaty. However, the realization of the idea was disabled. Back then, we realized that it was particularly important to cultivate knowledge in the most exposed areas. Today we have a chance to replace the late one. We can't let this chance go. Not because the creation of a third university is important in terms of the new choice for future Slovenian students, but also because of the competitiveness of Slovenian knowledge, which will have to face soon the knowledge coming from the Member States of the European Union. By confirming the decision proposed today and strongly supported by the party of the democratic party of pensioners, a third university will be born - hopefully. In part, we will meet international standards by which Slovenia should have at least three major universities, or more than four, and more smaller local specialized ones. The establishment of the university also coincides with the incomplete idea of decentralisation of the country, which is also advocated by the Democratic Party of Slovenian Retired Persons and with the decentralisation of higher education infrastructure required by the Bologna Declaration. It will greatly contribute to reducing the cost for an individual. Scientific research and academic work across regions will be balanced. In the long run, this will contribute to social economic balance. In the coastal case, it is also possible to create easier studies at the local university of the Republic of Slovenia, thereby providing potential intellectual capital. It is imperative to have a university at least wherever regions are exposed to foreign economic and political influences. We must also remember that countries already in the European Union today have a time and financial advantage in speeding up the establishment of university centres, where Slovenian youth do not rarely go. This is also why a democratic party of pensioners will strive to put Slovenian higher education in the European Study Area here and now and to make the system conceptually comparable to systemic solutions in other comparable countries. We would like to point out that this decree or its adoption is only the beginning of a new path of the university. We need to understand the establishment as the cornerstone of the introduction to a new stage of development. The country, the local communities, the economy and the university themselves must work towards its effective functioning in all areas in the future. The Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will endeavour to amend the Higher Education Act as soon as possible, allowing the establishment of several university centres with adequate business and professional autonomy and the possibility of autonomous development. To the extent that such a decision would have been followed, the new associate members should not be in an unequal position with the founders of both institutional, professional and financial, as this would have lost their purpose in establishing the university. Consideration should also be given to amending tax legislation in order to promote a greater flow of funds from economic enterprises and individuals to universities and universities. We must not forget that, or at least, scientific research centres should be closely linked to economic operators, as well as to other civil society. However, the financial resources provided by the State for the new university and possible new associate members must be appropriate in the sense that there will be no prioritisation of a single centre. In this context, the democratic party of pensioners would point out that we must not forget the social fabric of future students. Furthermore, young higher education institutions are particularly sensitive to the field of human resources. It is therefore important that there are no institutional barriers to it. In no way should the existing infrastructure continue to be youthful, but we must strive to keep it evolving. We must never forget the specificity and geographical distribution of individual regions, which each require specific treatment for themselves. In our view, however, it would be wrong to establish closed and strictly specialised centres, as only integrated study programmes ensure full integration into the local or regional environment. Since all future and ongoing study programmes need a large number of highly-educated staff, there is a need to ensure a sufficient number of other programmes, as well as additional training for researchers and other staff. As regards the bilinguality of the name of the university and its individual members, the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners considers that it is not necessarily necessary for Italian titles to be included directly in the decree, since this obligation is already under the law which, if the university is to be the centre of the bilingual area, can properly be governed by the statute. We do not agree, however, that documents such as diplomas, certificates and other files would be issued bilingually, since this is a national and not a municipal institution. For the first time, Slovenian citizens have the opportunity to co-form Europe and contribute to the European project. As a result, it is very important for the Slovenian State to establish the university we are talking about today before we become full members of the European Union. This ensures a time advantage and, above all, prevents the brain from escaping, i.e. the departure of the young potential workforce that is urgently needed for the development of our young country. We must not just wait to learn from others about European products. All Slovenian universities must strive to be better than the European average. We need to capture the European Union with knowledge and contribute to the development of the Member States, taking into account national and regional differences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Lenko. Mr Puksic will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia regarding the establishment of the University of the Sea will, of course, be the same as it was on the Education Committee. This means that the Socialist Party's Group supports the establishment of a coastal university, although we have already expressed some concerns about the uncoordinated approach, as a result of the lack of legislation in the area of higher education. At the time of the examination of the creation decision, it appeared that certain provisions of the Higher Education Act were totally inappropriate and certain amendments were needed. It would be much better if we first amended the Higher Education Act accordingly and then drafted the appropriate text of the decision establishing the university. Now, however, the text of the decree is completely inappropriate and we fill legal voids with inadequate solutions. This will also result in a change in the decision itself on the establishment of the University of the Sea. This is an irrational approach to such an important national issue as the establishment of a third university in Slovenia. With regard to the amendment of the Higher Education Act. If this were done at the right time, it would probably also be a problem that opens up and is now being put in the form of amendments to the university headquarters. Therefore, it would have been better if this issue had been previously resolved. Nevertheless, as I have already said in the forecast sentence, despite all these concerns, we will support the decision establishing the university because this is a national project. In national projects, however, the Social Democratic Party always engages constructively. In this case, it is in the interest of the education of young people. However, in the Social Democratic Party, we would like to see a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a medical faculty in Maribor as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Puksich. Comrade Samo Bevk will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the decision establishing the University of Primorsk. The establishment of a third university in Slovenia is made possible by both the provisions of the Higher Education Act and the National Higher Education Programme, which we adopted in the National Assembly in February 2002. The reasons for the establishment of the University of Primorsk are based on the historical, geographical and cultural specificities of the region and the efforts of local communities. The establishment of the university is also necessary due to the accelerated economic development of the region. The aim of the new university is to cover the entire Primorska, not only the higher education institutions on the coast, but the rest, including the mountain. The establishment of a university in Primorska will make an important contribution to achieving the strategic objectives of higher education in the Republic of Slovenia, as defined by the national programme. The third university will facilitate access to quality undergraduate and postgraduate education for a higher proportion of young people, a growing generation. The share of the working population with higher and higher education will increase, as we have set out in the national programme a strategic objective to make this share 25% in 2005. Over the next decade, 35 students per 1,000 population are expected to be enrolled in tertiary education. In various forms of higher education and higher education, 50% of each generation will be enrolled. The establishment of the university will increase the number of places of entry, improve the performance of the study, improve and update the scholarship and the student standard, and will certainly increase the capacity of student homes. In short, accessibility to higher education will increase at all levels. All of this will be achieved by increasing funding for tertiary education, as recorded in the National Higher Education Programme, which is 1.5% of the gross social product in the next few years. The main tasks of the National Higher Education Programme are carried out by the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor. After 1994, however, higher education in the coast and Goriška was strengthened and developed in particular. Today, we have more than 5,000 students at the institutions of higher education in Primorsk. As set out in the National Higher Education Programme, this area is a potential area for the establishment of a third Slovenian university, at the time of further investment by the State, at the time of human and spatial development of these higher education institutions and institutes and due to common national interests. At the end of last year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Higher Education Council lit a green light for the establishment of the University of Primorska. The decree also supported the home committee of the National Education Assembly by a single abstention vote. The decree in the proposed text only includes members on the Coast, where there are also the most enrolled students. We regret that, at this stage, other institutions have not already been included in the new emerging university, especially the Gorska Politechnika. The situation at the end of last year was not simple. There might also be a different distraction. Any delay in the establishment of the University of Primorsk could also mean that they would not receive a third university in this term of office of the State Assembly. Therefore, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we support the position of School Minister Dr. Slavko Gabra, who says he will [[Quote]] : "I endeavoured to upgrade the University of Primorsk as soon as possible in order to obtain such an institutional and territorial structure which would justify the name in full; I count on the continued participation of the municipalities, professors and institutions. If more positive efforts are made, this will be an opportunity for all." [[End of quote.]] It is for this reason that the procedure for amending the Higher Education Act will have to be initiated by summer, and the decree will be amended on this basis. Let me conclude: The Group of the United List of Social Democrats will support the decision establishing the University of Primorsk and will also work towards the equal inclusion of other higher education centres in further procedures. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Štemberger. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that the Slovenian National Party absolutely supports the adoption of a decree or the adoption of a third university in the country of Slovenia. It is undeniable that the basic motto of such a decision is that the basic motto of such a decision is to enable young people to continue to be educated in different spheres. It is undeniable, however, that we have fallen back into the so-called Slovenian "sindrome of disputes" between Maribor, Ljubljana, now between Gorižana, Gorica, Tolmin and Kopro. I'm sorry to have to tell you these facts. But that's what they are. In the general provision, the explanation nicely states: "Because of the historical, geographical and cultural specificities of the intensive participation of local communities, the needs of the economy and the development visions of higher education institutions in this area, and in particular the desire for the functioning of the new university to cover the entire coastal space, the university has the power to create university centres. In addition, as with the other two Slovenian universities, with the consent of the founder, he may establish other legal persons and lay down the conditions for associated membership of independent higher education institutions. Hold it! They also keep facts that colleagues from the Karst, Sežan and Gorje areas make clear and loud. This is about respect for the Bologna Declaration, which speaks of decentralisation of education. As far as history is concerned, the fact that Goriška covers 216 kilometers of Slovenian border, that there are about 20,000 inhabitants in this area, that this area covers about 3,000 square kilometres. The fact is that, as a respected colleague mentioned before me - a bitter polytechnics - as far as I know, he does not want to go to this university. The fact is that the establishment of a new university, in addition to knowledge, will also create a new economic momentum. It is also true that Gorica does not fall under international jurisdiction, i.e. under a bilingual area. But these are just facts that speak in favor of one side. There are also facts that speak in favour of the city or the Municipality of Koper. We have a tough decision ahead of us. Now we are once again Members of Parliament who will have to say one way or another whether we will accept Article 2 or discuss the facts we have spoken. The facts are clear, the arguments are strong. I think it would be appropriate - and it would be appropriate - for these facts to be brought to light before swift adoption of such or other decisions. The Slovenian national party has tabled an amendment, in fact, which was tabled by the President of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plementi, in which he proposes otherwise that he be established in Sežana. But this amendment - I would like to emphasise, colleagues and colleagues, just take this as a warning, as a warning that this end is not to be ignored just like that and just once in a while. It would be ideal if we could build a university center at this end as well. It's just that in this country, it doesn't work out the way you want it to, and it doesn't work the way you want it to. In the Slovenian National Party, we will decide what our final opinion will be. Once again, I would like to point out that Minister Gaber himself said that it is necessary to think up, amend the law on higher education and that the National Assembly would decide on the spring decision after the previous comprehensive and thorough debate on the important development aspects of higher education. If you, dear colleagues, imagine yourself having the opportunity and opportunity in your place or in your surroundings, in your statistical region, where the situation is economically and generally very bad to have this opportunity and power, I am sure that everyone would be very happy to do anything to make such a university centre grow. This is also an important information for Goriška, Sežan region. I've put down some warnings that I think are worth admitting to each other. I say again in the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly support the establishment of a third university after a sober reflection. However, we expect that the decision may be made or taken a little later in the sober consideration of all the facts we have stated. Such a decision must, once again, be thoughtful, sober and negotiated, but not only agreed quickly and in our opinion sometimes superficial. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I now give my word to my colleague Igor Štemberger. He will present the views of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Christmas. First of all, Comrade Stemberger, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you for your word! There's probably no one among us who wouldn't support the establishment of a third university. It is a long-standing desire and the need for Slovenia to create new centres of knowledge and research. This is a follow-up to trends in the world and Europe. It is particularly urgent to join European integration. The new university is also part of preparations for a better starting position for Slovenia in the United Europe. If there are no quality institutions in our space that will be attractive to students and scientists, including from the neighborhood, not only for the locals, we will not be able to prevent the spilling of personnel and knowledge into foreign universities that literally surround the coastal area. Like: River, Trieste, Gorica and Videm. We expect the new university to develop an intensive scientific activity. Because the scientific level and innovation are the factors that create a valid and reputation to attract both experts and students, not only domestic ones, but also from abroad. Only such a university could be an equal partner to domestic universities, as well as to foreigners in the neighborhood. The University of the Sea should motivate the local economy to participate in scientific and pedagogical activities. The practice of such connections in the world is self-evident. The local economy is the one to map the direction in which the university is to develop. The University is a key factor that enables young people to have as much education, creativity, innovation as possible. We must follow the objective of providing quality education to as many young people as possible in all regions. Undoubtedly this is one of the most important projects in the coastal region, we can say, even state projects of late. However, the decree that we are formally meeting and establishing a new university today unfortunately does not have unanimous support. Unfortunately, we are witnessing various views, objections and arguments about the university's seat and geographical location. Proposals for the relocation of the university headquarters and the establishment of three campuses are currently being assessed as inappropriate. The fact is that 6,000 students, as far as they are studying on the Coast and who will be included in the new university, represent a large majority, not to say, of the entire student population of the new institution. It's right that the head office of the university is where the students are, that's in Cyprus. We expect that the university will be open, that it will grow in other coastal cities. It would be completely unfair to define only three points where university centres should be established today. Time will show which direction the university will develop, both substantively and territorially. Today we cannot know whether such centers will be just Koper, Nova Gorica and Sežana. Let's leave the door open for maybe Ajdovščina, Illyrian Bistrica, Idrija. Today, the decision on the proposed three centres would be completely without arguments and purely administrative. Wisdom would require that we leave each centre with independent growth, not with administrative intervention. If I may just finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u19	Please, just a thought!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u20	These totally unnecessary dilations are only hampered by the creation of the university, rather than facing the real picture and properly channeling energy towards the historic project, both for Primorsko and for the whole of Slovenia, which is undoubtedly the establishment of a coastal university. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Mr Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have supported the idea of establishing a coastal university in all past years. To this end, we organized two round tables in Novi Gorica and already participated on the round table on 9 May 2001 organised by students of the Gora, Tolmin and Ida Club. The thought written by Stojan Plesnik on the effort to establish the Slovenian University in Primor, dating back to the time of World War I, was explained today by Mr. Minister. Unfortunately, the Slovenians failed to gain a university before World War I. Not in a place as strong as Trieste was then. Regarding the importance for the Slovenian state, much has already been said about this. Although emotions are not in place, in the Slovenian People's Party we support the thinking of those colleagues who are convinced that the establishment of such a university is in national terms a major event for the Slovenian State and the nation in particular. Especially at the time of entry into the European Union. It is very important for the Slovenian State to establish a third university before we become full-fledged of the European Union. We can assume that the policy at national level has reached an agreement on the University of Primorska. There are several problems at regional or local level. It is necessary to understand that the geographical, historical and otherwise living of Primorska has some authentic life, that it has several eyes, that Koper has and has Novo Gorica. Kmetzelj wrote: "When we talk about Novi Gorica and about Slovenia Istria, these two cities need their fisonomy to be perfect, now with their deep and stretching back their university, a common coastal university with two locations, with two legs, with a growing tradition of spirit and intellect, youth pulse, national consciousness and culture, which is in fact just more names for the same state. It is understandable that it has not yet been able to fully reconcile the legitimate ambitions and expectations of the mountainous part of Primorska. Only a warning shall apply. The importance of the University for the wider coastal area, Kras, Idrija church area and Upper Sočje. The University of Primorsk will also need political expertise and, in a sense, some national support. Once it is established, it will take some time to live both financially and in some others. If politicians only make a decision and think they've done everything, it won't be enough. There was a heated debate that the bag was only one. When we establish a university in Primorska, this must not mean that in any financial sense the University of Ljubljana or Maribor would be affected. So today, when we adopt a decree establishing a university in Primorska, we accept the commitment that the National Assembly, in cooperation, will give more money for higher education, not that it will divide the bag on three sides from the same date. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party supports the decision establishing the University of Primorska. However, the amendments themselves will be considered in particular when we consider and vote, if necessary, properly. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you, my dear friend Christmas. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by counterpart Ljubo Germič. This is also the last group of Members to communicate their views. Then I will give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Now he's got the word of a colleague of Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Knowledge is now one of the key factors in development, as well as its creation, efficient use and marketing. Ensuring the widest possible opportunities to acquire education and skills for work is the response of our country from all individuals to the titles and risks that globalisation, the development of the information society and the integration of our country into the integration processes. The decision to establish a third university is another evidence on the way to achieving the fundamental objective of economic and social development, so that Slovenian society becomes a knowledge-based society. The expansion of higher education and its decentralisation, giving new opportunities for education, are evidence that knowledge is what economic, social and cultural progress means. At the same time, it also means developing national identity and one of the foundations of equal integration into international integration. The establishment of a third university means the continuation of efforts, the involvement of Slovenia in international cooperation in the field of higher education, the possibility of creating comparable curricula and equivalent diplomas. It must be based on the achievement of the highest quality. This follows the content of the Bologna Declaration, which is a synonym for cooperation between higher education systems across Europe and aims to create a European higher education space based on the exploitation of advantages, diversity, multitudes, higher education systems. With the adoption of the whole set of new school legislation, we have also greatly helped Members to make both organisational and substantive changes in higher and higher education in the last ten years. Members of the National Higher Education Programme, adopted in February 2002, supported the establishment of the University of Primorska. We have written down that the creation of new higher education institutions cannot be fair, but must be accompanied by care for their quality. In addition to Ljubljana and Maribor, higher education activities on the coast and Nova Gorica have been significantly strengthened since 1994. Part of this activity is still taking place in the framework of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport and the Faculty of Education. Since the 1998/1999 study year, budgetary resources have also been provided to independent higher education institutions in this area, which have not been established by the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the legal provision on concession. The funding of student homes in this area is also under way. With the country's continued investment in successful further human, spatial and substantive development of these higher education institutions, institutions, with their closer cooperation and the strengthening of joint efforts for quality development, this area is a potential area for the creation of a third Slovenian university, both because of the development objectives of higher education and because of common national interests. These principles also include a decree establishing the University of Primorska. In its content, the decree lists the members of the university, the activities, the fields of study, the bodies, the acquisition of resources for work, legal representation, mutual rights and obligations of the founder at the one and the university on the other, and the provisions governing the tasks still to be performed until the start of operations. The basic text of the decree provided for the establishment of university centres, which could not be retained in the text of the decree, since the law on higher education did not know the concept. In any case, we will be working at the Liberal Democracy Club in order to join the joint project of the University of Primorska in New York and the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport. In the search for appropriate solutions and in the design of wider organisational forms, it is likely that the law on higher education and cooperation in the local community will need to be amended accordingly. With these concerns and different views on the head office of the University in the LDS, we believe that the first step in solving this issue is the adoption of the proposed decision and in the subsequent upgrade of the decision, as well as the regulation of these issues. The above-mentioned controversy should not preclude the establishment of a coastal university. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we support the adoption of the decree, together with the amendments adopted by the Committee, with the exception of the amendments of the Committee to Articles 3 and 29, where three coalition parties have tabled new amendments, which are only editorial in nature. In the amendments to Articles 29 and 30, we fill a gap that could arise at the start of the operation. From the date of entry into the Registry of the University takes over all employees employed in institutions. This amendment is also consistent with the contents of the amendment to Article 30, which discusses the takeover of students. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We will now hear debates between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Franz Lenko has the floor. Here you go! [[You don't want to.]] Mr. Puksich, he's not here. Mr. Aurelio Juri, not either. Mr. Roberto Battelli, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. All these differences, which are present in relation to the possible only seat of the university in bilingual area, are worrying and, in my opinion, almost entirely unnecessary. However, I would ask, at the end of the vote, if the amendments that have been tabled are to be adopted, also by the three coalition parties, so that the National Assembly can authorize the legislative and legal services of the Editorial Service, as I would say, the Italian titles of the Faculty and the other members of the current members of the Uwerza in Primorska. With regard to the title "litorale" for Primorsko, I must inform the assembly that this term has been used by the Italian national community since before. It says, "littoral" is in our use of titles, names and so on, which concern Slovenia, which we are an integral part of, since always in use. "Litorale" is the same thing as "coastal". Now, if you'll excuse me for just one second. As suggested, it says, "University della 'Primorska' ".. This would be the same as assuming that there would be bilingualism in Trieste--I hope it will be one day, but it's not this moment--it would be the same as if on that board it said 'University in Trieste. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. When I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, I spoke in general about this policy to the University of the Sea, or to the Third University, which we are establishing by this decree. In doing so, I would also like to say some of my thoughts, my feelings, when I actually live along the national border in the Slovenian space. I think this limit is going to expand quite a bit next year. For when the state border falls, the Sami or present Slovenians along the Channel Valley, Rezija, Venice, Goriška, Tržaška, will also somehow move into the same framework as us in the European Union. Oh, but! When we spoke earlier that we received the first two universities in Ljubljana in 1919 and Trieste in 1921, that we Slovenians wanted the university before World War I, we do not care that we wait so long with an increased number of university centres. You say that this name should not be used, and then we will say universities in the Slovenian space. We have a whole range of universities around us in Slovenia. It is true that at the time I studied alone, we had the most professors who studied in Vienna, Prague and later in Belgrade and also in Verona. Only later after World War I did we get universities that also gave professors at universities in Slovenia. If I continue, River, Zagreb, Budapest, Gradec, Celovec, Videm, Gorica, Trieste. Everyone has universities. These universities are less distant from the Slovenian student, except Budapest, than the far-off university in Ljubljana from the students in Upper Posoč. Tolmin - Ljubljana 100km, Bovec - 40 km more. It's 140 kilometers. How close will the university in Trieste, Vidma, not to say in Novi Gorica, which is just across the street. That's why I've always said all these six years that we're late to set up a university that's going to be in Primorska. I cannot and will not accept any explanation that the cost of schooling is too great for us to have too much schooling costs in this country. In Del, May 28, 2001, there was a fine article on how many universities Slovenia needs and how many of them can. According to this article, Finland has 20 universities. On the Internet, we found a personal ID card for Finland, which has 5.1 million inhabitants, $19,000 of national income [[Slovenia 15]] and that the real growth of gross domestic product is 2.5. And we say we're going to have 3.2, if we're lucky, even 3.5. They have only 26% higher national income, but ten times more universities than we have - 20. So that he can't make excuses, that the study is expensive, and that we're giving too much for knowledge. They're putting it somewhere else. This ID says even more that they have inflation 0.7. Then let's make sure we have the same. Unemployment is 16.6. But I think this is a conversation we're going to have on some other occasion. So I would like to reject the claim that in Slovenia studies are too expensive for the country. It's too expensive for students, not for the state. In addition, this article, in May 2001, also speaks of Iceland, with 250,000 more universities. So let's follow these people, not by what we think is too expensive and we can't have As I said at the outset, Koper, Sežana and Nova Gorica are understandable to us, Primors, that we should have universities or universities, colleges. It can't be that we're going to have a college in another country closer than we have in our own country. And the next - I hope that Mr Minister will not be too hard on me - when he promised - and he was also quoted several times when the decree would change later and new universities would be created. Yes, we have also adopted in this Chamber a law on restructuring, banning the production and sale of asbestos products and on the acquisition of working age and compensation for asbestos patients in Salonito Anhovo. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, but we don't respect him. And when I turn to 509 patients who have not yet come to appreciate, because in the government we have not spent enough money to be able to examine them and also eliminate them with adequate compensation, I fear that the current promises of a large number of coastal universities are too much in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of an important decision, I can say with such a strong expression, a historic event for our country, and especially for the coastal region. We're creating a coastal university, a new hub of ideas and a knowledge chest. At the threshold of the third millennium, by establishing a new university, we consolidate and exploit the geopolitical and social role of Primorska for the benefit of not only the Primors but all citizens of Slovenia. It is time for Slovenia to gather all its wisdom, strengthen the knowledge of the Slovenian border space and set a starting point for equal entry into the common European space, by strengthening the status of its northern university, the University of Maribor, and by establishing a new university in Primorska. The creation of higher education in Primorska is in the public interest and is joined by the economy and local communities, which have already shown the importance of knowledge. The creation of centres of development and research and higher education at this end of Slovenia will not be successful if we do not know how to integrate them into the process of creating added value and align them with the needs of a network of entrepreneurial activities, which will increase national competitiveness, increase individual and social quality of life and strengthen entrepreneurship and the ability to innovate and create a comprehensively innovative environment. The border space is in constant contact with foreign knowledge and must therefore find areas where it is the best option to build such an innovative environment. The experience of countries and landscapes that have developed such an environment shows that one of the key factors is the transfer of knowledge from universities and research institutes in the economy. This means that Primorska must take advantage of research potentials in the field of humanities, Mediterranean agriculture, technology, transport and information technologies. Young researchers and experts must obtain this university for new development cores in large companies, as well as in the enterprise networks I mentioned earlier. The models of the University's organisation cannot be taken over blindly, nor can cooperation be imposed on those who do not see themselves in such a university. Each space has its own spatial, social, cultural, geographical and ethnic specificities, which define its development and possibilities. Therefore, I think it is a shame that not all existing higher education and research potentials were included in the creation of the new University of Primorsk for various reasons, which were also a little limited here, but a controversy that does not have much in common with the size of the project. The door is, of course, open and I am sure that, when new programmes are created, they will find their equivalent place as well as the Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport and other institutions. I will also discuss further the amendments relating to the future centre or rectorate of the university itself, but hereafter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. As Ambassador of Primorska, I strongly support the proposal to establish a university in Primorska, which we have been demanding for decades. For Central Slovenia, which has a long-standing university centre in Ljubljana, and Styria with the University of Maribor, it is high time for us to get the University of Primors. That is why we take this project very seriously and we want it to cover the expectations and needs of people from all over Primorska in the long term. This case has been going on for years, at least since the new state and so far, the seed has not fallen to fertile soil. This was also said in the time of the Bajuk government, etc. Now I'm going to say, thank God we've reached the final stage of the indus, or the first stage of the establishment, and that this university will once live. Mr. Bevk said one of them abstained on the board. That was me. I abstained because things weren't clear to me. And even today I'm not as clear as I should be. In front of these so-called sea breezes, which have been present all the time, and are still present disturbs me. I was Mrs Chokov when she said on that committee that Politechnik didn't want any cooperation, and we heard that here today, too, then somehow replicated with the data I have from Politechnik that it doesn't hold that they've been invited so many times that they never came. They say otherwise. Okay, that's so much, in the knowledge that no one's going to rely too much on this information. The coastal or northern coastal mayors three months ago, let us hope that they seriously settled down and discussed the problem. I asked them why they talked themselves, why they didn't invite anyone else who could say anything, why they didn't invite the seaside Members, because we're going to have to speak for them, decide for them, etc. That is why I asked the two representatives who were on the committee, the Speaker and the Mayor of Gore, to refer the coastal mayors, the Members of the sea, the Minister of Education and Politechnika as soon as possible. That's what they did, and it was last Friday that they invited all of these, except Politechnics. Mayors attended, unfortunately only two Members, Bevk and I were there, just like last year, when we were also invited by all the maritime MPs to Politechnika, and we were, whether it was just a naked coincidence, including Bevko, alone. Is this also the right attitude of Members to this problem? I don't think so. Because I can't believe we were just two and twice ready, and we went to talk about others being so terribly busy that they couldn't. And now that we were in Lower Idria on Friday, they said that there were no other excuses besides two, and also that the minister didn't apologize, I don't know. So also by Parliament, I think that the relationship needs to be rectified on this issue. We could have a different conversation today. Nor did the mayors of the sea say that they are against this decree, as a decree that it is a coastal university, thank God that it is and that they support it. Only that the problem of Nova Gorica is always neglected. Currently, there are so many students in Cyprus and there are so many fewer students in Nova Gorica and so on, but these are the facts. But the proposal to move to Sežana is meant for the future. Since Nova Gorica has great potential, the vastness of the Soča valley itself to Triglav and also across the border would be welcome for Slovenian foreigners. That thought was also expressed by Mr Minister on the Committee when he said that the university was meaningless if we did not have students from Italy as well. Hand to heart, this potential will be more bound to Nova Gorica than to Koper. So in the coming years, I think this balance is going to come because now it's the weight of all of this in downtown Kopra. The development of Sežana itself, Sežana accidentally fell because it was somewhere between Novo Gorica and Kopro. I think there's a great potential for it to develop. Given that the Schengen border will also move and so on, there the terminal remains empty, this could also be used. Okay, we'll talk about this later. By talking about the future. Now, as far as the university and the New Gorica Politechniki are concerned, that's not true either, at least that's what they told me they weren't interested in. They say that they are very interested and that they do not care where the rectorate is going to be at the moment. And it's also normal that there's a rectorate in Cyprus right now. So they're not even burdened with it. And I hope that now that this thing moves on, I will lay down my heart to the Minister that, given that we cannot now talk about the centre, about the seat in Cyprus, that those legal brakes should open because they told me, they taught me that there is no legal basis that we can now talk about any seat and I don't know what else. If it is necessary to make the law on higher education change, to get it on the wallpaper as soon as possible, and then we will also solve the problem of the University of Primorska in parallel. I want and we want these to be two equivalent centres, as far as Kopra and Nova Gorica are concerned. And that's why I'm going to stand up for myself and represent the positions of the coastal mayors. It has also been said that the mayor of the sea is being unserious all the time, all the years so far. I think now, the current mayor, that there are new faces that must think differently than their predecessors. And I hope that there will be some consensus and that this problem will finally be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. In any event, the establishment of the university is one of the major national projects, which are expected to be carried out in agreement with the population to which the university is intended. These are not only the inhabitants of the coastal municipalities, but also the mountainous region. And as we have been informed, it has not been possible for the government to prepare in many years to find a coordinated proposal. A coordinated proposal that would, however, satisfy the needs of Goriška. Again, we find that, in fact, we are unable to find consensus in the planning of major national cases. The same is true of others, not to mention, in fact, only bitter taste. Of course, we cannot vote against the establishment of a university, but if we could vote on such a procedure, with such incompetence on the part of the trainers, we could of course gladly press the right button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, of course, I will also support the decision on the establishment of the University of the Sea, in particular because of the three important objectives that we achieve by establishing this higher education institution or university, in view of the qualityer network of higher education and the strategic objectives already set out in the national programme. In view of the increased regionalisation of both higher education and economic and social life in general, it is not necessary to stress that the university is also a generator of some general social development of a particular area, as well as, of course, the importance of establishing this institution in the light of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. A few more words I would like to point to the possible hottest topic in the establishment of this coastal university, at least in recent times, and which has also been touched by other debaters, i.e. the possibility of creating several higher education centres within this university and, of course, the establishment of the university headquarters in Primorsk. At the time of his appointment, Mr Minister said, and I would like to point out that at the time we had a motion for a decree already in Parliament, it was confirmed by the government. He then directed two possible variants of the establishment of the University of the Sea. The so-called variant A and variant B. So after variant A, we quickly proceed with the decision, briefly speaking, and after variant B, we would wait by decree and try to reach consensus and attract other higher education institutions that have not been included in this phase, and create more higher education centres across Primorska. Let me point out that there was, I would say, a general consensus of coastal Members, as well as of other Members, as well as of most local communities, the public, so that the decision should be taken as soon as possible and that the University of the Sea is set up as soon as possible. And this decree is also due to this conscious decision, which was taken both in the coalition and favoured by other parties. We also received an opinion in Parliament's decision-making process on the table, an expert opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which found that, for legal reasons, the creation of more higher education centres in Primorsk was not sustainable. And the amendments adopted by the Committee, and this form of decision, are due, i.e. to the legal form of the problem, or to the desire that the decision be corrected legally. On the one hand, we have broad support and the desire of all parliamentary parties, as well as the ministries, to form an all-sea university with multiple higher education centres and to actually make this university an all-shore university, and on the other hand, we are faced with the difficulty of adopting a decree, which will also be amended from a legal point of view. And the consequence is that today we can adopt such a decree as I said, which, together with the amendments of the committee, will be a package as it will be, and will therefore not take into account the placement of more higher education centres. However, as I mentioned at the time, the Minister also announced the scenario under scenario A, so this decision can be supplemented. And I think that we have made the right decision, however, that it is better than delaying the adoption of the decision, because the adoption of the decree and the establishment of the University of the Sea could distance ourselves into an indefinite future, that it is better, however, that we adopt the decision as it is. And we were all united today that as soon as possible - and the minister had already announced the deadline for this to happen, it is said, before the summer - we should hurry through the amendment of the law on higher education and the amendment of the decree and, for the first time, foresee the establishment of several higher education centres, reconsider the more appropriate placement of the head office of the University of the Sea and that this decree would be just the way we want it to be. Amendments to the Higher Education Act are necessary both for the creation of more higher education centres and for the very competence of higher education centres. We know that over the long years of negotiating and discussing the establishment of a coastal university and pursuing the goal of this university actually being an all-shore university, the question of what competences these higher education centres will have has been raised many times. And that would indicate in the law and consequently also in the decree to put and adopt, of course, as soon as possible. It will therefore be necessary for both the Ministry and all higher education institutions as well as local communities to cooperate. In any case, today we are legally establishing a coastal university, but in fact this coastal university will be all-shore when we adopt the amendments to the decree, and I hope that this will be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, please, Mr. Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u38	Madam Leader, I would actually have a procedural proposal or a question of the following content. Mr. Tercheon is not on the list of speakers in the debate. Yesterday and several times there was a case - yesterday I personally missed my turn, a few minutes and I failed, although there was enough time, to join the debate. I accepted this as the legality of the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking if it's a different way of dealing now, and we can get involved later or not. If so, I would ask you to confirm this so that we can act in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I have consulted and the explanation is that he has mistakenly fallen off Mr Terčon's list; he has been reported for discussion and also Mr Marsic. Mr Mamića is not on the list either, but since he has been notified of the amendments, let me point out that the fact that individual debaters report to the debate does not affect the joint time notified by the Group of Members. This is said to be in the context of a general debate or of individual amendments, in fact, to apply this common time. The reason that people aren't listed on your list is a mistake. It is indisputable, however, that there is a need to take note of the debate in the context of the general debate. Thank you very much. Now he has the word, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are ahead of an important decision, or before making an important decision. The third "alma mother", the coastal university, represents an important step towards ensuring the unity of the Slovenian state, in the rounding of the country's functions, while all the vital functions of the country are also decentralised and all parts of Slovenia have equal opportunities. The specific historical position of Primorska within the Slovenian national space gives particular importance to this university. This university is established in the territory, part of the Slovenian territory, which has mostly changed state authority, political systems, rulers, dictators and type of authority. Of course it's in the territory that was at the end of the II. World War II or even beyond the criminal rapal border. The fact that she was conscious of Primorska, a conscious outside of the womb, happened, of course, because of incompetence immediately at the end of II. The world war of the then Ljubljana government, which was unable to organize similar activities as was organised by General Maister in Maribor, Styria and Koroška. When I mention the incompetent former Ljubljana government, I hope that the current Slovenian authorities will not act as a Ljubljana government in relation to the seaside university. That it is not just more or less a letter on paper that will not fully and completely come to life. For such concerns and warnings to the Slovenian public, of course, I have some indications which were obvious and which should also be clarified before the Slovenian public. Indeed, many agree and have been so informed that the withdrawal of Minister of the Czech Republic was needed mainly because of the fact that the development of the University of the Sea could be put into reality for some time. Because Minister Chokova, and she has to admit that, in this regard, she was a great local patriot, but also a patriot of course, a great advocate, and I am sure that she would also fight very hard to make this decision come true. The other thing that leads me to this is that the new finance minister took a decisive stand on the sides of the Saturday Annex against the establishment of the Third University in Primorsk just before becoming a finance minister. I hope that within the government, within the coalition, they have clarified their attitude towards the University of the Sea, that this is not happening in the same way as it has been in recent times in relation to Slovenia's accession to the NATO alliance, when newspapers today state that 26 Members of the ruling coalition are not intimate for this entry. This duality within the authority must be interrupted. You must perform openly before the Slovenian public and the Slovenian people. In doing so, I point out the crucial political importance of the establishment of this university. The establishment of this university is delayed, especially due to the extreme political importance and real importance for the development of the University of the Sea as a generator of general development. See, this is where the Slovenian state captivates even after what the Vatican is aware of under the present pope, which has rounded up the Koper diocese in time, a matter of political importance. He rounded up the Slovenian bishop region. For the bishops were in the past also the generator of the university study. Our power and our country is captivating, and because of the great political importance of this university, it is also an important and important seat of the university. I think it'd be smart and useful, and I think it would be kind of like being in the center of Primorska. It seems to me that this proposal for Sežana is both realistic and useful and from a political-national point of view. The University of Primorska is of great importance to the whole of Slovenia and will, above all, offer an extraordinary scientific and research backdrop for the coastal economy. However, I think it will also be an important generator for strengthening national pride and also, I hope, in some way, the domestic education of the young generation, which too often - I must say that I am sometimes quite surprised that some young people who went through high school from national radio every day do not appear to advertise with Slovenian greetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. And also the last notified debater in the general debate, Mr Kelemina. Mr Kelemina, you have been reported as part of the general debate. You don't want to? Thank you very much. Does he want a word with a representative or a representative of the government? Yes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u42	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to try to explain in a few words some of the issues that are being raised in today's debate. I would like to make it clear that when we talk about university centres, it does not show this concept to be replaced by the concept of individual colleges or colleges. Even when we propose - and if we only find an agreement in Primorska that shows that this is necessary - we will do so - so when we propose a change of law, we will not propose that every high school become a university centre. And I would ask if we could have this in mind - and say it here now, so that there will be no special surprise later - a certain number of higher education institutions, with a certain number of programmes and a certain number of students and students can only count on it to form a rounded whole that could start with financial and organisational autonomy. And when I'm talking about the need to round up the University of Primorsk, I mean that. This university presents, as has already been said, an opportunity for citizens and citizens, an opportunity for space and an opportunity for institutions. It also represents an obligation, and I am speaking on purpose now specifically of obligations. It represents the State's obligation to monitor its development, constitutes the State's obligation to adequately support it and, of course, to act rationally when it comes to its organisation. It also represents the obligation of institutions in this area, which, if they want to act on the outside and also on the inside as strong institutions, something that the space can bring something and, as entities that can also be established in the international space, must join forces. The country can't do them instead, the country can't force them into it, and neither will they. Therefore, if there is readiness in the room for this integration, if this integration is also supported by the municipalities, then it can be counted on that we will be dealing with this again in Parliament. We will invest our powers in this rounding and upgrade. But I say in this place that, of course, I think that the bulk of the responsibility for the part I was talking about lies outside the responsibility of the State in the space. If Primorska deals primarily with the question of where this university will be based, and much less with other issues, then it is already on track to waste this development opportunity. I hope not, and I hope that we can talk here in the spring or before the holidays about supplementing this decree. So much for this general debate. Thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We will now turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.1.2003. We also received amendments, namely the three parliamentary groups: the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, the United List and DeSUS to Article 3 and to Article 29 and Article 30 and the amendment to Article 3. There's no sign of them. We will discuss each article and amendments tabled to it and then vote on the amendments to it. First, I shall put to the debate and decision Article 2 and the four amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which is identical to the amendment under 2 which is proposed by Mr Mamić. With the footnote, if the amendment is adopted under 1, the amendments below 2, 3 and 4 are irrelevant. As a third amendment to the amendment of the Committee, the proposed member group of the Italian and Hungarian national communities and under the four amendments of the Committee. I am opening a debate on these amendments and the article. Let me just remind you that the debate is, of course, possible within the time available to the parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First, on the amendment referred to in the review to Article 2 under order number 1. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 8 votes against 36. [[The vote was put to the vote (.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that amendments under 1 and 2 have not been accepted. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 16 votes against 29. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment to the committee has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3. We will first decide on an amendment that is not under review. This is the amendment of the three groups of Members to Article 3, which is corrected and excluded by an amendment which we have in our review under order number 1. This amendment is proposed by the Committee. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr Battelli, I'm afraid you've already overstepped your time as a member. Procedural proposal, Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I have a procedural question. I didn't track the fact, did we or did we not vote on the amendment to the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u45	Mr Battelli, we have voted on the amendment to an amendment committee that has not received support. First, we voted together on the amendments under one and two because they are identical. Then we voted on the amendment to the amendment under order number 3, which did not receive support, including the amendment under one and two, and finally the amendment under 4, which was the only one who received support from the applicants, to Article 2. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 3. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are therefore voting first on the revised amendment to Article 3, of which the LDS, the United List and DeSUS are the candidates. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against no one.]] . I note that the revised amendment to Article 3 has been adopted and thus has become the amendment of the Committee irrelevant. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the four amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee, with the remark that if adopted, all the following amendments to this Article will be irrelevant. The amendment under 2 is the proposed amendment under 2 by the SLS Group, under 3 by Mr Mamić and under 4 by the SNS Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment of the Committee under 1. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. This has made all the following amendments to this Article irrelevant. I shall put Article 5 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put paragraphs 6 and 3 of the amendment to this Article into discussion and decision. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee, explaining that if this amendment is adopted, the amendments under two and three will be irrelevant. The amendment is proposed by the Novi Slovenije parliamentary group, under the three members of the Slovenian People's Party. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the amendment under points 2 and 3 irrelevant. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 58 present, 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. At 55, 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 18 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of the Committee, with a footnote, if adopted, will be an amendment under order number 2, whose proposer is the SLS Group of Members, irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. 59 present, in favour of 53, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I find that the amendment under number 1 has been adopted, so the amendment under number 2 has become irrelevant. I am putting Article 24 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Under number 1, the amendment of the SLS Group, with a footnote, if adopted, will be the amendment under point 2, the proposed amendment of which is the Committee for Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, irrelevant. By noting that the amendment under number 1 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Articles 25 and 31 and the amendment under Articles 25 and 29. I'm opening a debate on two amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making, first of all, the amendment under 2. We're voting. 63 present, in favour of 10 votes against 47. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the amendment under 1 has not been adopted, so the amendment of the Committee to Articles 25 and 31 – pardon, the SLS Group – becomes irrelevant. We are now moving on to an amendment decision under number one. We're voting. At 56, 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 25 and just one more amendment to this Article. Under 1 the amendment has become irrelevant, we decide and we discuss only the amendment under order number 2, the proposal is a committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] Therefore, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 48 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment to Article 25 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 26 and the amendment of the Committee to this Member. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put Article 28 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am moving on to a debate and decision on Article 29 and the two amendments to this Article. In just a few minutes, I would like to interrupt the session to take a look at the contents of the amendment to Article 29, which is on a special sheet and is not under review. It is an amendment of three parliamentary groups and an amendment of the committee under review. The amendments shall be mutually exclusive. Before that, the adoption of the amendment to Article 24, in order number 2, was substantively linked to the amendment under review. Allow me just a moment to get the services to check that these amendments are excluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u46	We will now vote on the amendment to Article 29, which is not under review and whose proposer is the three parliamentary groups. If this is adopted, the amendment we have in our review becomes irrelevant. And a link that was previously announced at reception 24. Articles shall ensure that any acceptance of this amendment is made in accordance with this Article. We are therefore discussing these two amendments and Article 29. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I therefore conclude the debate and first vote on the amendment to Article 29 of the three groups of Members. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment of the three groups of Members has been adopted. This has made the amendment of the review committee irrelevant. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 30 and the amendment of the three parliamentary groups which you do not have under review to Article 30. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 30. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 30 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 31 and just one more amendment by 31. Article 1 of the amendment to the Committee under order number 1, since the amendment under order number two has become irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We therefore held a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Now we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision establishing the University of Primorsk as a whole. Vote explanation, Mr. Drobnič, please
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Allow me to explain my vote on this decision establishing the University of Primorska. I am glad that this decision has taken place in Slovenia. And I don't think there's any dilemma in this, that we don't support this, this good initiative. But it's up to us now, not so much on us, but those who are in charge of implementing it to really pull it off. That it will not happen as it did with some projects, the Oncology Institute or the Paediatric Clinic and other projects. Not only do we get a virtual project, but we get a real project. Therefore, the obligation is, in particular, to implement, to provide the necessary resources and to ensure the technical means and will to do so. That is why I appeal to the government and to the ruling coalition to ensure that all this is done. I will therefore vote in favour of this decree because it probably opens a new chapter in this education in Slovenia. It's the right thing to do. And Slovenia will in particular be able to compete with knowledge. I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Battelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this decree. At the same time, I am procedurally proposing that the legislative and legal service carry out an editorial task for translations in Italian. All titles, including Primorska, which by political decision precludes the Italian name Primorska. In the Italian language, Primorska is "Litorale". There is no political decision to erase names that exist. And I ask that, procedurally, this be put to the vote, that the Law and Legal Affairs Service review and complete all the Italian titles, because they are, some are wrong, and by political decision, the title that is in the Italian language was simply deleted. The Italian language is Primorska "Litorale". If they are Venice Venice, there is no political decision to say that Venice is called otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. The drafting is carried out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly to the extent that it is empowered to do so, and I advise you to contact them and, if it assesses, it will make corrections. Otherwise, it is in fact a non-essential initiative to vote on the conduct of the legislative and legal service, which must edit all the texts in order to vote on it. An assessment of what an editorial is, of course, is entirely their competence. Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? Mr. Bevk. Here you go. Then Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the decision to establish a university in Primorska, including by ensuring that Minister Gabra proposes to amend the law on higher education for parliamentary holidays, as well as this decree. The aim of the new university must be, as I said earlier, to cover the entire Primorska and not only the higher education institutions on the coast, but also the rest, including Goriška. I will therefore vote in favour of the proposed decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u52	Voice explanation, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. I'll support this decision myself. Above all, I have the motivation to believe that this is indeed a real step towards decentralisation of our country. On the other hand, I think and expect that the steps that are predicted and necessary for realisation will be as quick as possible, because I remember what problems we had in Maribor before we got to higher school for the first time and so on. I will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u55	I also express my support for this decree. This is, as colleagues have already said, an important step in complementing learning opportunities and acquiring adequate education for our young population. At the same time, I am joining the call made by my colleague Battelli to edit, however, with the help of not only one official translator, but perhaps more – all the misunderstandings surrounding the translation have also been caused by possible carelessness and carelessness in obtaining the official translations themselves. You know, in Slovenia, so much for information, there are some geographical names, including regions that have their Italian craftswoman, to mention Koroška and Styria, as well as Primorsko. And because it serves, the use of the Italian dictatorship, only the registration of this institution - otherwise I have already suggested on the committee that it would be best not to even deal with the Italian version of these names if we could do it in the statute, but because the decree is the founding act with which you also make the appropriate registration, we had to introduce it. Of course, it is right to introduce such a translation. That is why I call, like Battelli, for once again the official title in Italian of Primorska to be obtained in the editorial, and this is incorporated into the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić, an explanation of the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u57	Unlike the statement made on the committee, when I publicly abstained from voting, I did not change my mind - just to clarify that no one will think that someone has wronged me or convinced me that I will now speak differently than before - thinking is of course the same. But I'm for pouring pure wine. And now I hope that we have poured half a glass of pure wine and that in the next phase we will pour it to the top and then we will toast it with pure wine. So I support the decree in every way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. First of all, these own names should be settled, already on the committee, but you were not willing, and even now, what has been put in them has not been made with sufficient care, since in Article 3, we also have a name in Italian, “Instituto della Primorska di sienza naturali”, has not been regulated. And that's why I would specifically ask if we were to go to that conclusion so that those who would just rector the testicles would not literally lecture because it's their own names. That we don't have what I know about the Institute of Ivan Cat, but they have "Instituto di Giovanni di Gatto" or something like that, in this case. Colleagues and colleagues, I thank you. Indeed, this debate was at a respectful height in this decision and, given what we have said, I would call on the botts and all the botts to vote in favour of this decision and to allow all the Primors unanimously to receive their university after so many years of living in a common country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Marsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will vote in favour of the decree, reminding you that it would also be good to thank all those who have participated in this project for many years, both Minister Gabru and his team earlier and now as well as Dr Lucia Chok and the people who have participated in higher education and research institutions from all over Primorska in the composition of this project. At the same time, at the same time, local communities, which have enabled them to provide material conditions for the functioning of the future university by way of their resignation, and to all those who have also provided financial resources in the budget for the functioning of this university, which I do not think is a fear that this university would have no material basis and would be a virtual story, but it will be a university that can compete in the competition of knowledge in Slovenia and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Look, I'm not voting for this ruling. Simply because it seems to me that we are all forgetting one aspect together, and this is this national aspect in which we have deliberately or reluctantly shuddered with the establishment of a bilingual university in a nationally sensitive area. I'm not voting for this because I think it's one thing to romanticize in this space. This is a very problematic matter from this point of view. I think that we should establish in this area as a counterweight of a pure Slovenian university, so now it will happen that someone who will study at the Faculty of Piran will also have a certificate from Maribor or from somewhere else and all the other documents will be bilingual. I think that on the other hand, the borders have never been and will never be as broad-minded as we are at the expense of the Slovenia and the romance account that we have opened the door to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of vote and are now moving to a vote on the proposal for a decree establishing a university in Primorska. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW - A CERTIFICATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The 25th Extraordinary Meeting did not adopt the proposed decision of the Home Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. Therefore, a proposal for a law which you have received has been prepared by the home committee. He would like a representative of the government to give the floor to further explain the bill. Minister of Health Dr. Dusan Keber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u65	Madam Vice-President, Madam Members and Members of Parliament! The European Union Directive provides and gives everyone the right to a minimum of 11 hours of rest each day, specifying as an exception those activities which must ensure continuous work for all 24 hours. This solution has also provided for our Labour Relations Act, which allows for regional legislation to resolve this square circle differently from this basic provision. This is a conflict of two rights: the right to uninterrupted healthcare, which all citizens have and which is above the right to rest every day. That is why we have already extended the working time for doctors in the June law. By the end of the year, as you know, the estimated 24 hours in the view of the smaller part of the health facilities were not sufficient, so we have prepared the option ahead of you for 32 hours of continuous work before the start of the rest. Of course, we can only afford this because the medical service law specifically defines a duty that is not defined by the Labour Relations Act. For on-call service includes both effective and ineffective hours and very ineffective hours, i.e. theoretically permissible rest and so on, allowing a health worker, in this case a doctor, to rest even in those 32 hours. The postponement of the debate in December to January has been used by the Ministry of Health to hold another round of discussions with all interested parties, with a view to saying the following. We have reached broad agreement with the content of the proposed solution that is before you today. We have explicitly supported or signed statements by most Slovenian directors saying that the current solution makes it possible to resolve this problem and that they fully support it. And there is still a disagreement between medical organisations that believe that this area should be resolved only in a collective agreement and that it should not be a matter of law. The opinion of our legislative and legal services is that this area needs to be resolved, or much more appropriate, in the law, because it is not only the relationship of the employer and the employee, but it is the relationship where the invisible third partner takes place, and these are all citizens of Slovenia. The version differs from the December one before you, which we have put aside to date, into important things, and we think it is a substantively important realization that it is necessary to allow a healthcare worker who is subject to a greater obligation by the State to decide on this on a voluntary basis. Therefore, the solution, which is identical to the previous one, is that a doctor who has been burdened for more than 16 hours with continuous work will decide on a surplus of up to 32 hours on a voluntary basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the home committee's rapporteur? Chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I welcome you all, Mr. Secretary in charge. In view of the rejection by the home committee of this decision by the State Assembly at its December vote on the proposed decision relating to the examination of this law, the draft law was also discussed and prepared for plenary decision in accordance with the rules of procedure of the home body at its 27th regular meeting. In doing so, it should be stressed that, in addition to the members and members of the committee, a representative of the proposer, Dr Dušan Keber, Minister of Health, representatives of the Fides trade union, representatives of the Medical Chamber and, of course, representatives of the Association of Public Health Institutions of Slovenia were also involved. In this regard, it should also be pointed out that, above all, representatives of public health institutions have supported the solution, as brought by the novels or this proposal for a law amending the Law on Medical Services. Now, from the same point of view, those who are ultimately responsible, at least in the title of the heads of the institutions, are responsible for the exercise of the legality of the institution. The representatives of Fides and representatives of the Medical Chamber have, of course, confirmed the fact that they have been asserting for a long time that they do not oppose the increased scope of medical care, doctors, but would rather see that this need is regulated through a collective professional contract. The debate also highlighted the need for more comprehensive changes to be made under the Health Act, in view of the health situation in the health sector. In the context of the debate and decision on the articles and amendments submitted, the Committee rejected the amendment of the Committee member Dr. Franc Tsukjat to Articles 1 and 2 and drafted its amendment to Article 1 in cooperation with the proposer. That's all. The hall is beautiful.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we believe that this matter is right, this substance is regulated by law. As we also participate in the working body of the mother, this is to the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, where this topic was very hot and very thorough from all angles of view. But the fact remains: on the one hand, citizens are exposed, in the event of illness, and exposed and committed to health care, in their care, in their care. Every doctor and employee or worker, a medical professional, volunteered for his profession and realized that each profession had certain beautiful, sunny sides, as well as certain shaded, negative ones and took them into account. Here we face the basic problem that the doctor who decided on this profession, also due to a certain human gesture, because health care, care for the patient, health care is also an issue of humanity from the old Greek history onward. We believe, and therefore we will vote in favour of this law to settle matters, although we are aware that everyone will certainly not be most pleased. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much again for your word. In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a complementary proposal for a medical service law, as the report of the parent working body does. The fact that we are aware of the need to establish the situation here too - as it was established with 1.1 - is not good and needs to be remedied in some way as soon as possible. However, this novel does not cure him as much as patients might expect. Not only in the medical service, the state of the business as a whole is as acute as it has been in recent days, and we are also somehow informed by patients when they experience traumatic days in our clinics for some reason or similar. I therefore think that in any case, the Ministry, as the creator, the director policy planner, in this case health care, will serve as soon as possible with a comprehensive amendment to the Health Act, which will prevent emergency interventions that are somehow expected by both medical and other healthcare professionals and even more patients. A lot of work needs to be done, and I think it will be necessary to bring species together both in the Ministry and in public health institutions and through as genuine a partnership as possible. Of course, we support all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 1 as supported by the Home Committee sets out more precisely the working time of doctors or improves the text that was originally tabled, while also correcting the one that we may have previously confirmed with little care or too quickly. The working time of doctors is specific, both because of the nature of the work, it is said, combinations of on-calls and other work, as well as because of the deficient medical profession. The Labour Relations Act, as has been said several times before, but it is true to repeat what has recently entered into force, defines the work process in a way that is a non-life medical profession. In the case of specifics, it travels in Article 2 of a specific law which may define different solutions. These are cases where the nature of the work requires a permanent presence or continuous work provision. In short, the amendment, which we will support in our parliamentary group, specifies that the longer working hours of doctors are required to provide on-calls, to set the limit, as has already been said, so that, in order to provide on-calls, doctors can work more, continuously for a maximum of 32 hours, or in such a way that their full-time work lasts for a maximum of 10 hours on one working day and for a maximum of 16 hours. In this case, consensus is needed, which is the difference between previous solutions. In short, if I turn my back on the solutions that have particularly encouraged us to support these proposed solutions, let me say that the representatives of the Health Association as well as the clinical centre have supported these solutions. And this, as we're told, gives us additional arguments about the acceptability of a solution. Of course, even in the light of the expectations of systemic solutions promised by the government. The question raised by the representatives of the Chamber and the Trade Union that it is not necessary for the problem of working time to be resolved by the law, but for the collective agreement to be able to do so is still questionable for us, for without any specific legal interference, we would certainly be faced with only the provisions of the umbrella law on working relations, or now inappropriate resolution of the medical service law, is said to be a valid law currently in force, which would limit the room for manoeuvre even in the conclusion of the collective agreement. And if I repeat why it is only through a collective agreement for us, I say, that it is flawed. Partly because the Constitution already dictates that the rights and obligations of citizens and citizens are determined by the National Assembly only by law or by law. This is how we know that the law also regulates the specifics of the working situation in the field of education, as well as the culture when it comes to the specifics of employment for a certain period of time. However, the collective agreement is undoubtedly following the definition of an agreement whereby workers' representatives and employers' representatives agree on an appropriate level of mutual rights and obligations which, of course, produces some new labour law. At the same time, however, it is true that collective agreement can only be a complement to the basic labour law procedure or legislation. Otherwise, the Directive of the European Union, which speaks of a minimum daily and weekly rest, states that the specifics can be regulated in a sectoral law, which some European countries have decided to do. Because, with this change, I will not say, they are just being repaired, but they are being repaired, I can say, they are improving or the most appropriate is, if I say, align real situations with paper, so, with marriage, we will certainly support this proposal in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u75	Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and representatives of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Law Service! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medical Service, or amendment, which is in the public and the media, between us, Members and Members, as well as among experts, caused many controversial and critical reactions. At its 27th meeting, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the upcoming novelism and amendments proposed in the parliamentary procedure following a rapid procedure, as the timely adoption of the novel and its implementation rightly expected the smooth implementation of uninterrupted health care and emergency medical care in smaller hospitals and smaller hospital departments, as well as in health homes, in accordance with applicable laws. Representatives of the Medical Chamber, President Fidesa, representatives of Slovenian hospitals and representatives of health homes gave their opinions in addition to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members of the Committee. Most also agreed with these proposals. Unfortunately, the representative of the Health and Social Health Union could not have given her opinion in a rich debate, as it would probably be critical and contradictory in terms of resilientness and extremely controversial opinions, in particular as regards the possibility of implementing the novel in practice, with the result that working hours are allocated, either regular or on-call service, and it is also worth hearing the opinion of those who accompany and are closely associated with the work of doctors. In the United Social Democrats Group, we are aware of the importance of timely adoption of this amendment of the law and the amendment, as they will eliminate some of the illegalities. The Novela also means aligning our legislation with Directive 93-104 of the European Community, as well as aligning the Medical Service Act with the newly adopted Labour Relations Act. Despite the fact that the material is prepared and the debate itself has shown that this area is different in European countries; for example, some countries regulate it by law, some by contracts between contractors and the Ministry, or that the area is simply left to hospitals themselves, with the loose instructions of the State or the institution. We have decided to settle this area with us but to settle the law. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are aware of the fact that such a large and complex problem, which concerns everything and every individual in this country, is difficult to resolve with a universal legal norm and with regard to the diversity of hospitals and the development of hospitals in Slovenia, but at the same time we are aware that it is necessary to start somewhere. That's why we're going to support this novel and the amendment. At the same time, we expect that the next steps will be followed, as the government has also promised; namely, that negotiations on a collective agreement will continue, where there will be an agreed method of payment of work, payment of on-call service and other compensations, and where the length of leave and vocational education will be determined and professional education will be structured and broken down in its own way, taking into account, of course, all macroeconomic options of the country or [[read]] the budget. Normally, while ensuring effective management of all resources and resources available in Slovenian health care. The question is also raised whether it is possible to negotiate the functioning of the Health System, which will be necessary to open up, also needs to include the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and, of course, patients themselves in some segments, since we are not taking into account or almost forgetting the current public debate of patients and their demands. This is absurd, of course, because they are service providers. Of course, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats also expects the regulation of data on the efficiency of healthcare workers and the prudent organisation of work in public institutions by drawing up the necessary standards of health services, which are and will be the basis for fair financing and quality control of healthcare activities and services in health care. It would also be worth considering at one of the meetings of the National Assembly or the Implementation Committee and the implementation of the National Health Programme by 2004, as this would be one of the basis for the relevant decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, your honors are here! In our opinion, the issue of the current novel is not as much a matter as the July novel and the attempt to supplement the July novel is much more important. In our view, this experiment has failed or has failed, as the July novels, despite the current amendment, remain inconsistent with the Labour Relations Act. The law doesn't say anything about efficiency and ineffective, but it does say that every presence in the workplace, when the worker is available to the employer, is working time. Second. Nor does the current novel fix July and July still run counter to Council of Europe Directive No. 93-104 EC, of 23 November 1993 and by judgment of the European Court of Justice, No. C303/98 in 2000, which does not allow a different distribution of the work of doctors over full-time compared to other professions. An even more drastic deviation of the July novel takes place in the case of secondary and specialist students. The Minister's argument that the right of residents to a doctor's right to rest is - not to say ridiculous, but unrealistic. We also have other public services, such as police, firefighters, public transport, and imagine that their law would stipulate that a police officer may be on duty for 36 hours, or a driver in public transport for 36 hours, or a fireman. For this reason, we believe that the right to rest is not only the right to protect the worker, but to protect the person to whom this public service is intended. It's not about any specifics, gentlemen! Public services, as well as those responsible, are also important in other areas, not only in the field of health. The problem, therefore, is not this novel, but the June novel, which remains a conflict and which remains an object that will find its epilogue in the Constitutional Court. 41d. The article only touches on one narrow issue of the whole issue of the July novel. Unfortunately, the minister did not take advantage of the break which the National Assembly allowed him to postpone and reject the original text, nor did he use it to improve the proposal and not to harmonise with doctors. Because we're talking about the law on medical services, not the law on directors, or the law on hospitals. And because he did not find or have the courage, knowledge, or rivet to find agreement with doctors, we fear that we will not solve the problem as we should. Just one example of an oncology institute where you know that they are now working to reduce backlogs of surgery, they are also working on Saturdays and Sundays after 12 hours a day, without law, without any other coercion, but in accordance with normal, civilisation, democratic agreement and conversation, gentlemen. This conflict with doctors created by the minister with this July novel remains and we are turning around in a vicious circle that will show off its teeth, especially at a time when serious reforms in health care are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. And we are moving on to the third reading of the amended bill. The legislature and the government have not informed me that the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted would be inconsistent, so we will move on to deciding on the law. I invite Members and Members to the Chamber because we will decide on the bill. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. There are 50 of us in the hall, so I'd like to ask your attention. This is the second time we have voted on the bill. We're voting! There are 46 of us present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. And that concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for participating in the meeting. And we're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVELY SUPPORT LEGISLATION LEVEL FOR REFINANCING THE OBLIGATION OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY UNDERTAKING - urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Environment, Space and Energy Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members! This bill is one of those that could be called entirely, a proposal of a law that is completely technical in nature. It's a simple thing. Many years ago, from 1996 onwards, various companies of the Slovenian electricity industry, namely Termoelectrica Šoštanj, Thermoelectrica Trbovlje, Nuclear power plant Krško, and according to the amendments of the LDS delegation group Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, were also hired for specific purposes under the law, special law, credits for a particular investment in the electricity economy. These loans were leased under the State guarantee. At that time, in those years when they were hired, interest rates were even higher than they are today. It would therefore be possible today to pay off these old, more expensive loans by hiring new loans. And this cannot be done if we do not have a specific law that allows this new loan to be leased with the State guarantee, in order to pay the more expensive old loan with the State guarantee, and then the guarantee will be extinguished. In this way, this bill would save at least 170 million tolars a year. And in this way, these companies would have less obligations than they have when they have an indirect effect on the price of electricity - I will not talk, it is not a very large amount, but it is not insignificant. Well, that's all. However, a very unusual discussion took place on the Infrastructure Committee, which ultimately resulted in the Committee's decision to propose to the assembly that this bill should not be supported. The discussion developed under the first Article, which provides that the State guarantee will be given to Eles GEN for payment of nuclear credits, and it has been clarified that, nevertheless, it may have been overheard that Eles GEN had already taken over the loans in July with a debt withdrawal contract and was already paying them back. Therefore, of course, the nuclear power plant no longer has any credits with the State guarantee, nor does it need the State guarantee to pay old loans with the State guarantee, but this company, which is now the payer of these loans, is Eles GEN. Well, I haven't been on the Infrastructure Committee all along, because I had another international obligation. But in the end, the discussion resulted in the fact that the bill was not supposed to be adopted, which I must say is very difficult to understand, because I am sure that it does not concern any interests of business banks which, of course, do not want this law to be adopted because they have a little more inflow from interest each year than they have if this law were adopted. That is why, of course, I propose that you support the proposal for a law, including the amendments of the LDS Group of Members, which the government supports. Some of these amendments result from comments made by the Parliamentary Law Service, some of which are substantive and also relate to the extension, if I may say, of the draft law on credit with the State guarantee, which was rented by Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik in due course. The government supports all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Democratic Group of Members will not be? Thank you very much. There is no Lord Christmas. Nor is the position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Procedural proposal or explanation of vote before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u81	Mr Vice-President, I have applied for the debate on my behalf, not on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u82	There's no debate, Mr. Janc. The home working body shall propose to the assembly that it decide on the next proposal for a decision. In other words, the proposal for a guarantee law for loans hired to refinance the obligations of electricity undertakings is not a necessary procedure for further consideration and it is possible to present, under Article 134, only a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. However, you can explain your vote before deciding on the proposal for a decision, as I said, that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much. So, in our parliamentary group, we will support the decision proposed by our mother's working body. The matter is not quite as simple as Mr Resortary Minister has explained here today, Mr Mag. The digger. Many questions were raised on the Infrastructure Committee, to which members of the Committee were not given adequate answers or we did not get any answers at all. It is interesting, however, that the Government proposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, according to an emergency procedure, in the event of a fact already stated by the Magi. A digger to save about 150 million Slovenian tolars a year through this law. It is indeed a certain amount of money, but it is not such a large amount of money that we should adopt such an important law on an urgent basis. That is why we have advocated in the Committee that before this law is adopted to answer certain questions. The key issue that emerged was how Eles GEN would repay these funds, which of course is guaranteed by the State, and how this law would possibly affect the contractual relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia with regard to the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Other questions have been raised, but since I have no other option than to explain my voice, I am convinced that it would be good for the National Assembly to adopt the decision proposed by the Infrastructure Committee and that by giving the Infrastructure Committee some time to agree more thoroughly and discuss what is actually behind this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the vote of the New Slovenia Group. If no one wants to discuss any further, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a guarantee law for loans hired to refinance the obligations of electricity undertakings, the urgent procedure, is not suitable for further consideration." We are voting on this. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 31 votes against 8. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his presence. We're moving to 14. POINT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE GUARANTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR CERTIFICATE OBLIGATIONS OF 120 MILLION EUROS RECEIVED BY DARS D. D. IN THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR THE FINANCING OF THE SLOVENISH AUTHOROCEST PROJECT, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to a government representative. [[You don't want to further explain the bill.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the committee, Mr. Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee has considered that law and, without discussion, has changed the word'message' or 'public, guarantee' in all the articles of the law, so I propose that you support the amended proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kebrič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues, colleagues. In ours [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u88	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u89	In our Group of Members, we are aware that every guarantee is questionable in terms of whether you are not quite sure that the borrower will also repay that loan. In this case, as far as we know Dars, this matter is questionable. On the other hand, we are aware that each loan must be returned and paid interest. Together, however, there is always an outflow of accumulation abroad. On the other hand, we wonder how beneficial this is. Is it true that a certain loan is more beneficial for a particular matter to end - in this case, that it is quicker or at least roughly as planned, although it is already late - but that this has been weighed and we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas is not, Mr. Viceroy is not. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the amended bill. The law enforcement service, nor the government, has warned me that the law would be inconsistent, so we are moving on to deciding on the law. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to explain my vote on behalf of our Group of Members and on my behalf. Thus, quickly, according to the law that we are adopting by emergency procedure, we owe this country for 25 billion Slovenian tolls, or with all the obligations, the interest that will have to be repaid, much more. And this, of course, in the fact that we have adopted the 2003 budget, on the fact that we have also adopted the 2003 plan - the question arises to us why, therefore, such a law by emergency procedure and, as we have heard, without discussion in the Committee on the Economy. I would like to point out on this occasion that the government has been promising us the rebalancing of the national programme for over a year and that for more than two years the government has been promising us legislation that would allow for concession building, partial concession building, highway in the Republic of Slovenia. I would also like to point out that, according to our belief in this country, we owe too much to this generation to pay back. All these accepted debts are somehow accepted, with a moratorium in five years and so on, as it is counted that once the financial situation is inevitable and when it is no longer possible to borrow credit, another government, some other political option, will repay these debts that we are making today. I would also like to point out that the construction of Slovenian motorways is significantly lagging behind, that we should adopt the national programme's balance, that people in Prekmurje should also know when they will get the necessary highway or that they would not need to collect any signatures, petitions that our parliament and the government, of course, want to force them to tell them when this will happen. So it seems extremely controversial to us that such important decisions are taken in such a way, I would say, a quick way, without discussion, following an urgent procedure, with only one push on the button and we already owe 30 billion Slovenian tolars more, although the debt in this country is already enormously great at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're voting! There's 49 of us here. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives and the representative of the Government. And we're moving on to 15. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Austria on the simplification of rescue flights and search and rescue flights. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work. Does the rapporteur want a word? No, no, no. Since the parent working body has adopted no amendments under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted, and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXTS. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “A formal consolidated text of the State Prosecutor’s Office Act shall be confirmed.” We're voting! There are 50 of us present. It was 45 votes against 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “A formal consolidated text of the Consumer Protection Act is confirmed.” We're voting! There are 52 in attendance, 46 in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures is confirmed." We're voting. 49 attended, 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on victims of war violence is confirmed." Just a minute. We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The formal text of the Rail Transport Act is confirmed." We're voting. Forty-seven present, in favour of 42 votes against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture is confirmed." We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is confirmed." We're voting. 53 present, in favour of 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on pension and disability insurance is confirmed." We're voting. There are 51 present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law for the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by war or terrorism and the conditions of the guarantee for foreign air carriers shall be confirmed." We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Law on Taxation on the Profit of Legal Persons is confirmed." We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 43, against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Nature Conservation Act." We're voting. At 50, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. Proposal for a decision on the election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal on the election to the judicial function of Mr Slavk Lavdra to the Court of Justice of the Offences Judge of Gornja Radgon. Anybody want a word? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of Mr Slavko Lavdra to the judicial office of Judge for Offences at the Judge for Offences of Gornja Radgon. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Deputy Ombudsman. The Ombudsman submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Tončko Dolčič as the Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. The Ombudsman will join us, so we'll wait a moment. Dear Lord of Human Rights, Tomaž Hanžek, I warmly welcome you among us. You want a word? You don't want to. Thank you very much. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? He doesn't want a word. Representatives of the parliamentary groups? Not at all. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Tončko Dolčič as Deputy Ombudsman for a period of six years. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the assembly adopted the proposed decision and appointed Mr Tonček Dolčič as the Deputy Ombudsman. I ask Mr. Tonček Dolčič to swear before the National Assembly. At the same time, I offer you sincere congratulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u93	I swear to do my duty under the Constitution and the law, to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to carry out my work conscientiously and impartially, while respecting the principles of justice and good governance. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u94	One more honest congratulations and a successful job. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Assembly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance presented to the National Assembly a proposal for an agreement on the appointment of Mr Borut Miklavčič as Director General of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance for a period of four years. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? He doesn't want to. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Lenko, who will present Mr Školč, has the floor, please. [[...]] Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u95	We have received a written notice signed by President Kviaz, Mr Jožef Školč that we cannot deal with this matter at the National Assembly, because there has been a complication with regard to the complaint. And now I'm asking you, how come it's been so noticeable that you're going on with this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u96	Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u97	I must tell Mr Kebrich that it is true that I have sent the President of the National Assembly a proposal to postpone voting on this for reasons, because we have a letter from the President of the Assembly of the Institute claiming that this proposal is not yet legally binding. In the annex to this letter, we also have some extracts that speak first of the complaint made by the anti-candidate to Mr Miklavčič, if I am not mistaken, that the voting procedure on the Management Board has not been corrected and that the appointment of Mr Miklavčič would be irreparable and would be of great harm to the institution. Therefore, they also propose a provisional order. The Administrative Court, which is competent in this case, decided that this request for a provisional order should be rejected because it is not complete about whether Mr Cloun and Mr Židan as his guardian or whether they are qualified candidates and therefore did not decide at all. It is possible to object to this decision in three days and at the same time the administrative court has announced, or the judge of the administrative court, that it will decide on this matter in a relatively short time. In view of all this, it seemed reasonable for the President of the National Assembly to propose that this should be postponed. If he didn't put it down, of course, it's not a matter that he could insist on. Such situations, in my opinion, have not yet occurred in the National Assembly until this moment, speaking of appointments. However, there were similar situations in which someone “reputed” the decisions of the High-a-vis Council of State; in those cases, the National Assembly, if I am not mistaken, carried the proceedings forward. It must also be said that at this point the institution has a duty until somewhere in mid-May, a day more or less, this is not even a matter of which we should know. So it seemed reasonable for me to wait, as elsewhere in this decision. However, this already adopted decision or decision by the Administrative Court could be understood in such a way that there are no grounds for detention and that the State assembly can proceed with the procedure. What is essential in this matter is, of course, not a proposaler, nor a court, nor anyone else, but a congregation. The letter we received from the President of the Assembly at my request is that I interpreted it, that it would be better if it were postponed and the President was obviously not, and that is the whole story.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Školč, you have addressed this writing to the President of the National Assembly and suggest that the hearing be held at one of the future meetings of the National Assembly for the reasons you have explained. The National Assembly shall be in a situation where it has opened a point and shall have the possibility, in accordance with Article 74, to decide to postpone these matters to one of the following meetings. It is said that the decision to consider the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia is postponed to one of the following meetings - I am opening a debate on this proposal for a decision. It shall be open to the representatives of the groups of Members to make their views known. We will then vote on this proposal. The point was placed on the agenda. I propose that what Mr Školč proposed to the President of the National Assembly, so that the item is not considered and placed in one of the future meetings, I take advantage of this option in accordance with 47. I, as chairman of the Rules of Procedure, propose that the National Assembly decide to submit the item to one of the following meetings. This proposal for a decision may be put forward by representatives of the groups of Members, debate by Members and Members. The position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Mr Anderlič, then Mr Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u99	Otherwise, I don't understand why there was this complication that you didn't have this notice. For if there were reasons for postponement, I would have understood that this would have been delayed automatically, but if it was not - and it was probably embarrassing for the presidents and those who are preparing the meeting whether there were grounds for postponement or not, so you did not have this letter, and in my opinion all the reasons why the assembly should decide. When you speak in this letter about the legality of a complaint, then, of course, it may mean that regardless of what the outcome will be - that is, if it is acceptable to the applicant at this first stage, it can still appeal and, of course, delaying the decision on this issue in this way in some uncertain future, which I think is wrong and I would like to hear the secretariat or the Legal Service undisputed if there are reasons for deciding - I think that I - and, of course, in this case, I would like to explain it before your proposal for a decision. Because, as I said, I think the conditions for decision-making exist.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group, Mr Drobnič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u101	Our Group of Members will support this proposal by Mr Školč to postpone the decision-making process, things are not quite clear. In view of the fact that Drnovšk's previous government and the current government, how it appoints or disposes of these employees, and the fuckters, and has recently lost a bunch of lawsuits, which will cost the country a great deal, there is certainly no wise decision to confirm it. So, too many bad experiences by the Liberal Democracy, whose conclusions were “drived” in court. Such a proposal or those doubts are, of course, highly justified and our Group will therefore vote in favour of the postponement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, for us, there is certainly something new about what President Kviaz, colleague Školč, gave in proportion. I think it is the only moral and also wise decision of this national assembly to postpone the decision-making process to one future meeting in such a situation. There's nothing going on at this time when we're in the D.C., we're gonna leave behind all the backgrounds that are here, and nothing's gonna go down at the time this V.D. has. [[And it's just one, there's the headquarters of people who've been taking the institution for so many years.]] that we can make a full decision in peace on the basis of something that will follow these new facts. Therefore, our Group of Members will unanimously support the proposal for a decision, as you have put it, Madam Vice-President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, Mr Kebric.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. In our Group of Members, we believe when we received this notice that there is no reason for us to decide today on the appointment of the Director of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, but that we should take the time, because v.d. It's going to take a while and the office won't be without the director. On the other hand, there is no problem in avoiding any subsequent complications to postpone one of the future meetings. This is said not only to be proposed by our Group of Members, but because this proposal has already been put forward by the predecessor, we will support that we do not decide today, but that the point is transferred to one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party, we are extremely surprised that, after all the public has been informed in all possible ways, there will be no such decision today, because the legal basis for such a decision has not been met, that it is still stubborn to make such a decision. If such a decision were to take place, I must say that it is not legitimate, it would not be legitimate and a shadow of doubt and imposition would fall on such a possible election. Allow these procedures to clear up legal backgrounds, to clarify complaints legally and then come forward with this proposal. There is no rush to do anything bad if we do not execute this election or confirmation today. I don't know, but this kind of behavior gives thought and raises doubts as to what the real interests and objectives of such recruitment are, even when it is clear that there are no such conditions today, force such appointment. I hope, or I am sure, that there is no room for us to vote on this today. At the time of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, you ensured that the working bodies were decisive and that everything was decided there. Now you take full value to the president of the working body and his decision. That says you're completely inconsistent. I don't think there can be a vote, because our parliamentary group has acted, in fact it has some other obligations - most members - and now such a decision will fall at a time when even those who cover this matter will not be able to participate in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the United Nations Group of Members will be presented by Mr Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I expected these two, colleagues and colleagues, to receive a clear message on whether or not the conditions for decision-making are met or whether or not they are consistent in one case or another. And we ask that the expert opinion in this direction also be given to Members of Parliament and Members. If you can't give it this moment, then let's just get ready, and then we'll decide later. Without it, I think it is irresponsible for us to make an irresponsible decision.If this is not possible to get it directly at the meeting now, then we will propose a recess or request a recess to consult. However, I think that this point, or the debate on whether or not to decide, is ready in a way that is not yet possible to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u111	Madam Vice-President, I propose that we take a 15-minute recess to meet the leaders of the parliamentary group, the leadership of the national assembly, and above all that experts from the legislative and legal services come and explain whether we have the conditions for decision-making or not. Now we are not discussing whether or not we support the candidate or whether the conditions are met - this is a question and I suggest we meet.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session for 15 minutes. We'll pick it up at 1:45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u113	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. We're at number 17. We had a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. We have consulted and I give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor, to inform you of the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u114	Look, if anyone would ask me for any further clarifications, I'm always willing to give them on this issue. Now I'd just like to say the following. I propose to the National Assembly that today it does not decide to postpone the decision to the next meeting and that the President of the Assembly ask what the status of her letter is or what the position of the Assembly is. It's a clean decision. I propose that this is how the National Assembly votes and that we resolve this issue today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. There's no more discussion. First of all, I will make this procedural proposal for us to decide on this at a future meeting of the National Assembly, to a vote. We will decide at one of the future meetings [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u116	at the next meeting. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u117	Literally: "This proposal for a decision on the consent of the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia will be decided at a future meeting of the National Assembly." Such a proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting! There are 56 of us present, 35 votes in favour of this motion for a decision, 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The decision is taken and we will do so. We're moving on to point 17. We have before us a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing a telecommunications council. The Decision establishing the Telecommunications Council, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 56/2001 and 39/2002, is amended as follows: «Resolve Zvonko Gostiša, called Bogdan Pavlič. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal.’ Anybody want a word? If not, I shall put the motion for a decision to the vote. We're voting! There are 51 of us present, 40 votes against 4. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] The decision is adopted. The following is the decision to supplement the decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The decision appointing the members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, Official Journal 115/2002 is replaced by the text II. complete the following points: »It is referred to as a member under order number 8 Dr. Otmar Kugovnik. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal.” Anybody want a word? Nobody. Thank you. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting! There are 49 of us present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We still have a decision to amend the decision establishing the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee. Can I have some peace, please? In the decision establishing the Slovenian part of the Association Parliamentary Committee, Official Gazette 9/2001, the text of point 4 is amended as follows: «The text for the President is deleted from the text of Dr. Slavko Gaber, Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is hereby appointed President Roman Jakič, Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption by the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Nobody. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We have before us a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family and Social Policy. Decision establishing the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons [[Official Journal 109/2000 and 3/2001 and 62/2001]] in point 4, the text is replaced by the following: 'After the text 'for the President', the text 'Danica Simšič, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats' is deleted. It is appointed Vice-President Silva Črnugelj of the United List of Social Democrats. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption by the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the motion to the vote. I'm breaking up the voicemail. The result's not valid. Mag. Do you think there was something wrong with the voting device or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u118	I don't think we need to interrupt the vote because it wasn't a technical obstacle or a procedural one. I just want to warn you when we quote some text of the decision, not to be "called" [[I've said that a few times.]] Because it's a return loan, which means it's called itself. The National Assembly shall appoint or grant this status in such a manner. This is what Slovenian looks like, otherwise I call myself "Janez Drobnic is called President", which means that I myself have been called President as a monarch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you. We'll re-vote. Comrade Yaša Zląbec, you have not signed up. I will repeat the text of the decision, as it reads, as amended in the following: 'After the text 'for the Vice-President', the text 'Danica Simšič, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats' shall be deleted; it shall be called Vice-President Silva Montenegro, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats'. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. At 60, 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 17 of the agenda. We move on to the 17th A.D. - AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, ENTERPRISES OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Following is a presentation of the parliamentary positions of the groups. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Do they want words, Members and Members of Parliament? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate. According to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the Commission proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be subject to a prohibition of operations with the State, public undertakings and establishments. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." I am putting this proposal to the debate. [[Nobody.]] To the vote. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. This concludes item 17 of the agenda. The next 18 years. This is the report on the Safety and Information Services Supervisory Report for the period from 22.2.2001 to 1.9.2002, which bears the mark strictly secret, will be discussed by the assembly at a meeting without the public presence and will therefore be suspended for 10 minutes in order to prepare the assembly services for the further work of the assembly. So, I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-29-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u120	The debate is closed, including the conclusions. [[...]] May I have your attention, please? Please take your seats. We will vote by voting on the conclusions of the Commission first. We will vote under points 1, 2, 3 and 4, in the text as proposed, and then we will vote on the proposal of a group of Members with a first-signed colleague of Marsic. Can we get started? Okay. I propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposal for a decision under number 1. We're voting. 62 present, 62 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We will vote on the proposal for a decision under order number 2. We're voting. 61 present, 61 for. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We vote on the decision under order number 3. We're voting. 67 in attendance, 66 in, no in. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We will now vote on the 4th last proposal of the Commission's decision. We're voting. We vote on the text as proposed [[That's what I said at the beginning.]] . 66 present, 60 for and none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. And now we are voting on the text of the decision tabled by the group of Members with the first-signed colleague of Marsich. As the public accompanying the work of the committee is not informed of the text, I will read it: 'The National Assembly shall propose to the Commission for the supervision of the work of the security and intelligence services to obtain, before the next report, documentation concerning the so-called arms trade held by the intelligence and security services and the Ministry of Defence, and shall include in its report information on the flow and value of cash payment in doing so.' We're voting. 66 in attendance, 56 in, 4 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that we have also adopted this decision. In doing so, we have exhausted our obligations at this point in the agenda. Now we're going back to the prom law. Please, if you can take that piece of material that concerns this bill, that's 3. Daytime point, third defense. Yes, there are no government representatives. It would probably be useful if we gave the government representatives the opportunity to come to the hall for five minutes. Here I am warned in the secretariat that it has been said that we will consider this to be the last item and since it is the third reading, it is appropriate that it is therefore possible for those who are qualified candidates to do so [[...]] [[A question from the bench.]] I'm saying it's been said that we're going to consider this point the last. [[We've got two more before.]] And it's only right that we stay here. I'm sorry I wasn't paying attention to that right away. It's 5:18. I'm supposed to meet the P.O. right now. The President asked me to inform you that he will be sitting in the big salon at 6 p.m. I suggest we get back to work tomorrow at 10 a.m. The P.O.P. will meet at 6 p.m. Thank you.
