ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u1	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! Today we will continue the 30th session of the National Assembly with the 19th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law implementing the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, following a reduced procedure. We have two hours and 40 minutes to discuss this bill. First, we will give the floor to the Secretary of State, then to the leaders of the groups of Members, and finally we will move on to the debate on the articles and at 9:45 a.m. to the decision-making session. A few colleagues and colleagues are sorry, and I'm going to introduce you to this first. These are colleagues of Beumann, Jelinčič, Jerič, until 6 p.m. will not be a colleague of Kopuzar, colleagues of Moga, Partljič, Peterle will be missing all day, due to other obligations from 2 p.m. on will not be a colleague of Puck, from 16.00 p.m. to Školč, otherwise will not be with us a colleague of Vebra and colleague Orazmova. And everyone else is here today, and I welcome them again! So we're going to start at 19. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW 8. Points of decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, summary procedure. First, I will ask Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, whether he wishes to further explain the draft law tabled by the Government in the procedure? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There's a shorter law before you that regulates the matter we discussed yesterday. This refers to only one part of the decision of the Constitutional Court, namely point 8 of the decision imposing on the public administration or the government a simple part of the whole issue. This is why we have regulated this part by law, because, as we have already explained on the committee, we have also, after consulting the wider profession, both administratively and constitutionally, come to the conclusion that this matter can only be regulated by law and in this way we respect all the important principles that apply in our country. I'm not going to quote this opinion any more. As the minister said at the committee meeting, the opinion is also available to those who may not have it. Therefore, I will only briefly highlight some of the points in this short law. With the bill before you, the proposer wishes to implement the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of April this year. In this part, the Constitutional Court ordered the issuance of supplementary decisions to the Ministry of Justice on permanent residence permits already issued under the law on foreigners and the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other countries. The immediate enforcement of the obligation imposed without an adequate legal basis is not possible, as the legal opinion says, and therefore we are proposing a law. It should be noted that the proposed law does not fully implement the 8th paragraph of the decree, but only part of it. Why? Under this Act, definitive decisions on permanent residence in RS will be issued on an official basis only to those nationals of other SFRY successor countries who have been registered in the Register of Permanent Populations and who have been granted a residence permit without any relief from the granting of a permanent residence permit for the Aliens Act and also for the ZUZDD. In short, it is essential here that the law makes it possible to obtain a residence permit only for those who have already obtained a permanent residence permit and for whom this country has already found in the procedure that they have resided continuously in the Republic of Slovenia. For all those who have obtained this permission, however, after various reliefs, where it was possible for some to obtain a residence permit even if they did not stay here all the time, the second law that we discussed yesterday will apply. Therefore, such a method of enforcement was decided by the applicant because in the procedures for granting permanent residence permits under the said laws for the persons to whom the proposal relates, the actual residence has already been found to be already in fact, so it is not necessary to re-examine until such stay that the State has already established all this. This is essentially an essential solution to the law, and in all other cases, the law follows point 8, meaning that the decision regulates the residence permit back, which means, from 26. 2. 1992 onward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. The text is wanted by colleague Majda Shirca, rapporteur of the Committee on Internal Policy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly summarise the holding of the Internal Policy Committee, which met at its 39th urgent meeting on the law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. At the meeting, first and foremost, she raised questions as to whether the law was necessary at all so that the Ministry of the Interior could issue decisions without specific law on the issue of certain present ones. Government representatives and others have relied on the interpretation of the legal profession, which advocates the view that the decision must be based on a legal basis, irrespective of the fact that cases have been cited when related solutions have taken place, but on the basis of an individual decision of the Constitutional Court, this is not comparable to this situation. In this respect, this issue was soon exceeded and also concluded. The meeting also stressed that the law concerns some 4 to 5,000 persons who have obtained permanent residence permits, but from the moment of their application rather than back; therefore, before February 1992, which is regulated by the law submitted. It focuses on those for whom the procedure for determining residence has already been carried out in the country, while all others are governed by another law, as we know it, which the Ministry has referred to as systemic, as opposed to what it referred to as technical. However, when commenting on the inadequacy of the classification of laws on technical and systemic laws, the debaters avoided such a name in a further discussion, which was the result of a segmental resolution of this issue. We have not received any answers on the material consequences of the enforcement of this law, as they depend on the review of some 26,000 decisions. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court’s decision does not address the issue of compensation. This is, of course, left to the general rules of compensation law or bond law when and when each individual injured person proves the deprivation of property that is to be incurred by erasure. In short, the applicants stressed that direct or indirect material consequences should not affect whether or not the Constitutional Court decision will be implemented. Notwithstanding the differing views expressed in the debate, the majority assessment was that the Constitutional Court’s decision should be followed, as it was contrary to the Constitution and the law that it was deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations in 1992. He was also refreshed in this context, the memory of the time when the possibility of preventing such an erasure was given, but unfortunately the amendment offered by the congregation at that time was over-voted. In the debate, some also expressed concerns about the urgency of amending the law, regardless of whether the six-month deadline imposed by the Constitutional Court has expired or has expired. The debaters referred to decisions that had not yet been made, some even after years of expectation, but referred to those cases that they had not, as they say, experienced their materialisation and stressed that all decisions should be respected equally, which we all agreed on and it is normal for no one to object. The Committee was rejected by the majority of votes in favour of the proposal that the applicant submit an addendum to the proposal today, explaining that the law solves the problems arising from the illegal deletion. However, the explanation, as the proposal for a decision suggested, should also include a list of those who made the deletion and all those who knew about it. This Decision has not been adopted. However, two amendments to the four groups of Members were supported, namely Articles 2 and 3, thus simplifying the procedure or facilitating the issuance of decisions, as well as keeping records and entering the register. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Madam Rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee. A colleague of mags. Drobnic will move the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by his colleague Celigoj. First, my fellow magician. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u6	Good afternoon. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! The proposal for a law implementing the 8th point of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is unnecessary and controversial from the point of view of the Slovenian legal system. In the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the provisions of the current law on foreigners or the law governing the status of nationals of other States of the SFRJ successors in the Republic of Slovenia should be amended, which should be constitutionally contested, meaning that the law submitted is unnecessary and undermines the constitutional legal system of the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear to everyone that, in the case of a constitutional decision, the provisions in question must be amended in the law, not to write a new law, since that provision remains in law and the legal system is confused. It is clear from the Constitutional Court’s decision that the law and disputed practice have been misappliced and therefore none of those laws should be amended. This is not required by the Constitutional Court, but by the correction of the proceedings. Therefore, as citizens, we have an administrative procedure, an administrative dispute and a judicial judgment at our disposal. That such thinking is legal also shows the fact that the Constitutional Court has ordered the Ministry of the Interior to issue, on an official basis, supplementary decisions establishing permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. This statement clearly shows that the procedure for regulating permanent residence has been violated, the application of a regulatory act by the administrative authority, which is not constitutional matter, and the subject matter of an administrative or judicial dispute which should have been ensured to anyone who considers that they have been infringed in the proceedings. This marriage is unnecessary and brings only confusion. Another dispute in this law is in the process, as the proposal does not meet the conditions for the reduced procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly clearly state in which cases a reduced procedure may be introduced. Even if the deadline is short - you have had enough time to propose a normal procedure - and even if the time limit laid down by the Constitutional Court does not allow you to violate the Rules of Procedure. Members of the ruling coalition do not respect the acts they have enforced themselves. So another example of the will of LDS rule and their coalition partners. Colleagues and fellow Members, you claim that this urgency is necessary due to the expiry of the deadline. Have you thought about the Income Act, which has been constitutionally disputed since 1997, which we discussed yesterday? But you're in no hurry because in this case it's our children and their survival. You've been incredibly insistent with strangers, and you've consciously decided to violate even the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, a small constitution. The law does not yet comply with one of the requirements of the Rules of Procedure - it must contain the necessary ingredients. One of these is not the financial consequences of the enforcement of the law. Since public finances are completely imprecise in the Republic of Slovenia and new skeletons are constantly falling out of closets, this obviously does not present any problem. So, in addition, it is controversial to solve only these categories of citizens, the problem of deleted is wider. The injustices continue for many of our people who have been forcibly erased from the list of citizens and permanent residences after the war on the basis of the decisions of the revolutionary government. We have to take care of everything the same. It is therefore unnecessary and pointless to solve only one segment of citizens in an exceptional and systematicly controversial manner. The resolution of rights to return is controversial, especially under the conditions that individuals had the option of protecting rights under administrative procedure or before a court of law, since the State of Slovenia has given all foreigners the opportunity to obtain citizenship and permanent residence after independence. It is unacceptable that the Slovenian population will therefore have great financial consequences. In New Slovenia we represent the view that the law is unnecessary, that the law is not introduced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the reduced procedure does not have all the components, that it will have serious consequences for Slovenia, which are completely unnecessary, meaningless and illogical, and also unfair. That is why we do not support the law and we have not tabled any amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Mr Čeligoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Potrč. First of all, Comrade Cheligoy, please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! The title of the law that we are considering does not tell us much and carefully hides its contents, but it is a bill that, together with the law that we discussed yesterday, solves the problem that we have all been dealing with for quite some time. The bill regulates the category of around 4,000 to 5,000 foreigners, for whom it is assumed that they actually live in the Republic of Slovenia throughout the period from 26 February 1992 onwards. It is a group of people who have been able to exercise their interests in an appropriate manner. The proposed law, which is of a technical nature and therefore governs only the way in which a Constitutional Court decision is implemented for this group of people, creates a legal basis for regulating their status. The law regulates a specific subject for which we cannot rely on other sources, but we can be subject to imitation. If the law is adopted, the procedure for regulating the situation will likely be prolonged and the procedure for the enforcement of damages will also be delayed. In the DeSUS Group, we would like these procedures to accelerate, as far as possible, that we will be able to resolve the burden that we have been dealing with for a long time. The blame is great, each individual is trying to solve the conflict with another person, with another group or country in the most appropriate way. There are still many irregularities in Slovenia, but they have not stimulated media attention, which does not mean that they do not exist or even exist. If individuals unite, they are certainly stronger in their demand. The company of deleted inhabitants of Slovenia succeeded. In the DeSUS Group, we want every form of intervention or court or other authorities to be required as few times as possible, and we want to see that the law itself respects human rights in a sufficiently appropriate manner. The DeSUS Group takes the view that the decision of the Constitutional Court must be respected, not only in today's case, but always when the Constitutional Court decides that the decision is contrary to existing legislation. Otherwise, the decisions of the Constitutional Court do not have their true validity and one part of the authority loses meaning. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS Group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. My colleague Potrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Petan. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday, in the debate on the so-called system law, we presented the circumstances in which decisions were taken that require us to correct today's unconstitutional and illegal status. The proposed law, which we are discussing today, should only correct those unlawfully caused injustices to those who have already obtained permanent residence under the law we passed in 1999, for which permanent residence in Slovenia has already been officially established since 26.2. I would like to stress this because it is essential and because I am afraid that we will talk again about many other things, which is not the content of the law. It is not a matter of solving things without finding out the facts, for no giving, for no change of things, all these people live here no later than 26 February and their permanent residence has already been established. I stress this for this reason because I fear that, in the face of all the untruths that have been said yesterday, with all the insults of individuals, with all the ignoring of the rule of law and equality before the law, with all the demagogies about potential material obligations, the question is whether the facts are relevant at all. I'm afraid not, and as a Member I must say that I am disappointed with the state of the spirit on this issue in the National Assembly. It turns out to be the fault of those who have been wronged, not of those who have caused injustice. But, unfortunately, that is precisely why it is worth reiterating: the injustices were and we, as a state of law, are obliged to correct them. And to talk about the fact that by correcting injustices, we are causing new injustices to the Slovenians, to depreciate independence, to sell the country and the like, is indeed extremely unworthy of the personal honesty of the Member. In particular, as regards independence, grave falsehoods have been said. I have before me - and everyone can look at it - the rapporteur of the then Assembly since 11 December 1990, in which the agreement of political parties before the plebiscite and in which eleven parties and parliamentary groups then committed themselves, among other things: that all members of the other republics of the Yugoslav nations will be entitled not to change their political status. And second, it is explicitly stated: that the plebiscite definition of the independent and independent state of Slovenia can only be the integral act of the Slovenian people, the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore cannot have and does not have the right of any party to accept it as their own thanks. But it was just yesterday that we wanted to hear from individual customers that one was for and that the other were against self-sustainment. Let us respect the official documents and the way we came to independence. The United List of Social Democrats therefore supports this proposed law. For us, however, the decision of the Constitutional Court could also be implemented by issuing supplementary conclusions. However, if this is a better step if there have been different legal opinions, let us also accept this path and thus correct injustices. The rule of law and human rights cannot be realized according to the beliefs of people or by ideological criteria, but by the way in which an individual is held before the law. Let's do this, and I think it'll be for the benefit of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. The next one has the word of a colleague, Petan. Comrade Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Malovre. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! To begin with, I would say that I agree with those who say that the arguments may not make sense to list the arguments. If ever, then it's on this marriage, but I'm looking at it a little differently. Yesterday I said that the law that we adopted yesterday was quite specific and unique because it saves things back. But for the one we are dealing with today, I can say that he is even more specific and even more unique, not to say that he is absurd. With this law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, which we are considering today, I could say that. The fact is, the text is such that at the first moment many did not even understand it. So I'm not going to quote all that, but I'm going to say it in a language that we also understand. The fact is that this bill only addresses the part of the requirements relating to persons who have already obtained a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia following the current legislation on the day that it was obtained. That means the ones that have already won. If yesterday's law was still meaningful and it was still valid to talk about it, it is in fact incomprehensible why now with this law, if someone specifically obtained that residence permit in 1993, 1994, 1995, we are now returning it to him to get it 26.2.1992. That's absurd. Why, in fact, this is necessary if it was understood yesterday that there might be injustices, we cannot say today that there are injustices being corrected. If you were born in 1995, now you're forced to be born in 1992. That's absurd, and that's absurd, which is what we're talking about. And that's what we all understand, and I understand those who have become a little stinky. What we do with this law is normal! That's a guilt repair! And why are we even doing this? Why to someone who has already gained a certain right - well, he can also call it another right - who obtained it later, and now, by this law, we give it back to him that he had received it before. This proves that in the whole case with so-called deleted - I think the term is wrong - it is no longer just about correcting injustices, that it is no longer an issue of intolerance when we could hear, but it is only about mortifying the Slovenian state as it was in the old days. It is only sad that sometimes they could not prevent this from affecting them, because others in Belgrade have made this decision now and we are deciding it for ourselves; it is not understandable. It is only for billions, which those who have been managing money flows all the time, that Slovenia has been damaged, would still want to get funds, of course, back, because they did not believe in the Slovenian state, because they did not want to apply for a stay in Slovenia or later - they are in this law, but later, but all of this needs to be seen as a whole. It's true what we heard yesterday that they had every right to not ask for it - that's true. However, they also have the right to accept all the consequences of such an act. Nobody said that last night. To get that money because they attacked the Slovenian state because they were breaking up across the country - some of them, too, I must stress, not all of them, because they would have done the wrong thing if they had said in general - because they went to other parts of the country and carried out ethnic cleansing there, but when they lost all the wars, they came back and they wanted to do it with the majority of the Slovenian country they had demanded for 600 billion in this Parliament. Even if there's a billion less or more, it doesn't change things. No one has ever committed to these things in Slovenia, and at least at the time of independence, because we were united at the time - at least the indicator is so and we were serious. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I guess time's up, so I'm gonna finish. [[...]] This means what we do, 1 million for every Slovenian family, 300,000 for every citizen. I wonder when those of you who represent certain categories, as we had the law yesterday, would have to vote on how each of you will give up 300,000. I wonder if you'll continue to speak as you do today, especially my colleagues from my left handiwork, which you represent as a political option. The fact is that we do not have to support such a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it solves something that has already been resolved, and it is, in turn, unacceptable, blackmailing the Slovenian state. And as I said, if there was still an understandable matter yesterday, today it is not so clear on this issue and, of course, we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Malovra will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Štemberger. My friend Malovre first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u14	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, we had a rather emotional debate on the deleted by law, as Mr Potrč said before, and today's proposal for laws implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision is a technical law that addresses the problem of the introduction of the procedure and the records. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has repealed certain provisions of the law governing the status of citizens of other countries of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia. In paragraph 8, the Ministry of the Interior ordered the issue of supplementary decisions to the citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ, who had already obtained a residence permit under the law on foreigners.With these decisions, permanent residence is determined in the Republic of Slovenia from 26.2.1992 onwards. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Decision is a matter of legal specificity or novelty. I said something about it yesterday. We therefore believe that the implementation of this point of the Constitutional Decision must be regulated by a specific law. Legal experts have also confirmed that a number of legal issues and dilemmas are raised in relation to the implementation of that 8th point of the sentence. In their view, the Constitutional Court is the so-called negative legislator, which means that if the laws are found to be inconsistent with the Constitution, they can be repealed. It is true, however, that, as part of the determination of how to enforce its decision, it can deal with certain matters of a legal nature until such matters have been settled by the National Assembly with the law, but it must act very self-limitingly. Of course, such enforcement must be in accordance with the Constitution and laws which have not been repealed by the Constitutional Court. In accordance with Article 153(4) of the Constitution, decisions of administrative authorities, such as the Ministry of the Interior in this case, must be based on the law or the law. We believe that it is not constitutionally correct for a Constitutional Court decision to constitute a direct basis for the issue of legal provisions, as this is not in line with the principle of the division of power as set out in Article 3 of the Constitution. That 8th point is also not a processable one. However, in the proceedings referred to in paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision, the Authority has already decided on all the issues which were the subject of the proceedings at the time. In addition, in a procedure initiated at the request of the party, it is not possible to decide by a supplementary decision on something which was not subject to the request of the party and which subsequently did not consent to it. Such a decision would be null and void under point 4 of Article 279(1) of the ZUP. The supplementary decision can only be issued on the basis of the laws and regulations in force at the time of the main decision’s entry into force, since the effect of the repeal cannot be regarded as retroactive; that is, the legal relationship in which the repeal was legally decided. The different conduct of the administrative authorities would also be inconsistent with the principle of jurisdiction set out in Article 158 of the Constitution. The Ministry of the Interior cannot therefore issue supplementary decisions, as laid down in point 8 of the Constitutional Court. The basis for such decisions, which, of course, would not be complementary, but, as provided for in the law, these are the findings, although they have been issued on an official basis, which can only be a new law. The law itself does not regulate the issue of compensation and it is not its substance. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we support the adoption of this law in order to maintain the legal order in our country, respect the legislative competence of the National Assembly and the applicable law on the general administrative procedure and thus the rights of all parties in proceedings before administrative authorities. We will therefore support the text of the law as amended by the amendments of the coalition parties' parliamentary groups, which are even closer to the dictatorship of Act 8 of the Constitutional Decision. It seems particularly important to us that in the amendment to Article 3, we have established a verification or determination of actual residence if, for a period of time, the competent authority of permanent residence cannot determine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Mr Štemberger will not present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs will present the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and, finally, her colleague Peče. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, of course, supports the adoption of the law for the reasons presented yesterday. The law provides the legal basis for issuing the conclusions. It should be pointed out that these decisions do not create any new legal situation, but only align the position of individuals in our country with the actual situation. The law has three articles. As a result of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, allow me, as a result of our failure to support the amendment, because it expresses in its content the full ignorance of the regulation we are adopting here, but I will find out what we want to do with this regulation. In Article 1, we will regulate the conditions and the procedure for issuing such decisions. Who in our country will get these decisions? These decisions will be given to people who will be undisputedly found to meet two conditions: that on 23.12.1990 and 25.2.1992 they had a registered permanent residence under the rules applicable prior to the independence of the Republic of Slovenia and have been granted a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia as aliens from 1992 onwards under the amended foreign legislation. In order to obtain such a permit, the Ministry of the Interior, as the competent authority in the process, had to indisputably conclude that in the Republic of Slovenia they had stayed continuously and in fact all the time, from the moment our country became independent, until the moment when they were granted this fact in the form of a decision that allowed them to stay as foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, to understand the decision of the Constitutional Court at work when it says that these people need to be made for a period when the legal status was not regulated due to the legal void that we discussed yesterday, which the Foreigners Act of 1991 did not contain in the transitional provisions of the more favourable conditions than in the Citizenship Act and for foreigners from other countries, but not from the former countries of Yugoslavia. Therefore, during this period, a legal void has been created for these people because of the difficult conditions they have had to meet. The status was not regulated because of difficult conditions at a time when the residents were no longer permanent under the previous legislation, nor did they enter into civil status. Therefore, for this period, these conclusions will be issued, with the title 'complementary', in fact, the content of 'complementation of the status decisions already issued' allowing them to stay permanently as foreigners in the country. They mix the concept of permanent residence and residence permits. The permit to issue permanent residence was issued to an individual when he applied for status under the Foreigners Act and later from the U.S.S.A. When someone obtained such a decision, he was allowed to move smoothly across the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and anywhere in any administrative unit to notify his permanent residence if, of course, he had a residence there. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group is not appropriate because it does not distinguish the status and the facts of the application of permanent residence. The procedure will be simple. It will be introduced by the Ministry of the Interior on an official basis and will also only update the records. This is how we wanted to follow the intent and content of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision by drawing up this law with as little bureaucratic procedures as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you very much. It burns, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u18	There's scum in every society. I'm sorry. As a rule, however, all companies tend to reduce their quota. By this law you will increase this quota of these scum according to our assessment. And it's awful that it's gonna be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u19	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u20	the Slovenian State awarded these specimens through increased tax rates. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u21	Please do not use [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u22	If this is the decision of the Slovenian State [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u23	Qualifications that could be accepted as offensive. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u24	In view of Slovenian policy, we will by no means support it in the Slovenian National Party. We have a different solution for these specimens in the Slovenian National Party. We're not going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u25	Look, because we have different views, we're in this congregation, and that's perfectly normal. However, we must present them in a way that is not offensive to others. So I ask that we all adhere to this business and cultural rule. You have no say, please, this has been a warning to the chairman of the debate in the National Assembly. Please continue to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled. We'll run it on the basis of a review of the amendments, you got it on October 28th this year. We have the amendments to Article 2nd and 3rd. I will first put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Anybody want to talk? Please, Comrade Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Your Honor! As you have found, the amendment must be supported and there is no substantive nature. It is simply that, when amendments were adopted and a supplementary proposal was prepared, it was necessary to establish that Article 3 regulates the entry of an address into the register and therefore it is only a technical amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u27	Any other words regarding this amendment to Article 2? If not, I will conclude the debate and move on to the debate on Article 3. Here we have both the amendment of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Anybody want a word? Comrade Janš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The amendment we tabled at least partially corrects the damage that would have occurred if the law had been adopted as proposed. Because this law tries to regulate the status of those who already have status, but in a way that somehow prolongs their status under the applicable law. Even for a time when they probably weren't in Slovenia at all, and for a time when they didn't even demand or want this status. These solutions are actually unique. It also changes in principle - and it will probably have in the future if such a law is adopted, including international implications, some lawyers point out - the term of permanent residence, otherwise defines it, otherwise defines it, as is the case in customary law. And this part of the law has one purpose: to enable those who have already arranged for a time when they did not have this status to do so - because the legislation obviously existed, because otherwise they would not have arranged it - and they did not want this status, the right to compensation, that will be the only consequence. So you are not saving the status of people who would not have any status because they have already arranged this, but you are generously allowing them this right to impose compensation for a time when they did not even apply for the status, nor did they want it, and in many cases they did not live in Slovenia. This is, therefore, some kind of attack on the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers and this is totally unjustifiable. And this recognition is given without any substantive basis. This is done by law, which is dealt with in contravention of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. This law does not meet the business conditions for the reduced procedure, which we have already pointed out when you requested an extraordinary meeting. For this reason, I must say very firmly that if the law is passed, we reject any responsibility for the situation that will arise, and we believe that the compensations that will come will come - and if you read the affected category website, you will see that they are already offering very high amounts of settlement with the country. They will be liable for these damages and will be fully eligible by the Slovenian taxpayers to recover them from those who will support such a law. However, with this amendment, which we are proposing, we are allowing at least some actual situation to be checked, and in no way does this amendment conflict with the Constitution or with any provision, it is seeking to mitigate the consequences that arise if the original proposal is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u29	My friend Krebs has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to say that, with respect to Mr Janša's implementation of the amendment, all that you, Mr Janša, have said in the first part to explain the amendment is not true. We will probably admit something to them for a time when they were not in the Republic of Slovenia. That can't happen! In fact, the Constitutional Court’s decision was so direct because the Constitutional Court’s judges knew that people who had the status of a foreigner had to live continuously under foreign law, which was then in force in Slovenia. Allow me to give you a plastic image of the facts and actual situations that were then. I am a citizen of one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia. I do not choose to have a close relationship with the Republic of Slovenia, although I have been in it for five years. I am talking about the time before 1991, for a banal reason, the possible right of succession in the Republic of Croatia. Since I am not asking for the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, I am aware that I therefore reject the closest link with the country. I step into the administrative unit and I want to regulate my status on the basis of the provisions of the law on foreigners, which was in force at the time. I stress: in the transitional provisions - and this is an obvious constitutional court - there were no milder conditions for me. Therefore, I am subject to the law on foreigners, with all my conditions, as listed in Articles 13, 16 and 19. The official introduces me to this condition. These conditions for granting a permanent residence permit are that I was granted a temporary residence permit as a foreign resident for three years continuously in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of the decision and instructions of the Government already in the same year, however, the permanent residence established prior to that period following the entry into force of the Aliens Act in 1991 is considered to be a continuous temporary stay - no temporary residence permit is required. I must have the means to survive, to live, to show an interest in why I want to stay here in the country, that is to say, to have a job or some other reasonable reason which has been prescribed by the law on foreigners such as some modern foreign legislation - of course this period was three years of continuous residence. So when I had to prove these facts, I also had to prove my identity and submit a passport to the state of which I am a citizen, which meant that in these circumstances, which were then in Yugoslavia - we know exactly the war situation - and also obtain personal documents at consulates, there is a travel document. So when I managed to arrange this, I obtained a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia in 1994. What happened to me from the moment I didn't get into civil status until 1994? That's what we're talking about today. All this time I lived in Slovenia, I worked here, I was employed here, I was able to obtain a residence permit in 1994. Here I was a resident of this country, but the difficult conditions of foreign law did not allow me to obtain immediate residence permits as foreigners. For this period, therefore, the State, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and of this law, has governed my actual situation as a legal situation, complements the decision issued in 1994 with information on the actual state of my continuous stay in that country for the two years. So, from the moment I didn't enter the citizen body of the Republic of Slovenia and I wasn't in the foreign body either - so we're talking about these people not actually dating 26. 12. 1992 managed to place in the foreign part of the body with an appropriate legal status. That's all we're talking about! How many permanent residence permits on the basis of the difficult conditions of the Aliens Act have people actually obtained during this period? According to the 1991 Constitutional Court decision, where it summarizes government data, it says that those who had a registered permanent residence for at least three years and actually lived here were granted 1,468 permanent residence permits in 1992, in 1993 763, in 1994 361, in 1995 312, in 1996 640 and in 1997 1,259. Thus, by 1997, he had been granted permanent residence permits, according to a status decision, about 5,000 citizens of the former Yugoslav republics. So, the statuses are settled. The Constitutional Court states that the problem in the second part is that the conditions under which this status was to be regulated were not proportionate to the other legislation which was adopted by the citizens of the former Yugoslavia. We are doing this now; we are not giving these people anything new, as it has already been.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u31	Comrade Petty Officer and his fellow Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. If we were only talking about the fact of that moment you're talking about on a specific date, then your explanation would hold. Since it is the exercise of the rights to return, for a period of time, it is necessary, in particular because of the consequences that this brings, to verify.If it is only for this, to determine the situation at that time, I do not know, at the time of deletion or at that date, then it would be sufficient to watch the fulfilment of the conditions by that date, whether they have fulfilled or not. In this case, it is something else - what was actually happening after that date of deletion, in those years. Since it is also a matter of consequences and we regulate things backwards, it is also necessary to look at them in this dimension and, through this dimension, to determine whether they met the conditions, as the decision will have to be made. Because for that period we need to obtain all the facts and through the procedure already laid down by our regulations, it is necessary because it is a matter of return. If we were to now work cumulatively for a date, I don't know, today's date, then we would have taken into account the conditions that preceded that decision. However, since this is a setback, this whole period should be taken into account. That is why this amendment is correct and appropriate by the Social Democratic Party. Not to mention the serious consequences that would have arisen if this amendment were not followed. That's the difference - because the law regulates things backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u33	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u34	Well, the discussions that are taking place today on this amendment prove what was said yesterday on several sides that this status could not be regulated. Yesterday, everyone claimed that under the 1991 Foreigners Act, status could hardly be regulated. And today you're talking about how they've settled this status. So, the status could be settled if it was wanted and if it was here. So it's very interesting to compare the argument today and yesterday. The 1991 Foreigners Act, perfectly normal, did not separate the category of foreigners. Why would I do that? Slovenia has declared its own country which has applied for the nationality of this country, but was a national of this country who has not requested it was a foreigner. Why would foreigners who today are citizens of one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia, which is now a country, have more rights than foreigners who are, I don't know, citizens of Austria today? As this law states, it regulates the conditions and procedure for issuing a decision establishing permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia of citizens or nationals of another successor country of the former SFRJ. Why? Sure. Certainly not only those who left Slovenia and were granted citizenship only from the countries next to the former SFRJ were deleted. Or maybe someone else went and got the citizenship of Austria or Australia or the Netherlands. Is that right? Why is the law discriminatory at this point? Second, the cases you mentioned earlier are probably small. Most of the cases, when someone later settled this status, stem from some other periods, but people left Slovenia, not in 1994, but they left in 1991, mostly. And then they went back to Slovenia, when it was bloody, the genocidal odyssey of the Yugoslav army and other federal institutions concluded. And they went back to Slovenia in 1994/1995, then they waited three years to meet this condition of three years of stay here, they gained some status, say, in 1998 and since then they have it arranged. Now you admit to them by automatically issuing a decision permanent stay here even at a time for which you have no evidence that they have been here. The Constitutional Court has not established this. Did the Constitutional Court determine that? The authorities that issued the thesis on the status of those who had arranged it have determined whether they met these conditions under the law on foreigners. You've been talking about three years of uninterrupted stay, but since the times when they could leave, how do you know that you don't? It's been known for three years, and it's been 11, 12 years since then! And we automatically admit everything to them back without checking it out. What we're proposing is that you check it out. Not only for three years or for the time provided for by the Aliens Act, but for the whole time for which a decision is to be issued to them in return. If that doesn't make sense, then I don't really know what makes sense. And I'm really asking for the government's reasons why it discriminates against foreigners in this law. Why is only the citizens of the successor countries of the former SFRY being dealt with here? Why not those who may be in this category, but at that time have acquired some other nationality, Austria, Australia, the United States? Why is the law discriminatory?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u35	The explanation will be given later after the performance by my colleague, the State Secretary. Let's go, buddy. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The situation of 30 thousand - or if we are now dealing with them, because it is said that about 11,000 of these 30,000 definitely moved out - is very large and I believe that each of us, partly of us, can, in part, easily, by generalizing a case to all parts of the terrible manipulation. I'm saying terrible manipulation. And I don't think that's right. As for the amendment, let me first of all, which I do not believe, try to believe the opinion drawn up by the legislative and legal service of 28.10.2003: "In view of this we reiterate, - I quote - "that the government, as a proponent in the proposal of the law, - for this - "to which the initiative relates, it states extremely that this law applies only to those foreigners who are allowed to reside permanently, who also live in Slovenia all the time since 26.2.1992." For all of you, this has been the case all along. And the proposal to redefine the content of this amendment is unnecessary, unless it wishes to delay the procedure The actual stay of 26.2. has already been established for these people. That's what this opinion says. It was found for some, as Mrs Pavlinič read, in 1992, 1993, 1994, but that they lived here all the time. Good. You don't believe me, call the secretary of law, tell her she's lying. Some facts simply need to be believed, because otherwise we can invent ourselves as two were invented in this debate. First of all, why aren't those rights required by the Austrians? The decisions of the Constitutional Court - only if they were read - clearly state why they are not required. Because they weren't erased. Because they have not been deleted and there is no reason for it to change its permanent residence records because they kept it as foreigners on their own, even as they did on the day of their independence, and there is no question here. As for regulating the status of these people - see, Mr Janša. They didn't want it, they didn't ask for it, they didn't ask for it. You know that's not true! Otherwise, this whole procedure would not have been brought before the courts for 10 years, before the administrative authorities, before the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, it would not have been the Constitutional Court's decision if it had not been for these requirements, and that would have been the requirement from the date of independence or the status of change for foreigners further. That's how it's made up. And talking about it is really rude to the public. All those who are concerned with this law today, I say again, but they've already settled their status. And at least for them it is indisputable that they wanted him and that they demanded him. And they wanted and demanded it, but they only received it from the date of the decision, they wanted and demanded - and they have been entitled by the Constitutional Court since 26 February, and all of this is the content of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u37	Mr. Secretary of State, will you explain? My friend Janš will come after you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Mr Janša had two questions. The first question, which concerns essentially the purpose of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democrats' Group of Members. For all these people, in administrative procedures, by administrative decision, according to the criteria applicable under the current law on foreigners, it was found that they lived continuously in the Republic of Slovenia. We've lived all the time! And it was because of this fact that the Constitutional Court went so far as to prescribe in this 8th point that it was easy for these people to get this thing back. That's all the simplicity, that's all the interpretation of this 8th point. Your second question for this group of people: why not for some Austrian, German or other foreigners? Since the third paragraph of Article 82 of the then law on foreigners is very clearly allowed for permanent residence in respect of these foreigners, all foreigners continue to be treated. They did not have these problems, and the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision is very clear on which foreigners the Constitutional Court tells us to settle this matter, which is why. And another explanation, if you can, about the damages. In the event of damages, various things were mentioned, different facts. We must take into account: for the first time, the fact that the right to compensation exists under Article 26 of this country's Constitution. Everyone has the right to compensation, whether we adopt or reject this law, whether or not it is adopted or rejected yesterday's law. Secondly, this law does not regulate compensation itself. The compensation will have to be dealt with before the judicial authorities, before the courts, and against the courts, to prove the damage. There's no automatism here, so talking about giving now, giving away, I don't know what, it's true now. This is about individualised human procedures, because they will have to prove damage to the courts, causation, and then they may get something from the courts. And there's only two more things I'd like to add. Mr Drobnič and Mr Petan simply said legitimately that they did not think the law was unnecessary. I have already said at the outset that a large group of administrative and constitutional experts have also prepared an expert opinion for us. Mr. Malover even quoted him in Del, quoting him. It makes it clear that the law is even necessary in this case. And one of the very important reasons why it is necessary is that it also maintains a very important principle of the division of power, which is very important for this High Assembly of States, that the legislator is the one who prescribes specific decisions in the State administration, but not directly the Constitutional Court, which has this possibility in very rare cases, and, as the opinion says, should also regulate this self-limitingly. Moreover, a very important thing remains in this expert opinion that the 8th point would also not be procedurally feasible without the modification we have made in this law, which also refers to the provision of Article 220 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is so that my answer - not that it is unnecessary, but, on the contrary, without the law of the 8th point, we could not be realistic at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u39	My friend Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u40	If you looked at the statistics when these procedures were being invested, you would see that these requirements were practically not available in 1992, 1993. Is that right? The flood of these requirements is due there in the mid-1990s, when it was clear that Slovenia came out of the Balkan boiler, that the standard is better here, that even if you do not have citizenship of this country, it is worth having a permanent residence here. And those who had speculated until then began to make decisions. In 1992, when this was not yet so clear, these applications were practically not available. And these people weren't here either. At this time, obviously, if the citizens of other countries are the successors of the former Yugoslavia, this citizenship has been regulated by others at that time. If they had a permanent residence in Slovenia on 23.12.1990, on the day of our plebiscite, then apparently they also did not have regulated Serbian or Croatian citizenship at the time, because these countries were not yet present, but they regulated it later. Thus, instead of regulating their status in Slovenia, where they were supposed to live permanently, they regulated their citizenship in other countries at that time. They must have met the conditions for citizenship in those countries. And these countries did not give citizenship to someone who had a permanent residence in Slovenia; excuse me, he had to go down there, sign up and settle this status. We're not crazy enough to buy the crap you're selling here! The nationality of other successor countries of the former SFRJ was not there in 23.12. And all those here who say they have been here constantly and loyal and so forth, have settled their citizenship in other countries at this time. And they had to meet the conditions for that. If you look at the laws in these countries, you will see that everyone demands more or less permanent residence. So they had a permanent residence there, too. And you say they had a permanent residence here. It's a thing that obviously doesn't drink water. Second. The Law on Foreigners, which regulated our status, does not require a permanent stay from 23.12., requires some other time-limits - three years, as Mrs Krebs said earlier. It is said that this was not proved to have been here continuously if they received a decision there in 1998. It wasn't proven - how? They didn't have to prove it. They proved they were here for three years, and they got it. Now you will give them a decision in which they will be recognised, in return, that they have been here since 23.12. And the law applies only to the citizens of the successor states of the former SFRJ. Bring me that legal job that says it's drinking water, and we'll talk about it, Mr. Potch. Paper takes everything, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u41	Good. As far as I can see, there's no more Aha, fellow schoolboy, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u42	The logic introduced by colleague Janš is flawed in at least one point. It is not a matter of exercising civil rights, but of others, as a permanent residence. These decisions, too, and this problem, which we are solving with two laws, solves problems of foreign status rather than civil status. And the logic of the different provisions of international law and conventions is that everyone has to have civil rights somewhere. This is why there is much debate in international forums on so-called apatrids. But this is not about this problem, but it is about a situation where someone consciously did not become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and - please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u44	and wants to enjoy the rights of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] That's what we're talking about. In order for this to happen, it has caused this technical transfer of records - also this opportunity to be used for this - which will have to be cleared in all its dimensions and data because it will become much clearer in this way and it will also be easier to make these conclusions, I will say, about political and other responsibilities. But despite the fact that I do not think that a special law would be necessary in this case, but it would be possible to supplement the decisions that people have received in the process, most have made, as it has concluded. I think this amendment, which is explained in the text so, in the speech of Mr Petan, who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members and with some additional dimensions, needs some comment and objection. Mr Petan said that some of these people performed ethnic cleansing and that when he could no longer do so, he returned to Slovenia. I call on Mr Petan of this town to provide information for those people to those of us who are working with the Hague court, because this will be very welcome. This will, on the one hand, ease the debate on all these applicants for this status with us and, on the other hand, help to clarify, I will say, the issues of the crimes in, I will say, the republics where the war took place. For such a policy and such a political group, this type of claim is a great responsibility and I think it is right that it does and that in this way we also contribute to this clearance. If he does not do so, then this, as was said yesterday, is some kind of policy, because it suggests that it is not actually through these procedures, through the situation initiated by the Constitutional Court, we give protection to war criminals. Of course, I would oppose and oppose this, but I believe that this debate is in this national assembly, that it must also have these kinds of epilogues, or we will come into a situation where we are also accusing without taking the necessary steps. I am also taking advantage of the opportunity to say in my own language, and I hope to say also on behalf of my fellow Members - I very strongly protest against the terminology of the "freaks" by Mr Pečet, whether they refer to the people affected by this discussion - or that there will be no misunderstanding, even when we are talking about our colleague Mr Bernik. And "hyenas" etc. But let's just say that this is still permissible as some kind of plastic character representation, while this other one is something that needs to be distanced in its own name and on behalf of colleagues who think so. [[..]] I believe that I can also build my political image on this, I believe that it is also possible to get some votes and some commitments, but to borrow from my neighbors again, God help us if this is the majority of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u45	Comrade Peca, you have the right to a replica under the rules of procedure and I will give it to you. No one can restrict your rights to you. But our right is, and we also demand that we do not receive hurtful views. This applies to you and to any of us. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language under one of the understandings of the word "shit" also defines immorality. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it was immoral on the part of a group of people who issued this country or who, because of their speculative nature to this country, behaved in a way that is not fair - and that was the mark of my text. I would like to touch or associate myself with another aspect of honesty or immorality in this national assembly. Look. Yesterday we had the opportunity to talk about the 40,000 who would lose their job by joining the EU, and this national assembly voted yesterday not to talk about it. Mr Školč, today you are all talking about the so-called deleted, how the greatest poor people are, how Europe calls us to tolerance and, on the other hand, you voted negatively yesterday to talk about how to provide Slovenian citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u47	This is not the subject of the current discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u48	And you're hoping to tell me! In the Slovenian National Party, we distance ourselves from your statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you. Comrade Školč, I propose that we do not discuss the inadmissibility of insults because it is a fact. And we all owe ourselves to this norm, which also determines our reputation, to hold. Please, colleague Skolcz, please don't discuss this so we can get back to the substantives.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u50	Mr President, I also conclude this dispute with Mr Pecett if he understood it as a controversy, but it was not meant to. I am self-inflicted from this kind of discussion and regret that the only way to survive this kind of talk is through political survival; I didn't want to say anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u51	Colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Citizens of other successor countries of the former SFRJ had the nationality of one of the republics and, at the same time, the citizenship of the SFRJ before the independence. All in the country, i.e. the former Federation, had two citizenships, republican citizenship and SFRY citizenship. And at a time when these inhabitants in our territory have not decided to apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, they have therefore moved into a foreign field in our territory. Of course, they carried with them the citizenship they had before. And secondly, why is it different for other strangers? The Constitutional Court clearly states in its explanation that this law on foreigners of their transitional legal status in 1991 - for the foreigners we are talking about - has not been settled and has thus caused them to be even worse off than those foreigners who had the status of a foreigner since before the independence of Slovenia. In order to distinguish between these two types of foreigners from the republics of the former Yugoslavia and Austria, Italy and so on, the Constitutional Court did not see a valid reason, so it speaks of the legal void of that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u53	My friend Janš, then Peca and Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u54	Even if that were true, Mrs. Krebs, what about those who have settled their Austrian citizenship? They cannot claim justice under this law, even though they could be affected in the same way. Because you only speak here about the citizens of the successor states of the former SFRY. But what you're saying isn't true either. It is not true that everyone had to have dual citizenship in 1990. That's not true, that's not true! You could only have had Yugoslav citizenship; the Republic's citizenship was very loose and unregulated across different republics. However, even if this were to hold that it was everywhere like in Slovenia, once countries were formed in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, all republics had different statuses of citizenship. They adopted new legislation and regulated the conditions for obtaining citizenship in this legislation. And the citizenship was not given to anyone who was not there; the man had to come there and arrange it, in accordance with the new legislation, which they adopted. They didn't send anyone a passport, that's perfectly clear and it's verifiable. It is possible to determine when in Croatia or Bosnia they passed the Citizenship Act, what conditions were necessary and when someone arranged it. It is also very clever to talk about the fact that a permanent residence has nothing to do with citizenship. We all know that a permanent residence, a fixed time, is a fundamental condition for obtaining citizenship. It is said that if a permanent residence is granted to someone for twelve years in return, he will fulfil the fundamental condition for obtaining citizenship. It's as clear as one and one. The same is true for the government to say that there is no point in discussing compensation. Already the people who are the subject of regulation under this law are denouncing this position because they are talking about numbers, they are negotiating informally with the government about these damages and they are listing themselves the very large numbers they will require. So to say that the question is, if any claims are made, it's funny. Our marriage, as it is, "does not drink water" in a legal sense. He's completely discriminatory. Why would a foreigner who today has the nationality of a country that is a member of the European Union not have the same rights as a foreigner who has the nationality of countries established in the territory of the former Yugoslavia? I really don't know. But he could have arranged his citizenship somewhere else. I'll say, it's completely written in the light of some political blindness, to settle only the status of some category related to the SFRJ. Secondly, there is no argument that someone had to stay permanently, so that since 23.12. 1990 he could have settled the status of a foreigner because the legislation in force at that time had different criteria for regulating this status. I would also like to say that I am pleased by this acquisition of Mr School for the Culture of Dialogue. I am pleased to hear for the first time that I have heard from someone from his political option that he has distanced himself from Mr Jelinčič's court-excused statement, that the voters of one of the presidential candidates are "naked". I wonder how the judiciary would decide if someone on the other hand said that Mr Kučan's voters were the same; I wonder if they would have found that the category was not affected. I must say that whenever that pessimistic knowledge was heard of the first-degree verdict, it is that Mr Školč was able only as one of the representatives of the Liberal Democracy and condemned this fact, a positive knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u55	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u56	I'd like to get involved with my colleague, too. Especially in the form of binding the views of the National Party or the form of our vote on the assumption or denominator of political survival. You know, Mr Školč, as long as you will have no serious argument to convince the public whether it is professional or laziness, as long as you will have the theme of this national assembly whenever it does not suit you, and otherwise, you will not have any serious argument as far as you are concerned. But I would like to point out that this is a way of thinking. In the National Party, we are aware that, at this moment and here, we represent the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia, and that we are not subordinated to the priority of meeting only abroad. Slovenia has too many open questions that you do not want to touch. All institutions involved in macroeconomic analysis remind us of the disaster in public finances. All institutions dealing with macroeconomics remind us that because of the poor part of this national assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has not been successful in transposing legislation by the European Union in the next five years, it will be at risk - once again - 40,000 jobs for Slovenian citizens and citizens. But, of course, you don't find this critical at all, and for you, the critical issue in this country is only the question of self-named deleted, nothing else. At the same time, you forget or do not want to talk, just as a government representative, about the financial consequences. Who will bear the financial consequences? Will they be carried by the European Union? No, no, no. They will be borne by Slovenians and Slovenes through two different forms: either raising existing taxes or introducing new taxes. We have just found that Slovenians are being deprived of their right to work, not only diminishes, even abolishes, but this is not acceptable to you right now. Mr Školč, I do not challenge you or argue that you are only looking for political survival in new, deleted or new voters, for whom some claim to be, some claim not to be. This is your decision, and I would also ask that you take your work a little wider once; let us be in this national assembly people who look at things differently. And if it is a priority for our nationals, Slovenians and Slovenians to live better, we will ensure not only the minimum that we all like to stress, but something more, and if we are aware of our tasks, do not refer to it as political survival. That's why you'll have 30 days before the election. If you start today, then we will no longer touch anything, no more material things in this country will be resolved. And it makes sense that we have different views. In particular, I and probably all my fellow Members within the National Party's Group are proud to have different views. I am only sorry that yours are so very different that you do not think for a moment about the citizens of this country, but you are only going to respect the Constitutional Court's decision once for a change. See how many times we have encountered various requests about the Constitutional Court's decision and then the biggest argument was just by the Members of the Liberal Democracy, I am telling the electoral legislation that you are all referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks: the Member in his decisions is not bound by any instructions. And this is the fear of this national council that will lead to an even worse situation. In the National Party, we will not support any act and we will not give a favourable opinion or a positive opinion to any sub-legislative act which will add to the burden, according to our assessment, unjustifiably to our citizens and to our citizens. We come from a very simple fact that there are 90 of us sitting here to create better conditions for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u57	A fellow cremator. Behind you, colleague Mamić and colleague Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, signed by Secretary Tina Bitenc Pengov and external professional associate Dr. Miro Cerar, writes: "In view of this, we reiterate that the Government, as a proponent in the proposal of the law to which the initiative relates, explicitly states that this law only applies to foreigners with a permit to reside permanently, who also live in Slovenia all the time since 26.2.1992. This fact stems from checks in a procedure leading to the issue of their current permit for the permanent residence of foreigners in RS under the law on foreigners and also under the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia." It is written in this document, it says very clearly that the procedure has been followed, that the verification has been carried out and that this amendment is, of course, unnecessary and therefore I will not support it. Secondly, as far as compensation is concerned. The Secretary of State has already said. I said it yesterday, but I'll say it again. Just as it's unacceptable to manipulate numbers, to manipulate how each family will pay a million, and I don't know what we're going to take off those 300,000 that they're going to have to, and so on -- which is, of course, total manipulation at this point. So I said yesterday - and I repeat today, it is totally unacceptable that there are already initiatives for some settlement. There is no room for settlement, as there is no room - and there should be - for such manipulations. The procedure, as Mr State Secretary has said, is quite clear: in the courts of each individual case, it will have to be determined and the court will decide whether someone will get what he gets, when he gets and how he will get. So these numbers, all 600 billion, all 800 billion, and I don't know what they are, they're made of vines and they're in function -- otherwise I'll be allowed to manipulate a little bit -- the intimidation of people, the intimidation and the finger pointing at some political option, if you see, this one wants to destroy you in this case. This is simply a matter of respect for the Constitution, the Constitutional Court and the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u59	My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. I would like to say something about this: about the moment when Yugoslavia was falling apart and falling apart and about citizenship. If it were true, as the honourable Madam Vice-President said, that we all had citizenship, then that would be automatic, then nothing else would have to be done. We had all Yugoslav citizenship, only a country as one that had failed - whose citizen I was then. If that were automatic, I wouldn't even have to play a role! In fact, I was not born in Slovenia, as I said yesterday - we should not be looking for anything, nor should we be given a role. I would automatically have citizenship because I've been continuously declared. I wasn't registered in my homeland all the time. That's what you say if you don't have a permanent residence. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, that's got to do with it. I'm not a lawyer. I'm sorry. I can be wrong. But I do believe that if you're not reported permanently, you can't have citizenship either. And now, if you didn't get direct citizenship, then you had to play a role, a request, and so on and you got it. Every man, no matter where he lives, has to take care of himself. And even if he lives in an environment, he must also know how he moves in this environment, how he will live, how the family will survive, and so on. It is said that somewhere it was his duty to find out what right he had, how that right was obtained, or in this sense of citizenship. I helped many people, fellow countrymen, not only Dalmatians, but also Macedonians and Serbs and Bosnians, and so on, I redirected them. I said, you'll get in such a situation that you'll have problems. Come on, ask for citizenship. Yesterday I listed four categories of people: one and the Priors didn't want to. For those of you who said they didn't have time - they didn't want citizenship. And now we're fighting for those people here, too. They were no criminals, they were doing nothing against Slovenia, but they didn't want citizenship. And now they're erased. And then, there was one thing that could not be told: no one can take away my citizenship, etc. Of course he can't take it from you. If you don't have it, I told him. Yeah, sure. So, they didn't understand, they just didn't understand that people feel sorry for me, and I wanted to help them the most, and it didn't work out. Then one of them was tactical. The woman has Slovenian citizenship and he has sought his mother's citizenship. If it gets better in Slovenia, the man will come up, and if he gets better down there, we'll go down there. These were tactics. I'm not even going to talk about the category that was very much yesterday, but I'm going to say that it was very complicated. And there's something else here, one very important information. There's been a lot of awkwardness around the offices, too. I, for example, got citizenship right away, and my son didn't get it. Why? Because I asked what it was like for children, because she's a Slovenian mother, they were born here - yes, she automatically has citizenship. For me, it was ad acta. When his son wanted to go to college, he couldn't because he didn't have Slovenian citizenship. And I'm going to the office, "Well, for God's sake, how come my son can't get a citizenship?" "Yeah, you didn't make a bet!" "They said it was automatic." "Yes, yes, you must add the role." Then I mentioned an example from construction because I'm a builder if I was a control authority when she was building a house, and if the balcony fell, I'd say, "Why didn't you put the armature on top?" "How do I know about this?" "Well," I said, "now we're there!" You don't know our stuff, I don't know yours. There have been other cases like this. Now we're making this stuff out of all of it! I am in favour of all people living in Slovenia to live civilizedly, to have all human rights, etc. I very much support this. But because of all these reasons which I have stated that the state must now also sacrifice this; Mr Kremjar says that it is not known how much will be paid, etc. It bothers me the most, though, whether it's 600 or 800 billion or just one billion. I don't know how long it's gonna be. It's just that every smart guy will apply for the money that belongs to him. And if there's 18,000 or so, times as many. Please! That's why I'm against it, not the other way around. I support everything else. The lady said well how and what, but if we are talking about consequences, we should not ignore the consequences, even if they will be in ten years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u61	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u62	At the time of yesterday's debate, under the so-called system law sent to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or sent to us for consideration, and at the time of today's technical law, which we are assessing in the National Party in order to be considered in one law, we have said that we find the whole matter unacceptable because of three things: the financial aspect we have highlighted, but we have not put it in the most important place. The most important place for the National Party - the issue of self-named, deleted, of course takes the view of the Slovenia, which, according to our assessment of this act, the ruling majority on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia destroys, and the act of independence itself. However, I would like to touch two people in this part of the speech. For the first time, the stepmother's attitude of this National Assembly to the issue of the rights of the Slovenian and Slovenian works, as I spoke about earlier in the Replica to Mr Školč. At this point, however, I would like to touch on the speech of one of the members of the Liberal Democracy, who has declared it unacceptable that Members are expected to operate on the costs that this law will bear with it. The fact is that the financial consequences are one of the mandatory parts of the law. And if we look at what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has presented to us as financial consequences under this technical law, we cannot be satisfied in any way. The fact is, the government is ending its text with financial consequences in the sense that they do not know what the financial consequences will be. For every other law, gentlemen, which has a much smaller financial impact, up to a thousand dollars is required precisely how much the state budget will be charged, from which part of the state budget will be the resources that will provide these funds. In the case of the so-called technical law on self-described deleted, however, you suddenly accuse the opposition Members of the fact that it is unacceptable that we want to know, in the course of such state-of-the-art finances as it is today. On the contrary, it is unacceptable - that we allow ourselves to adopt acts where we do not know what financial consequences they will have. That's unacceptable! This is an unacceptable attitude towards public finances. On the other hand, and on the most important side, this is an unacceptable attitude towards Slovenes and Slovenians as taxpayers. You all probably know that over 90% of the financial revenues in this country are derived from taxes, i.e. those to which taxes are to be paid. And that's sad. Therefore, the indignation of the National Party is, of course, so much greater when it comes to transfer and labelling. According to our assessment, the government should agree with the Judicial Council, on the one hand, to agree in advance on the legal practice of these or similar cases. It would be responsible for the government to know what legal procedures will be like in advance. And if the government says that's impossible, then it means that we don't have any of the powers coordinated between us, that the work is completely wrong. As we consider it wrong to adopt such laws, with the content of the definition of financial consequences as offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u63	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Janš, then colleague of Potsch and representative of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u64	Well, I think it would be very interesting if this law were to be adopted and enforced at a time when they would start filing these lawsuits and indemnifications, to read these discussions to those who say it would be nothing. I have to say, this thing isn't going to pass without anyone knowing because it's too resilient. Of course, I don't believe they're going to recover 800 billion dollars; not because they wouldn't be demanded, but because we don't have them. The Slovenian state will not pay for this money because it does not have it. I also do not, of course, believe that if these rights are given back unjustifiablely, they will not recover large sums. I don't know if you know the data - those who are in the ruling coalition should - how many damages have already been awarded in the court proceedings of the Slovenian court in the last 10 years. The numbers go into billions. I don't know if you know how much hole there is in the Slovenian Compensation Fund - the numbers go into hundreds of billions, hundreds of billions and you don't show them in any budget memorandum for the coming years, they're gone, you're hiding them. In Slovenian courts it is very easy to challenge the Slovenian state, very easy. These numbers are big already, and don't make any illusions that there won't be any now! What do you think is the motive of those who are now unjustifiable in return, according to ours, you are not regulating the status. The status isn't motive because they already have it. There are two motives. The first is citizenship, because once they get their permanent residences back, for 10 years, they will meet very strict conditions for obtaining citizenship. A key condition! And the other motive is money. The status is saved, they have two other motives, that's money and citizenship. And that's what rights are about, that's it. Now, if you think this is about principles, they suddenly realized how a country they didn't believe in and because they didn't ask for citizenship has changed, and they love it very much. In short, if you think the motive is patriotic, then we're all naive together. Of course, I also want to know why there is not the same government's interest in recognizing these rights back to the Slovenians who live in the world, who have been forcibly expelled and who have been wiped out for 50 years and 23 years. 12. 1990 could not have had a permanent residence here because they had already been wiped out for 50 years. Mr Potch, why don't we stand up for them too, their injustice is 100 times greater, and we don't fix it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u65	Comrade Potts, did you raise your hand before? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The United List of Social Democrats is also concerned about what will be the obligations arising from the decisions taken in 1990 and later and determined by the Constitutional Court. Each of us is concerned if this is to give rise to major material obligations on the part of the State, but two must be said. These substantive obligations under the applicable Constitution and on the basis of the possibility of exercising this right in the courts exist and are not related to the adoption of this law or are not. That's what every one of us knows. He's only saying something because he's cheating. On the basis of the direct provisions of the Constitution and the decisions of the Constitutional Court that already exist, anyone could apply this. I hope that this will be as little as possible, and I hope that the obligations will be as low as possible, because the consequences that have been caused have been less than you are speaking today. As for the compensation fund, Mr Janša, if necessary, let us look at the magnetograms. You spoke for the first time, and I talked every time we talked about the compensation fund that after 2005, there was no more coverage for the commitments we made in this National Assembly under other criteria. At that time it was said: Too bad there are such great obligations! But you caused them. It was a denationalization. Now you have the opposite criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u67	Mr. Secretary of State, you wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you. Just a few more explanations. In fact, there were some questions, but there was also a claim by Mr Janša. Regarding the claim that, according to his belief, a large majority - or that there were such cases as I think Mrs Krebs mentioned them - were probably relatively few and that there were most others. I'll put it this way: no one has any exact records here. We can only guess or use some oral information, some oral tradition. It is interesting, however, that if we look at an official document, one of the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court, Official Gazette 14/99, on page 1323, it is very good to see statistics showing that a large majority of these people have obtained this status by 1996. And another interesting fact needs to be highlighted - because of what Mr Janša said. Of course, we can't rule that out. All I'm saying is that there are no solid data to say that this is true is that in 1997 the Aliens Act was amended and that the period of three years was extended to eight years. This means that for that critical group that, for instance, might actually have these speculative purposes, it was really impossible to get a status without a total, continuous stay, for it was a period of eight years. As far as foreigners are concerned, I must admit that - Mr Janša, I do not understand your question. If we only talk about the Constitutional Court's decision, it's just because the decision says so and makes it so. Now, if you're talking about a broader policy, I'm here, believe me, I don't have the authority to discuss what happened after World War II and so on. But as for the other aliens in this story, you weren't harmed. For, as I quoted earlier in the third paragraph of Article 81 of the 1991 Act, this was, of course, regulated by the transitional regime, which meant that their authorisation was simply extended further. As far as compensation is concerned, I agree, in fact, with what Mr Janša said, that when we look at magnetograms, it would be irresponsible to say that it would be nothing. I have absolutely no hope of saying that on behalf of the government. I have underlined only one thing: that the decision - and if we read carefully the Constitutional Court decision on page 4180 - in the preceding paragraph very clearly states: the citizens of other republics to which this decision applies, which, due to the irregular legal situation, cannot exercise certain rights, will be able to exercise these rights in accordance with the rules governing certain legal areas. This marriage does not help to say: it is now automatic, but because of this marriage someone will get all these billions. How much - we do not know because there is no consistent case law in this area. We can guess. We can set a limit, but any estimate at best is very inaccurate. That's why it's so problematic. I agree, however, that it is irresponsible to say that it will not be any of this. We must make this clear that there will certainly be compensations, but the problem is, of course, that we do not know how much. However, this will be a matter of concrete proceedings before the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u69	My friend Bernick, Petty Officer and Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! I'll try to be brief. First of all, I would say that I support the amendment tabled by the related party to recheck the data for the following reason. By the time the data was collected, our administration had not yet been well organised and it would have been very healthy for the state to take a little look at what was going on at the time. If it's all right, then we can all be happy. But as for the potential costs, I'd like to mention this. Clearly, this will be possible in the future, we do not know how much, when and so on. But one thing we do know is that there is a whole bunch of crocodiles out there in our public who are going to try to get to that money. I'm not talking about these written-offs right now, I'm talking about people who have profitable interests. We know you all over the world. And those of us who have ever been or are lawyers know how to do that. It is interesting, however, that I cannot understand how the fact that in all the brains of the government, which the ministry has, someone cannot establish any approach that would limit any compensation. I know it's not that easy, but if you get the right lawyers together, it's gonna happen. And I'm finally supposed to say another thing that I mentioned last night that really bothers me. That we have different standards for different people in this National Assembly. We have one standard for Slovenians, and this one is very cheap for those who have not been somewhere in the Continuity. For others, for example, they are much more generous and perhaps also because we fear that someone in the European Union will be critical of us. But it is necessary to separate those things that the State has the right to decide, even if they are unpleasant, or that a person comes and tells us that you have not fulfilled this and that, as the European Ombudsman wrote in his report and has criticised the government and our Ombudsman, but not too badly. Last night, when I was talking about erased in our history, I forgot to mention something. These are the ones that were erased today, and these are all dead after World War II. These are forever erased and the law we have adopted, and some are very pleased with the way he is pietous, and these people are completely erased. Good, why do we have such a standard there, here, in the living, who can help themselves, but live in our democracy, but we are all suddenly committed to what will happen if we do not do so in a manner that is required by the Constitutional Court. As I have already said, I doubt this decision of the Constitutional Court. I know we have to respect her, but we can criticize her. And I am also thinking about what else can be done; no doubt this is possible. As a result, it seems to me that all those who appeal to how important it is to follow this decision should first imagine how many laws await the decision of the National Assembly to enforce the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Well, that doesn't seem to bother us, does it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u71	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle. After you, my friend Peca, and I think we'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. It is justified to ask about the procedure, the criteria for this law, if you have already brought it and you intend to confirm it, so that the consequences are, of course, smaller. As a result, you did not foresee - this bill was limping, as we have already said - you did not foresee consequences. Sampa himself was just talking yesterday about the consequences of what's coming next. They are predictable and can be calculated and predicted to the maximum extent. The second is, of course, the question of whether people will apply or not. That is the case with every law you propose - what it will mean. And this law does not contain the key provisions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and we are now discussing these matters and we need to discuss them. Of course, you people, who don't care, now you're laughing and talking over there or you're not interested in a billion taxpayers' money. That's the problem in this country. Regarding the compensation fund, Mr. Potch. I have repeatedly stressed that if these things were regulated by models, such as those in regulated democratic countries, compensation would recover the consequences of Nazi and fascist violence from foreigners. We got part of the reparations in the previous system, but what the previous revolutionary government lost, we don't know. It's the same with denationalization. If any property has been abandoned to someone, the bipo logic of things must have kept at least that property as a good master - of course, the former authorities have wasted it. But denationalisation, if implemented in accordance with the principle of return in nature as much as possible - would not be such obligations from the Fund. However, since you are opposed everywhere, the obligations towards the Fund are greater, but you have acquired this property, which should actually come into the hands of denationalisers. This is the result of this act. And now, for these things, lawyers are the ones sitting in the Constitutional Court. I respect the Constitutional Court's decision because we have to, although it's not good and it's not real. They did it primarily on the idea of those who are lawyers for this group, but we have to respect it now - God forbid, people need to know. But, at least be so reasonable, think about the consequences. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u73	Please, buddy. I mean, you don't have time. [[...]] I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u74	Not replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u75	It's not possible because there's no time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u76	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u77	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u78	It was explained that I was mentioned in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u79	Just a minute. It's not possible. We've decided that the replica goes in time. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u80	In particular, after Mr Bulgarian, the Secretary of State, we consider that he has confirmed the appearance of so many unknowns that it is highly improbable, uncreditable for this State Assembly to adopt the law. Firstly, you mentioned, of course, that you cannot know the case law. Secondly, you cannot know the financial consequences of the budget. Thirdly, you do not know that the analysis of the existence and the reasons for the occurrence of the situation is still imprecise. So, in the National Party, we estimate that it is because of all these questions that are coming and will, of course, be a heavy burden on our country that we cannot accept this law without the knowledge of the answer to this question. On the other hand, you do not wish to take any action, or at least to consider, in further proceedings, at least to determine possible damages, at my discretion, and to try to reach an agreement with the judiciary on future jurisprudence. By the way, you will respond to what Mr Drnovšek has replied long ago to the fact that there are individual branches of authority: executive, legislative, judicial and that one does not interfere with the other, if it is something unacceptable. And three, four years ago, we just called on Mr Drnovska to try to contact the Bank of Slovenia and take individual measures around the inflation that was then even more hidden than today. At that time, Mr Drnovšek, as Prime Minister, simply replied, no, not because they are completely independent and we will not interfere with their work. Today, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working with the Bank of Slovenia to take action. I want to say that if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sat with the Bank of Slovenia four years ago on a proposal from the Slovenian National Party, the structure and the level of inflation today would be different. However, I am afraid that, precisely because of the failure to comply with the Slovenian National Party's proposal to agree on a method of judicial practice with the judiciary, this country will lose much. Because if we did this today, it would be much more favourable, the law would be more transparent, and we would know the financial consequences. If, of course, you insist - and I believe that you will insist - that this is absolutely impossible, because there is no such elasticity in the Slovenian government, let me also remind you of the performance of one fact, or practice in this National Assembly. As you know, some time ago we passed a law on victims of war violence and a law on the correction of injustices. Both, in their final provisions, ordered or introduced a specific technical law setting the upper limit of compensation. And in the National Party, we are assessing why we should leave this issue to compensation, which we have all come to realize together, that in the worst case, they can only bear 800 billion Slovenian tolars, which is more than half of our country's national budget for the whole year and which means our country's bankruptcy. Why not define in the final provisions the forecast of a certain, special-technical law if you have already broken the matter so much, and define that anyone who shows that he has been wronged - we will see how many of these cases there will be, and if the court takes the matter into account the difficulties of the Republic of Slovenia, of course these will be very few -, it is justified to, for example, say, 10 monetary units. Our assessment would, of course, require greater responsibility mainly from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which comes to the National Assembly with such a proposal for a law. I therefore appeal to you once again, in the future stages of the so-called proposal for a law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor states of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, to make final provisions, to predict a specific law and to the final provisions of the proposed law on the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, where we will put, in theory and practice, some kind of case law in the form of an upper limit. At that time, the National Assembly would meet with some kind of a credible law, for they would know the consequences or know the consequences of receiving it. Unfortunately, today is all this speculation. Only this guess is so much more painful, and according to our assessment, so much more uncreditable, due to the state of public finances in our country. We all know that we only owe ourselves to the fact that the deficit from year to year is greater, public debt. And worst of all, Slovenia is prepared for the first time, the European Union, which has guided us or heard us and said, Slovenian country, be friendly to everyone. On the other hand, because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we have found in practice to take into account when we want them, but when we do not want them, we do not take them into account. And the argument, when disregarded, is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest legal act that says that the Member is not bound by any instructions. Sometimes we say that the constitutional decision is above the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. So, this hierarchy of legal acts is questionable. Mr President, I think I still have some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u81	You're being disturbed, that's one thing. The second is that you must stick to the framework of the debate. Please, you have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u82	I personally assess that the debate is much broader and that all Members of this debate should be aware of the breadth of this debate. Not only because of the financial consequences, not only because of the nagging of decisions by the Constitutional Court, but mainly because of the relationship that we all have here together, everyone with their own or all of the same, we are showing to our citizens. I personally advocate the view that we should take decisions that will be known today. Do not leave the issue of debts, new deficits and new obligations to future generations or things that will not be affected. I personally assess that the law or that the law should bear the limit or prognosis of a special technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u83	Good. Please, just let me take a look. You have three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I believe that such a debate shows that the law, which is supposed to have such long-term and long-term consequences, cannot be adopted in the short term. The situation is complex, the decision of the Constitutional Court is intended to be respected and also realized, but it shows that such a solution is too quickly and is not yet sufficiently complete. It is true that legal experts have presented their solution. However, after all this, it seems to me that not all options have been overplayed and that because it is an extremely political issue, especially the political issue, that this area should be regulated together with the opposition or should be listened to, because I am afraid that you will otherwise bear all the consequences yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u85	He's a friend of mine. Please hold on, we're discussing three. The article and the two amendments that have been tabled. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u86	I would like to refer to my colleague before me, although I agree with most of her implementation. But I must point out that in the end, unfortunately, you hit the pass when you said the consequences would be borne by government representatives. That's not true at all! The consequences will be borne by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, all of us. And this is the fear we express in the National Party. If only Mr Bulgarian and Members of the Liberal Democracy, the United List, were to bear the consequences, then we do not see any problem in the National Party. The problem is that the consequences will be borne by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I've been fixing so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u88	I think I have another minute. I agree with my colleague, he's got the right idea, the consequences that will hit us in the pocket, we'll all carry, and I think the responsibility should be for those who accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u89	I believe that we can conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 21.45. But let me say on the basis of yesterday's experience and today's experience in the debate, when we have witnessed statements that do not belong in this Chamber, that I, or those who will preside over the meeting, will give a reminder or even take away the word if words that will be offensive are spoken. Either that or that you're considered scum, naked or similar labels that don't have a place in this house. At 21.45 we will decide on this subject at 2.40 p.m. and we will begin by considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u90	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LEVEL PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Kebra, and give him my word for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, you have the floor. [[five minutes]] . My friend Anderlich, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u91	In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we postpone the item to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u92	This is a proposal that we will examine immediately, so please for a moment. A procedural proposal has been tabled, which we cannot resolve at this time because the National Assembly is not present in such a number to decide on, so we would like to consult with the leaders of the groups of Members. I would like to ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet me in room 217 and agree on that. I am adjourning the meeting for a few minutes to discuss the case with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u93	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are continuing the meeting of the National Assembly. A procedural proposal was made to postpone the 20th item of the agenda to one of the following meetings - I do not know the exact definition of the proposal, or to the next meeting or one of the following meetings. That is why I have convened a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, where we have consulted and come up with a new proposal to be tabled by my colleague, Tone Anderlič, the head of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u94	My proposal was, however, precise that we should postpone the item to the next meeting, namely in November, and that we should have a second and third hearing. In view of the interviews and discussions, and in view of the fact that the reduced procedure provides for all activities to be carried out in one session, because it is usually minor or should be minor changes to the law, and since it is nevertheless necessary that some things should be corrected in the third reading, I will correct my proposal which I am now making, and after the second reading, I will repeat that the third consideration of the law is to be carried out at the November session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u95	Thank you for this withdrawal and a new proposal, which you will then repeat. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u96	First, I'd like to ask what the procedural proposal you've been talking about, and who gave it to you, because this point hasn't started yet, at least if I didn't know. Secondly, if adopted in second reading at this meeting, the third reading of the proposal cannot yet be carried out at this meeting, because from the vote of the evening to tomorrow afternoon [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u97	The reduced procedure, Comrade Tsukati, can be carried out in a reduced procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u98	Well, I would certainly ask that we do not, without a vote on the procedural proposal, decide on our own. The procedural proposal shall be decided by vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you for thinking about it. The procedural proposal was put forward and the procedural proposal was then withdrawn, so we can continue our work. The point started because I opened it earlier. I now give the floor to Dr. Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u100	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, which would like to highlight three of its major amendments. The first amendment is that the law brings about a new level of equalisation of citizens' rights to universal health insurance or to all compulsory health insurance rights. As it is known, a group of farmers who do not meet a certain degree of censorship have so far not had the opportunity to be insured to the fullest extent, the whole of it in its case means, in particular or exclusively, the right to reimbursement for absence from sickness or reduced disease, the right to funerals and the right to postmortems! We believe that the law, with the changes it brings, has aligned these options with all the rest of the insurance companies. This means that this group of farmers receives the same rights, and it is clear that this also gives them new financial obligations and thus gives them the same obligation, the same level of contribution as the rest of the farmers who already had this right. This is about what is the essence of the change in the health insurance of farmers. The second group or other amendment concerns something that could be said to be a very banal harmonisation of two laws. One law, it is a law on compulsory insurance in traffic, which has long established that not only can damage the sheet, but also health defects are part of special car insurance. The second law, namely, our law, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance narrowed this right or the possibility of recovery to a very narrow group of those involved in transport that caused an accident of particular negligence or purpose. In doing so, he left the entire system of recovery to the long-standing court proceedings, burdened the courts, costing both the health insurance institution and clearly to the insurance companies, and of course particular emphasis should be placed on the fact that the health attitude of this country - not only in this mandate - has been a longer period of time that so-called special risks, cinemas affect all citizens, are excluded into special insurance and, within these special insurance systems, also with the bonus malus system, contribute not only to the collection of money, but also to certain types of financial poles for the safer behaviour of the participants or providers of such risks. That is why in this part of the law we do nothing but delete from the previous law the word "special negligence" or "intentionally caused harm" and thus logically communicate that any damage to health, any health consequences, must be protected in car insurance. You know, even so far, these discussions have been conducted that there have been different assessments of what financial intervention on car insurance means by this proposal and, of course, these dilemmas, whether or not the car insurance has already received these funds. I would like to inform you that our estimates have come, not because of the lack of data, but because of the way in which data are collected and paid in health care and formed in the form of some average costs rather than the actual costs per insured person, it has then, after a number of studies, brought these damage to the order of 3 billion or 3 billion. I would therefore like to tell you that there have also been discussions and an agreement that in the first year the health insurance office will issue appropriate accounts, that is to say in the first year we will introduce transparent content accounting, but in the first year to a certain amount and this amount should be 3 billion and a half. This, of course, also has an important impact on what is being drilled - and this well-founded drill - spirits, that is, how much more car insurance we hope to increase. We believe that, with this direction, this car insurance will not achieve a significant increase in the coming year and certainly not more than a few percent, of course, if at all, but here the important word the state has in the form of a finance ministry, after all, car insurance, compulsory insurance and the state at this point has its role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The bill was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a working mother and will give the Committee Chairman Stanislav Brenčič the views of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished minister with fellow workers. The Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Committee discussed the subject of the Act at its 37th regular session of 8.10. In addition to the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on social activities and the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and the request of the Union of Farmers of Slovenia and NGOs. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Agricultural Chamber, the Association of Farmers of Slovenia, the Slovenian Insurance Association, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia participated. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, it formulated specific comments to the draft law on Articles 1, 4, 8, 11 and 13. The members of the Committee took further note of the submission of the bill by the proposer, Mr Minister, as we had just heard. Representatives of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance stressed that the law submitted does not make any changes in obligations, but only defines you differently, namely: who can be an agricultural insurer. We already have three groups of agricultural insurers: the first group which has a narrower scope of rights and pays a contribution from the cadastral income; the second group includes those who voluntarily opt for a wider range of rights and the base is the same as in the pension and disability insurance system. The third group, however, includes those with or without such low incomes that they are paid by the municipality or by another institution, depending on the conditions set out in Article 21, paragraph 15. The basis for determining contributions shall be laid down by the Social Security Contributions Act and the proposed Act shall redefine only those groups of agricultural insurers who voluntarily engage in pension and disability insurance and who already have a wider right in health insurance and who want an additional right. In the debate, MEPs and Members, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Committee, in particular, had a holding at Article 1 and Article 8 in particular. And a little bit more for articles that shorten procedural tasks. Thus, the Committee adopted the amendments to Article 1, Article 4, 5, I think 6, 7, 8. Article 11 and Article 13. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee voted and also adopted all the remaining articles. Even those with whom no amendments have been tabled. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133, a proposal for a law which includes all the amendments adopted is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. They will follow the positions of the delegations. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. The government has prepared another unfortunate amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act. Last year, she introduced a package of changes to the law, which we then had to return to the previous state three months later. The proposal for changes essentially reveals the true nature of the health reform, which goes to the great harm of the insured, the unfortunate, the sick and the relatives of the deceased. One novelty is that farmers who have opted for voluntary pension insurance will also have to pay health insurance. The additional contribution will increase the burden on farmers so that a number of farmers will withdraw from such voluntary insurance, especially as a state pension institution is established, with a minimum age reduction condition, and a limit of 65 years will soon be reached. This is an unwise decision that will deter many of the farmers who have been insured and paid to the insurance fund from the insurance policy and thus further reduce the contributions to the pension system and also to the health allowance which is linked to the status of the insured person. It is pointless to re-write the law on how to manage the collected data, as the existing rules already provide for this. Also re-list all databases already listed in other laws. The three-day deadline for a customer to react in administrative proceedings, disputes, is undoubtedly too short. We've filed supplements. It's changed to three working days. Not enough. After the current law, the health insurance institution had the right to compensation, i.e. treatment costs, cash benefits and other costs incurred in connection with the treatment of the insured person, to the person who caused the disease, injury or death of the insured person, on purpose or because of gross negligence. Such subjective liability shall also be required in pension and disability insurance. The novel turns this upside down, and an individual or a legal person, i.e. an entity, must cover up the damage, whether guilty or not - a costly and senseless liability. In particular, it means that the husband will pay all the medical expenses for the passenger, including the wife, in case of a car accident. Even if it's not his fault, it's negligence. This means a commitment to an individual, which is also contrary to health reform forecasts. It's obviously a real reform. We'll have to pay for it all ourselves, then health insurance. This is the true image of health reform. The maximum limit for determining the penalty is pointless to enter, as they are already enshrined in the Act on Offences. The text of Article 12 is pointless, since the data deleted cannot be stored in the system’s databases for five years after it has been deleted. Is it possible that the purpose is to gather after the manners of the old Judgment and in contravention of the law? Finally, the Ombudsman also points to this point in this year's report or in this last report to be considered. On page 20. I quote: "Personal data is stored in the proposal, and the reason is that the data have not been deleted within the legal time limit, as well as the rules often do not set a time limit after which the data must be deleted". It's a crazy provision. We will not support the law because it is harmful to citizens and contrary to the necessary reform and does not respect the fundamental principles of legal protection. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Keber. Are you going to correct the reckless mistakes you had to make last year with one such novel? The Ombudsman also specifically mentions this novel as a controversial fact, which is an infringement of rights, even a special chapter of this purpose. Let's see what the Ombudsman says. Although the Ombudsman criticized the procedure by which the National Assembly adopted changes to the law, as well as the content of the legal changes, which, in our view, was non-systematic and reckless, he was unable to cut anything. That's what the Ombudsman says. Will the minister and the coalition learn anything and learn from these lessons?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you. The position of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by a colleague of Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A well - hailed minister and members or associates! Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance following a reduced procedure, which redefines the authorities and decision-making procedures on health insurance rights and attempts to follow the principle of rationality and speed, takes into account the provisions of the Law on General Administrative Procedure and coordinates the provisions of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 28.10.1978. In particular, the law defines the health insurance of farmers, the transmission of data from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the damage recovery procedure caused by the ZZS, in detail and more clearly defines the main solutions to the procedure, the identification of temporary inability to work. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the proposed amendment relating to the identification procedures and the time of incapacity to work will, in particular, allow insurance and employers to be quickly and effectively accessible to legal remedies in proceedings before the institutions and thus to judicial protection. We expect that this change will resolve many conflicts arising from the insufficiently defined role of the appointed doctor and of the Health Commission and the way in which decisions are taken by decision or decision. We also expect an extended period of three working days to have its expected effects. In the UK Group, we welcome the proposed changes concerning the obligation to provide data to the institution, which means improving and providing better opportunities for more effective recovery of damage caused by legal or natural persons. At the same time, in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, they will be entitled to obtain this data free of charge. We therefore expect that compensation procedures will be better managed and more effectively, as criminal liability requirements are defined and clearly defined, because we are aware of the length of the proceedings in the courts. In the Joint List Group, we are aware of the fact that the present procedure, which required the identification of the cause of the injury from those who, on purpose or because of the gross negligence that was difficult to detect, caused disease, injury or death, found the court, and this caused great backlogs, delays, delayed a number of proceedings. We therefore welcome the solution offered, as we are aware that this more effective arrangement is based on the basic principles of social, health insurance and European practice, by which the costs of treatment of injuries and rehabilitation cannot be the subject of solidarity between rich and poor, sick and healthy and young and old, which are characteristic of compulsory health insurance in Slovenia and can only be subject to adequate individual insurance or individual responsibility. We are aware of the fact that in recent times some of these laws have actually focused only on some material consequences, but we expect that many of the changes it offers will resolve the major conflicts that have so far been in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be given by a colleague of France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have before us a law or a change of the health insurance law. The main issues, of course, are the insurance of farmers first. Here, the kind of negative side of this proposal, or the weakness, of the previous flaw in the proposal, is resolved by the provision that insurers under this heading decide voluntarily for insurance also for a reduced amount of rights. Furthermore, we have a few more words in this proposal about the transmission of health insurance data, and we think it is a very good and positive solution that the police - and other public authorities are also obliged to provide insurance companies with information that in some ways also contributes to the more cost-effective behaviour of the health insurance institution and to the recovery of compensation. Then it's the Health Care Database Act. I think it's good to re-check and supplement this data, but at some points it's complementary. It is very interesting to add to the article 79.b, where the Health Insurance Office also manages data on healthcare providers and is proposed to supplement the list of physicians with operators. Unfortunately, this data record does not even have the Ministry, although it should have been regulated long ago, and we believe that this is at least a good contribution on this side to a better register of health activities. Of course, there is also talk of decision-making. A new concept, or old concept, has been introduced into this law - appointed physician. We have no comments here. Most of all, however, is a speech on this Automotive Insurance Act and on the provision that a car insurance undertaking or a car insurance undertaking should also cover the costs of injury and disease arising from car accidents. We believe that this is a European standard, that this has already been set for us, but it has not been implemented, just to say that in the contracts we all sign in the case of car insurance, this risk is already included in the general conditions for the insurance of the car liability you accept at each insurance. It says, quote: “The insurance company reimburses damage to the death of a person’s physical injury or health. [[damage due to death, physical injury and health]] ".. This insurance company repays this damage and the treatment and the injured person. And we're already paying insurance from this address. Thus, insurance against liability for damage caused to third parties received 51 billion car insurance companies in 2002 and paid 30 billion. From this title, the insurance companies thus had 21 billion profits, net profit. I believe that this money belongs to health care, although it will still remain more than 10 billion net profits to insurance companies. We therefore support this proposal because we believe that this is more fair. We are certainly surprised, however, that the Ministry is no longer stressing or criticising the threats posed by insurance companies that are unwarrantedly threatening to increase car insurance. Nevertheless, they will have high profits and this threat is entirely unfounded and I would like to see the bill's proposer more clearly and repeatedly stress this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u109	Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u110	Thank you for saying that again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have also made it public several times that, on the basis of a good and objective assessment of the health care situation, a more comprehensive package of amendments and additions to the Health and Insurance Act should be prepared and submitted to the National Council for consideration. Somehow the Ministry of Health is taking this too seriously, as if the situation in this area is quite favourable and financially stable. It is not, in our view, good in this objective state, which is slightly different, to rely more actively on us to step into this area on the basis of adopted or definitively designed and defined health reform, because it can be too far away. We therefore welcome the solutions put forward by this proposal, and this is only part of what the Ministry of Health, as responsible for the policy and state of the healthcare system, should or should do. In addition to shortening the procedural deadlines, changes in the health insurance of farmers and changes in the exercise of the right of the health insurance institution of the Republic of Slovenia in the recovery of the damage caused by the disease, injury or death, other changes to the law on health care and insurance and to the insurance of the person are more harmonisation of the law with other laws already adopted and more routine and editorial in nature. For us, it is very important Article 1 of the bill, since it follows in essence whether it is against the interest of a number of farmers who are voluntarily involved in insurance under the Pension Insurance Act and on this basis are also insured under the Health Insurance Act, for a slightly smaller amount of rights than full ones in the first sense, in this case not for the right to compensation for the loss of income for the time of sickness or injury. However, the damage to agricultural activities, which is quite worrying, is mostly large and proportionately long-term for the duration of treatment and rehabilitation, to be sure, irrespective of the slightly higher contributions, means a lot of necessary insurance for everyone, and in this case we certainly support in the parliamentary group. Even where farmers are engaged, an insured person is engaged in agricultural activities as the only and main profession. However, the fact is that many such farmers generate such a small cadastral income that an increased contribution rate resulting from insurance for a wider range of rights is also due to the inability to pay this contribution rate - the exit from insurance. It is precisely because of this possibility and the vaguely produced simulations shown, except for the Ministry of Finance or Tax Administration's warning, that we have installed at the time of consideration on the parent's working body an amendment, with which we have somehow given this opportunity that someone can also voluntarily decide on a smaller scope of rights. This will probably have to be completed today with the amendment tabled and also in the third reading. However, we support and support the amendment of Article 86 of the Basic Law, which is fully in line with Article 18 of the Compulsory Car Insurance or Traffic Insurance Act. We support and realize that insurance companies that protect car damage will generate slightly less profits on this basis, and the health care agency will get the right when it goes to law, while lawyers will serve a little less. The fact is that statements to the public are completely irregular or unrealistic and the car premium is already embedded in this cost, which we also pay in annual insurance. Our Group supports the bill and also supports the two amendments tabled hereafter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u111	Thank you. Ms Stana Stopar now has the floor for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It's a good-bye to all of you. In July 2003, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent a proposal for a Health and Health Insurance Act to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The law brings a relatively large amount of news and is also important in the light of the reform of the health system. The proposal pursues three main objectives. The first objective is to adapt the decision-making procedures on compulsory health insurance rights to the principle of rationality and speed. The proposed amendments to the law seek to remedy shortcomings in decision-making procedures on health insurance rights by setting time limits for individual procedural tasks shorter than now in force. The amendment of the law thus also eliminates non-compliance when the competent authorities, appointed by the doctor and the medical committee, decide by decision and not by decision as it would be appropriate. The second important objective is to regulate the health insurance of farmers. The proposed change in the rights of compulsory health insurance is equivalent to that of farmers not necessarily included in pension and disability insurance with farmers involved in such insurance. It is therefore possible to enforce all compulsory health insurance rights, including the right to compensation for incapacity to work, which, of course, also entails the consequent obligation to pay contributions. The third objective makes it easier for the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to obtain data. The proposed amendments represent better opportunities for better recovery of damage caused by legal or natural persons. The draft law also identifies three databases maintained by the institution for the implementation of the compulsory health insurance and lists the data contained in the individual collection. This change would help to move to the current charging of the data bar of the central register of the population, which would also remove some administrative obstacle and help to rationalise the procedures. The amendments set out in Articles 1, 4 and 8 have raised quite a number of dilemmas and debates. One of the concerns to Article 1 was that the proposed amendment would significantly increase the financial burden on farmers. The fact is that only that group of agricultural insurers voluntarily involved in pension insurance and who also wants a wider range of health insurance rights is newly identified in the proposed law. It is therefore an opportunity for farmers to be included in a larger range of rights. Unfortunately, the text opens up undefined costs, which means that the content of Article 1 must be defined more precisely before the third reading. The proposed amendment to Article 86 of the Act provides that a health care and health insurance institution may require compensation for damage to an insurance undertaking in which a person who has caused health damage by means of a means of transport or the death of an insured person who has entered into compulsory car insurance in all cases is said to have suffered irrespective of how the damage was caused. Under the current rules, the institution has the right to claim damages only if the damage has been caused on purpose or because of gross negligence. For a great deal of negligence is revealed by the court, which is time-consuming, but it is also difficult to prove. The solution, in our view, is the abolition of unnecessary judicial proceedings. That's why we support her. The proposed change would contribute to the efficiency of the institution in recovery, which would also result in a greater flow of funds into the institution and in the recovery of the deficit in its treasury. One of the issues surrounding this Article was the comparison of the reduction of the liability threshold with other cases of regressive entitlements, where the level of guilt is still limited to slander and gross negligence. With such a proposed solution, public announcements of an urgent increase in the premium of compulsory car insurance have already been made to the insurance company. The Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the insurance company, however, in our opinion, must agree on the damages. We therefore believe that the route outlined by the amendment of Article 86 of the Law is legal, since the costs of treating injury and rehabilitation incurred on purpose or because of the great negligence of the Causer cannot be the subject of solidarity and solidarity principles, but is only subject to adequate, individual insurance or individual liability.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u113	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u114	minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u115	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u116	I apologize for being so sure it was more. The majority of Members in the Group are in favour of supporting a framework solution, and that is why we will support this law and at the same time both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you. Comrade Sašo Peče, position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u118	Your Honors are here! In the opening presentation of the position of the Slovenian National Party Group, we would like to touch upon our assessment of the partially positive impact of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, in the part which we estimate could lead to positive solutions both on the one hand around the deficit in the material treasury, meaning in a hole and, on the other hand, to a more correct, fair sharing of the so-called profit. The existing health insurance system in our country is one of the more complex, on the one hand, in the form of the number of laws, as well as in the form of the number of sub-laws. Of course, according to our assessment, this number of laws and regulations creates non-transparency, which, on the one hand, enables unjustifiable "enrichment" [[affluence in noodles]] mainly by the capital companies due to our legislation and thus to the impossible view of financial transactions. Unwarranted wealth of capital companies, of course, probably none of us would mind if this wealth were not accounted for after our assessment of the health system or insurance system within our country. According to data also mentioned by one of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, i.e. the annual profit in the difference of 51 to 30 billion Slovenian tolars, i.e. the difference of 20 billion Slovenian tolars, we are convinced that part of this amount could be devoted to reducing this hole, namely the health hole, right through the adoption of this law or the amendment of the Act. If, at the beginning of the presentation of the Slovenian National Party Group, we have discussed the fraud of the health insurance system, it is reasonable to point out in the opening presentation that the system itself has been strongly affected by the health law, in particular Article 86, which ordered the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to carry out the need for proof. According to our assessment, the amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, allows for the exact opposite path as it has been so far. This means that it makes it possible to issue a regression request from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance to insurance companies and thus, according to our assessment - and we believe that even after the proposaler's assessment - there will be that reverse branch of transfer, that is, a financial transfer that could also result in a reduction of the health hole. At the same time, according to our assessment, which is another argument, why we will support the proposal of the law, in particular taking into account the status of the health insurance institution as a public institution, and, on the other hand, the issue of insurance companies as capital forms, i.e. equity companies, and their poor control. Once again, as far as Slovenian policy is concerned, Slovenian political parties are able to decide when to create a deficit in basic health care and, on the other hand, to create a profit that would otherwise cover this hole, we are convinced in the National Party that we must take a step towards the health insurance institution and prevent unjustifiable wealth that is later reflected in that hole that is burdening everything in order. We will support the bill in the National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 28 October 2003. In the review, we have an amendment to Article 1 and to Article 8. I am putting to the debate Article 1, paragraph 1, and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. My friend Stanislav Brenčič wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, the proposaler wants, as we have already said in the debates of the groups of Members, to make, in my opinion, a good move to allow a large part of those farmers who are becoming more than one year after year who are voluntarily insured for pension and disability insurance, including finally full insurance in the context of health insurance. And, of course, it's appropriate for every insured person to have to pay a little more. I have to say, when I began to look at myself on the basis of this article and teach myself about the situation in this area, that I needed quite a lot of effort to somehow get my hands on some clear ideas, because the matter is quite, I would say, misplaced and often not fully entangled in the articles of the law. However, it was then found also on the basis of some of the simulations or materials made by the tax administration and also in many respects that a rather nice number of insured persons who are voluntarily insured in pension and invalidity insurance are so weak that they are practically represented by an increased contribution rate to the full insurance of health insurance rights that they are somehow unable to pay this and consequently even to withdraw from insurance. What is, from our basic basis, is that as far as possible, all citizens should be protected for the full range of rights in health care - somehow contradictory. That is why I have tried my best and to influence the very constructive work of the Health Committee to resolve this issue by giving this opportunity to someone who can also voluntarily opt for insurance for a smaller amount of rights. Clearly, this was also unanimously supported by the Committee, and then there was a debate or a certain concern that only the t definition, to such an option, would lead to an abuse of this option. And in this context, we were looking for a solution, which was hard to get again, but time was running out, so we, as a parliamentary group, have also tabled an amendment to open an article so that we can discuss it today and change it, and the amendment, that we have transposed the rules of conditions to the competent minister in order to establish this matter by means of an act, by means of a regulation. However, it remains somehow open that this is possible, but it would be even better to combine the new sixth paragraph that we adopted on the committee as an amendment, and now, with the seventh paragraph, with this amendment, we want to protect or prevent abuse, but it makes sense that even all of this matter would somehow fall into some more appropriate material. Therefore, I certainly appeal to the National Assembly to accept this amendment - not because there is only one parliamentary group or we, a coalition, we have simply been in time trouble, but we would like to make this sensitive topic workable and useful and correct in practice. I'm so in favour of supporting this amendment. That'll be all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u121	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok has a word to discuss. My friend Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Secretary-General. In fact, I think we need to talk a little bit about the situation in our agriculture. If I understand this proposal correctly, Article 1 of this Law, this proposal is now extending the range of voluntary insurers. So far, farmers in those farms that were too small to be included in compulsory pension insurance have been able to join the voluntary pension scheme. For this voluntary pension insurance, monthly contributions were paid, I do not know if this information is accurate, about 7,000 tolars, and now all these farmers will have to pay a mandatory contribution to health insurance, whose height is not defined in this law, of course, The question is whether the Slovenian farmer will be able to manage all these benefits, which are somehow imposed on him at the time when Slovenia enters the European Union. We are all aware of and aware of the fact that we should be aware of the fact that, at the time of Austria's entry into the European Union, there has been an extraordinary fall in prices in the agricultural field and we are faced with something similar. At the same time, I would like to point out, of course, that as far as our agricultural work is concerned, we can peacefully conclude that our agriculture at the entry into the European Union at this moment is not prepared in any way as Austrian agriculture has been prepared. Our farms are on average 4 times smaller than those in neighbouring Austria. However, at the time of Austria's entry into the European Union, former Minister of Agriculture Rigler set up a large-scale civil movement called the Eco-social Forum and was established precisely for the reason that the State, as such, also through the civil institutions of society, was helping to protect their agricultural population. With us, however, one feels that new and new burdens lie at the burden of this farm life, and that this is also one part of the operationalization of this white book, the minister of the white book, which I do not know how many places it speaks of solidarity, the solidarity of the shared burdens, and in fact, it is possible, in the first law he proposed, to find that this is not the case. So this solidarity is somehow now shrinking and shifting to the shoulders of a particular population in this space. Of course, we can ask ourselves if this part will be able to do so in this situation. I read somewhere that Slovenian farmers currently owe SPIZ about 7 billion unpaid obligations and that many farmers have rented loans, mortgaged farms to get rid of these burdens. Of course, what happens if they don't pay off mortgage loans is another story? What we know from the days of pre-war Yugoslavia will happen when certain farms come and go to the so-called sick. This is already happening today, that farms are being sold at a price and that certain gentlemen, in our country, call them gentlemen from Ljubljana, are buying at a price. That's what's going on. The government should have information and account for this situation. The health service has financial problems, but I am sure that it will not be able to solve them with such solutions. Earlier, what my fellow Member said would happen, Mr Drobnič, that farmers would step out of the pension scheme and somehow count on nothing to happen to them and that they would wait for that age of 65 when they would receive a legally provided state pension. This seems to me to be a more realistic scenario of this story, as I personally believe that in a situation where price-market relations are increasingly unfair, when prices of agricultural products are getting lower, while prices of other repromaterials are increasing and we are trying to fill this price gap with a direct payment system, all institutions in countries, now obviously also health-care stores, and accounts, how these direct payments that farmers get back to themselves, to the state budget, that such a way of thinking simply cannot be sustained and that only the worst in this system will be carried back to themselves by farmers. That observation he made, I think that the secretary of the Slovenian Farmers' Union, in order to make it best for this country to adopt a law that would be passed by the law on euthanasia of Slovenian farmers, is entirely in place in these thoughts, such as those present in this country. Those of you who have a majority who decide on these matters, think carefully about what solutions you will bring, because without Slovenian agriculture there is no rural area, and without rural areas it is not possible to count on a satisfactory life in Slovenian cities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u123	Thank you. The word has magic. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u124	The system of insurance, both pension and disability insurance and health insurance, must be geared towards the characteristics of Slovenian farms. Slovenian farm and Slovenian land are truly fragmented. With such a proposal, as I have already pointed out, it may be due to low incomes, and because of the acute market situation, more and more small farmers, small owners of such small farms, will give up this pension insurance and, of course, will have an impact on pension insurance payments, in the fund. This, however, continues the operation of Slovenia, or it may be a policy of political comassations in Slovenia. Other financial systems of state transfers are also going this way. Subsidies are directed – subsidies from these European funds can virtually apply to a larger farmer in order to fulfil the role that, in short, it has a critical mass. Indemnities due to neurons, hails, and I don't know what else - all these little ones are eliminated. Everything is being excluded from this system; however, one part of the population is living off it and I do not think that this proposal is appropriate even in terms of ensuring the financial stability of the funds. In addition, it will be possible to abuse those who have something but have financial revenues only to benefit from it. In short, a poorly crafted provision. Perhaps the idea itself at first sight could be a good exercise. It's not appropriate, it's really not appropriate, the consequences will be bad. Something similar will happen to that health insurance law in the previous year, where the Ombudsman may tell you in a year that you have been acting professionally very problematic. Also from the point of view of ensuring rights. You know, it's also not good that you're changing things about rights, about something else that's not better, and then you're putting it back. In terms of sustainability and public security, this is harmful. It's an extremely harmful thing to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendments? If not, I will conclude and put to the debate Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1 and to Article 8 and the amendment to Article 8 of the LDS MPs and to the Members' groups of the United Nations, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS by Article 8. I'm opening a debate. Leopold Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will not be able to support the amendment to Article 8, because I do not think it is necessary at this point. I must say that I basically think that we should do as was suggested in the introduction; that we should take a little more time and prepare certain things - if I say so - on both sides or in particular on both sides; that is, in the health insurance company - if I speak very precisely - and insurance companies. The intention of this proposal is going in the right direction - what should be happening now and it is really sad that we should not accept any amendments to do what we should have done. If I'm talking about insurance companies right now, it's very clear that insurance companies should be paying already - I'm going to say very ugly and rough and hard - except for the repair of the sheet to fix the man. This is in what they offer us - as we have already heard - written down. That's what it says in Article 18 - I think it's 18. - insurance law. This article also points to this. And here, at least as far as I'm concerned, there's no dilemma. On the other hand, I must say that I am sure, as well as the health insurance company so far - perhaps this is the beginning - has not done everything that this matter should also be carried out - in the past. And we have this thing the way it is. Then comes this story where several people are supposed to write this matter more accurately. It would probably be a diction of how much she looked like this one. In the meantime, as we have heard from the Minister, there is an agreement where insurance companies - if I understand correctly - also agree to pay for the part of these damages. By making sure that at the moment we do not know either one, or the other, or the third, whether that is and on what basis is being covered by this, what are the costs on one side of these claims actually. At this point, I have to say, I don't care how much profits the insurance companies have, because I don't think that's the most important thing for us to make. We cannot decide on such serious matters as this burden on the basis of whether insurance companies have more or less profits. It doesn't matter right now. Insurance companies have to pay to the State - or not to the State, to the insured - for the treatment caused by this damage. That's a fact, and of course there's nothing else here. But why do I object? I object for a simple reason, because this will end again at some linear increase in the price of compulsory car insurance, in which, as is now the case, we have some unlimited solidarity, where we are all guilty of it, we all pay as much as we need for this measure, and we will all pay as much in the future. We've heard stories in the middle, the first moment of 30%, and I don't know how much percentage increase in the price of this insurance. Now the passions have calmed down a little bit and we hear stories about a little bit smaller, but at the end of the day, no one knows exactly how much they should pay, how much they've already paid, how much they take, what's used in the health insurance company for these things. And that's why I think it's necessary to complete these things in an absolute way. No obstacles - by the way - have been said, at least to my understanding that insurance companies and insurance companies would not have reached an agreement by now, if I didn't know how many billions and three half billion, that this would have been realized by the contract they were already talking about this year. You don't need the law or the amendment or anything at this point. And let it be realized. I'm defending it. In the meantime, when we get to the right dictatorship, to the law and to all the information we need, I am sure that insurance companies should also get to a new system - or a different, complementary system - of insurance; where - I will say, on the basis of some other countries where this is already done - where, of course, not only prices will be built on the basis of needs and costs, but they will, of course, be differentiated when they have in some countries, at some point in the final stage of the night, no insurance company will be insured, but they will eventually come up with a very special fund, where this insurance is extremely expensive. Why not? That, too. Let them divide the costs into those that cause accidents more, higher-a-vis those that cause less, etc. But this is the system that needs to be done. You can't do that in two hours or two days. Therefore, I am thinking that the current situation, which should already be settled, is being remedied in some way by concluding this agreement, which was discussed, that the insurance companies pay their share on the basis of this agreement, that the preparation of this system at the same time be somewhat more orderly, insurance, and that health care, as Mr Minister has said, comes to an accurate number in this area, and that, of course, then we can face these two issues, and then we can really write into this law what should be written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u127	Thank you. The word is Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u128	Just for a little while. I listened very carefully to the Minister. Mr Minister said that he expects 3.5 billion Slovenian Tolars from insurance companies. Insurance companies claim that this cost has not been charged to insurance premiums so far, the outcome is simple: they will increase premiums for Slovenian insurance companies. It's simple logic and we're making, and of course everything we can get out of this, if we want to change it, we're going to change this law again in a few months, which we're adopting today. That's how I imagine this thing, maybe it's really simplified, but I guarantee you - and also because of the magnetogram I said it: that's the way it's going to go. And when we change the law, I will read again, as I said on October 29, 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u129	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I, of course, felt kind of good after the performance of my fellow Kremlin fellow because I saw precisely that there was no subject of problem Article 1. The subject of the problems and the transposition of this law is referred to in Article 8. Excuse me? It's clear to me, no. I will certainly be the amendment that I have signed for the Group of Members, because I think it is meaningful and necessary. With the amendment to this article, we have adopted a slightly more specific text on the working body, in which we have written "health disorder". This term is never used in constitutional law, but "injury" and "infirm" are always used. And it is necessary, because of the sense of equal understanding of things throughout the law, to correct this and there is no argument that this amendment of the four groups of Members should not be supported. And the other is the content of the article, which I'm going to tell you about. I strongly support this article. And I say one thing: they do not have any entitlement to insurance companies that provide services in their portfolio or compulsory insurance under the Act on Compulsory Insurance in Transport, including the obligation they have to the health insurance institution. The amount of the premium shall contain this. However, because they do not do so because they are bound by an awkward dictatorship that the beneficiary to whom this compensation goes has to pay for the treatment of his insured person for the injury caused to him by the insured person, where the insurance undertaking has an insurance premium, a premium concluded, to prove that this insured person has caused great negligence or intentional injury. This is crazy! They served as lawyers and because the insurance company did not have to settle these damages from its own fund, but through the amount of the premiums created and therefore has great profits. And if we are aware of the seriousness of cash health insurance, in which we are all, and expect the exercise of our rights, then that is right what we have done. The Act on Compulsory Insurance on Transport speaks as follows: Article 18, and the legal obligation of the insurance undertaking, when the premiums are concluded, has no agreement. Things that are the subject of foreign insurance companies, Lloyd and so on, are settled immediately to the health insurance requirements. There are no charges unless I have the wrong information. I've been watching this for years. The law speaks like this, so we will not say an agreement - no, we can agree at the inn, whether we drink two coffees or just one capuccino, in that sense. Article 18 of the Act states: "The insurance of car liability also covers the compensation claims of health, pension and disability insurance institutions established in accordance with the health insurance rules and the proportional part of contributions to pension and disability insurance." Also for a proportionate part of the contributions. And this premium cannot be designed differently than on the basis of the law and obligations which the insurance undertaking has to the health insurance institution. And I know that too long, too long, because of such and different interests, and that the problem with this law arose one day before we started this treatment on the parent's working body, although the insurance company Triglav had gone rogue and was worried about her big profit. And the problem with the adoption of this law will be just that. Nothing else: not shortening the procedural deadlines that are needed, and also securing farmers for a greater range of rights, which is also necessary, human and life. That's the problem. And that shouldn't be a problem, because it's a marriage basis. And implementation is a premium and the creation of a majority premium based on the law. And it's clear, all of them, one harder, the other a little easier, they dig up money when they register or re-register a car. And it's clear what it means to us to be without that possibility and I don't see it. And the insurance company Triglav rushed with such a statement that the media would also send other information to their informed people by their letter or their public media house. That way we will fully support the amendment because it is necessary, and also an article as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you. Tone Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u132	The force would be easy if we went in line and simply realized that we are saving one segment today, one small fraction of the loss in the institution and nothing else. After all, it is that this is recorded in the law, and I am surprised that this is not being done. But it must be made very clear and clear that the truth is multilayered, that the health insurance institution and the entire health system do not have a review of the costs and the accounting system by which it could apply it. I am convinced that if the Health Insurance Office has consistently issued invoices and also this article of the law, which is indisputably clear and which speaks of the fact that in auto-insurance we also pay insurance costs, that this would not be on the table today, that this would not be a question. Clearly, as long as the health insurance agency simply came with a modified rate of contribution - in the National Assembly we last changed it by 0.2%; then even the proposal to increase more, but they said no, because we do not need so much because we are missing just that much. In the years leading up to that, a few years ago, even the institution had serious profits or income remnants. And there was no need for officials in the institution to deal with complicated long-term procedures, to force together with the Ministry of Health of the health institution in the field of health to enforce all these regression claims in the manner regulated in the second law. So that those of us who have secured cars also pay the cost of treatment from that title. That's actually what this is about. After listening to the Minister and the Director of the Health Insurance Office, the President or the Director of the Insurance Association, it is precisely because there is no system, even comparable, that they have not taken it from any other country - they have one in Italy, they have another in Austria and so on - there is a combination here, a mix. I absolutely support the proposal to cover all these costs from one title. If it comes from traffic damage, it should be covered from these insurance companies. But I am against the fact that in a modern Robinhud way, in this national council, they say, there's money, let's go out there and look for it, and tomorrow, when there's no reserve, there'll be a loss in the institution, and we'll go to another address to look for this money. That's not good. I think it is right that we make a system that will clearly determine the title from which it is covered. There has also been a speech here that we are not likely if Mr Kelemina has any objections, you can, if I quote you, even have a replica, or else you can make your contribution to the discussion. [[...]] It is also certain that we all, of course, are health insurance and are paying a contribution. I'd like to see how much from that address is one type of treatment, how much is it from the other. It is only that if this law contributes to temporarily covering one part of the loss from insurance companies, if the information is correct, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and Insurance Association shall discuss how to systematically regulate it. After all, someone has already spoken here. Today, insurance companies are operators on the market, some are state-owned, others are private, and to some point we can get involved in their business, and on the other hand, the creation of a premium for this insurance is free on the market. And, of course, under control and in agreement with the Insurance Agency and the Supervisory Office, they also coordinate this. And if, as I said, it will gradually come to this in 2004, as I understand it, there is a flat-rate account, not because of it - at least that's how I understood all of these interlocutors - because insurance companies would not respect what every insured person signs with it, but simply because no one has given the account at this point or can give the account after the end of the types of damage, etc. After all, as I understand it, it is also necessary to regulate this flow of data from the police to insurance companies, so that the police directly manage the institution or any other institution and, of course, that these things, as I have already said, will be transparent. I am advocating a solution that has been made with the Minister to cover the damage caused and the insurance provided for under this Title. I wonder, of course, why this marriage has not yet been realized in that work, the other one that has been discussed here. But this is just a rhetorical question, because in the previous part of implementation I have already partly answered myself, and I hope that in the future it will be on the health side, and so I also understand part of the health reform, that there is actually an extension for this material part and covering it also in such a way that, of course, insurance companies have one part of these things to deal with.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you. Stanislav Brenčič was also reported and then Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u134	As I have changed the business report of the Health Insurance Office since 2000, there is no "stammering" in the institution. Things are pretty obvious. However, it is certainly based on such a doctrine as that the institution must demonstrate a great deal of negligence or intention, but indeed a great deal of "suffering" carried by such lawyers; of course, the insurance company is the first to be interested because it will be left with the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you. I'd rather give it to my colleague Anderlich so that we can get a better answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u136	Of course, I wasn't talking about "stammering." But I was talking about it being a easier way, and if you don't show up, no one's gonna pay for it. But when we talk about those cases - I think that one percent or how many percent of these things are resolved in the courts - is of course a thing when two parties understand each other. In this case, however, I am so sensitive that we have, I don't know, five, six or I don't know how many insurance companies, and that only one insurance company obviously has big profits within this type of insurance, but not the rest. That is why it seems to me that this is a consistent implementation of the law, including the one already in force. And this is true of all: the person who suffers damage, in this case a health insurance institution, because he has to pay from this title treatment and because, of course, it did not take place on the other hand where the insured person was, of course, a hole had to be built somewhere and the shorter end was taken away by the health insurance and health care institution as well as the whole. That is why I am pleading for systemic regulation and, ultimately, confirming what is already - and I have also thought from this title that we are paying something.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u137	Minister, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u138	Of course, I support this article and this solution. Let me tell you why. Because it is the will of citizens to contribute and not the will of insurance companies of these or others to contribute where they actually expect their risk to contribute to the payment of damages. There is no reason - and probably there was never - that, for example, a person at the age of 90, this moment I think of my mother, who was never behind the wheel, should have to pay for the health damage that occurs in a country where people are three times more affected than ever. And I also don't understand those comments when you say that we don't have a Malus bonus in the car system - of course we have it. And if we transfer something to car insurance, which should be, it will work in any way, perhaps even if it is necessary, which we are not sure, to increase premiums because I hope that those who do not do car accidents will be forgiven or their premiums reduced. That's exactly what we didn't have in health insurance and we can't have. We cannot make a special difference within the many risks we pay and many diseases because someone in car insurance does no harm. This means that it makes sense that this thing is being eliminated, all over the world. Allow me to ask -- no one today, but maybe someone in this room knows the answer -- why did the Health Insurance Act give rise to the doctrine of "especially great negligence" and "especially great harm"? Although I do not know who wrote this down, I will say at least that I do not believe that this was written by the health insurance agency, which was almost a reliable candidate for this law. That means there were other interests at the time. There were pressures, there might have been protection of car insurance; it simply seemed that the bag of health care was very large and that we would cover it for a while. And today I really wonder whether it is right for us now to demand up to the last hair cost for last year, I say that the costs have been globally shown in particular because on the other hand I believe the arguments of car insurance companies. We can't ask them to tell us what profit is, what reservations are. We can't ask them to do that! This means that those who say we demand more data are actually collecting data so that car insurance knows more about how much to raise premiums. I don't agree or support this kind of thinking. I am sure that on the side of the private interest in which the state cannot interfere and I agree with this logic; but there is a good chance of competition and if someone overly supports, too much premiums, thank God, there will be another insurance company and maybe different premiums and they will respond in this way. I am not afraid that the premiums would grow excessively, and today no one among us probably wants or does not know the answer to the question whether the car insurance is already included in its premium all the risks imposed on them by car insurance and the health insurance burden. In this logic, it affects this data, what does car insurance have in its premium today, and this time is not ready to say, and on our side, when we come with the right costs, it will show that the final real increase in the premium, which I hope - not only I hope - will also affect competition. That is why I think that it is not even possible to correct this article in any way, except, of course, this correction, which is before you today in the form of an amendment, but that we will not add anything further within one month because we simply comply with or coordinate two laws, car insurance and health insurance, coordinate and transfer the risks from car accidents to that insurance which must also be covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. At this point, we should break the point, unless, of course, if anyone is ready to discuss it, then we should proceed with the remaining items on the programme, because the time is for the next item of the agenda. But if you can be very brief, Comrade Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u140	I'll be very brief. The data that the Minister is talking about are also needed to break down or possibly substantiate doubts that he is in insurance - when colleague Brenčič spoke about those billions of profits also because they did not pay for it, but should know how much it is. In the conversations we have had, I have said several times: it needs to be known that health care needs to know the cost of the patient from the moment he is injured, when he is brought by ambulance to a clinical center, for example, until he leaves the clinical center. And the sum of all of these is what insurance companies have to pay. To avoid misinterpretation, Comrade Brenčič, I have begun with the fact that insurance companies have to pay for this and that they should already pay. But I'm talking about both sides, because there are certain things that need to be settled on both sides, according to my judgment. And also, yes, we have a bonus and a small one. [[More Bonus Than Malus]] But a broken-down insurance system has a lot more, from risk groups to not knowing everything, not to mention because I'm not an expert in this area. And we don't have that. And that's why we only have building - I'm talking about insurance companies now - building premiums based on some general costs and needs, I'll say, these institutions. But it's something, and I'm gonna get it over with. At this point, it's an illusion that insurance companies won't raise their price, today or two months from now, they're really illusions. They will do so and there are no mechanisms to prevent them from doing so because they are on the market, except that there are other insurance companies that will offer a cheaper option, which would make me very happy to say the truth. That is why I say that the system needs to be further developed, including what is written, but much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you, fellow Kremjar. This concludes the debate. Despite our limited time, we've brought the point to an end. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting at 21.45 p.m. and therefore interrupt this item on the agenda. Thank you for your attention and cooperation!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u142	Your Honor! We're moving on to 26. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE 8. REVENUE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS FOR THE YEAR 2002 The 8th periodic report was presented by the Ombudsman for consideration by the assembly, and I also welcome him, together with his colleagues and colleagues, as well as the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give my word to the Ombudsman for further explanation of the report. Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u143	Dear Members and honourable Members, the distinguished Minister and other representatives of the Government, the public and the President-in-Office! First of all, I would like to thank the National Assembly for including the debate on the Ombudsman's report at the first possible meeting, and in particular for a comprehensive and ambitious debate at the Internal Policy Committee meeting, which was just two more. This shows a respectful attitude toward people’s problems, and this is a serious intention to correct mistakes and solve the problems they face. I would also like to thank the Government for its response to the report, as it has made very quick comments on it and has thus shown a serious attitude towards solving the pressing social problems. The government analysed the findings of the report without delay, and it wrote a comprehensive opinion on them. We also discussed the report extensively, once at the entire government meeting, and once in a close composition of the Prime Minister with some elected ministers. Discussions on the resolution of specific problems with individual ministers or their co-workers are thus a constant form of communication to address irregularities in the functioning of the country. In last year's introductory speech on this site, I noted to the government that there is an uneven and unregulated collection of opinions from different sources; in short, there is a lack of a comprehensive view of the government on the issue of human rights. Fortunately, I don't have to do this again this year, on the contrary. The government's opinion on the Ombudsman's report is with the exception of one ministry, which I will return to further, comprehensively, and shows that all departments have done the same serious work this year to solve human rights violations in Slovenia. To begin with, the report shows the work of the Ombudsman in 2002. I stress this because there have been some misunderstandings in past discussions. The fact is that some of the problems, shortcomings, or errors described in this report have already been resolved this year. This difference was presented as an incorrect statement by the Ombudsman. However, it is not a matter of inaccuracies, especially for the necessary and correct warning of the shortcomings that have been addressed by the individual departments in the meantime. This "disagreement," [[In noodles]] , if we can say so, it is necessary to assign the time limit for the period considered to the calendar year and the discussions on the report. Now that we are discussing this in the National Assembly, the most recent information from the report has been 10 months old. In order to avoid such problems in the future, the report will be submitted as soon as possible in the following year in March, although the legal deadline for the submission is set for September. But I'm asking the National Assembly to deal with it as soon as possible. The President of the National Assembly and I have already talked about this and supported the idea, which I particularly thank him for. The next problem I want to raise here is the Ombudsman's competence to oversee the work of state authorities at any stage and the rights of people to complain if they think these authorities are not acting in accordance with the rules. Although the vast majority of public authorities have accepted the existence of the Ombudsman's institution, there are others who either deny the Ombudsman's right or do not respond to his written requests for clarifications or respond with much delay after repeated warnings. I reiterate that all authorities are obliged to provide the Ombudsman with all the information required, whether it makes sense to them or not. We will insist on this, not because of the caprice, but because of the right of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and other people living here to live in an environment where human rights are not violated. This also applies to certain professional associations and their honorable judgments, although they are not State bodies. But when the law gives them certain powers and powers, their work is subject to public control, including the supervision of the Ombudsman. Often these individual professional associations act more as protector of the poor work of their members than in the role of raising professional ethics in their field. The professionalism of such associations is particularly important because it is up to them to decide on their own expertise. Therefore, it is essential that they overcome the concept of their work only as protectors of their own members and become protectors of professionalism, even though they do come into conflict with their members who work recklessly or do not respect professional ethics. At the outset, I mentioned the positive shift in the attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the Ombudsman's report in the report, and there are also some inconsistencies which can be attributed in most ways to the different views of the Government and the Ombudsman to the same problem. We certainly can't attribute that to inaccuracies. It is normal that views and understanding between the two institutions are different. The Ombudsman’s view of society is not based on an average analysis, but on an analysis of the problems that arise in society. It consists primarily of initiatives it receives. It represents some kind of [[In noodles]] "a negative view of society." A look at those areas that still need to be regulated. It is about finding faults in the functioning of a system that are fortunately less than correct. But one mistake is too much. Often, individual state institutions do not understand and oppose the presentation of individual errors, if that is an exception. However, since the Ombudsman's report is also intended for education, we also present individual, particularly grave, violations in order to remedy these errors. Thus, among all government departments, only the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy does not take sufficient account of this specific view of the Ombudsman. Thus, they argue that it is not really the guardian’s warning that the inspectorate for the environment and space does not respond to certain roles of individuals. This is not true, for we can serve with more than ten complaints from last year. It can also be understood from the opinion that the main obstacle to the work of inspectors should be the neighbours and investors and the Ombudsman. The same Ministry also argues that thinking in the report on the inadequate resolution of housing problems of the poorest segments of the population in the housing law is a misunderstanding of the new law. In this case, too, there are different perspectives and assumptions. Our opinion on inadequacy stems from the fact that the abolition of the category of social housing and the abandonment of this problem will reduce opportunities for people with lower incomes. The abolition of the term of social housing itself shows a decrease in the sensitivity of society to social problems in a country where the Constitution says it is social. If our predictions are wrong, I'd be happy to apologize. At work, we also often see that individual institutions spend an unusual amount of time and energy to justify why they cannot or cannot do. They also often prove the wrong conduct of other institutions, rather than doing their job properly. As an example, sometimes administrative units refuse enforcement on the basis of a decision of the Centre for Social Work. Instead of doing their job, they embark on the issue of whether the Centre’s decision is inadequate or appropriate. In such cases, it must intervene with the Ministry, either for internal affairs or for work, family and social affairs, and protect professionalism. Your Honor! The fact is that the government is primarily responsible for respect for human rights and the Ombudsman can only be its controller; and [[In noodles]] "Bad news." However, when reviewing the most important violations that we have been familiar with in our work, I must conclude that the type of infringements from year to year is the same. I have to mention the court's backlog here in particular. On the other hand, it is true that many things change for the better. If I am allowed to slightly exceed last year's time frame, I note that a number of problems mentioned in the report will be resolved or will be resolved this year. This indicates a changed attitude towards the guardian’s warnings and, more so, a changed attitude towards the needs and desires of the people. I can hope that these individual positive movements will continue. I have no particular intention of summarizing the issue which has been dealt with more precisely in the report, because I believe that you have read it accurately. This is also reflected in the debate at the Committee's meeting. I am also convinced that in the coming years we will be even more determined to address and prevent the violations that will be detected. I also wish that the violations we are seeing now would become increasingly exceptions and excesses as a rule. Our common concern, however, is to focus on identifying and preventing future problems, as well as making people aware of the rights they have, promoting human rights, preventing discrimination of all kinds and intolerance. Last but not least, there's a big problem that we're not aware of, but we're going to have to. I therefore welcome the proposal for a decision by the National Assembly to set up an anti-discrimination policy in Slovenia and to weigh the need for an institution to deal in particular with these problems. We are not only bound by the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the European Commission against racism and racial discrimination and the directives of the European Community, but mainly by the attitude towards and among our own countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Ombudsman. The 8th regular annual report was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy as the parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Before I begin this presentation, of course, thank you to the Ombudsman for giving a gift to the members and members of the Internal Policy Committee -- at least as I understood it. It is so rare to hear praise that I think it is right to thank you on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues for this observation. First, I would say that the Committee considered this report at the meeting and then suspended the work and continued the meeting after the Government has also drawn its conclusions on the Ombudsman's report. We came to this because we realized that it would be good to hear the opposite. I think it is necessary to say that in addition to the Ombudsman's participation in the committee: the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the representative or Vice-President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Bar, the Acting Director of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Religious Communities, and, of course, the members of the Committee have been very busy with their discussions. After the Ombudsman’s opening statement, which had brought forward the problems that he still faces in his work, this part, which concerns judicial backlogs and, due to an unreasonable trial, first said his opinion or circumstances and, of course, their findings by a representative of the Ministry of Justice. I must say that the debate here is even more concerned with the content of judicial backlogs than, for example, it is only when the Ombudsman's report is examined. However, it is also necessary to say that this problem occurs, i.e. an unreasonable trial, every year before us in other reports. This would be recalled by all colleagues and colleagues in the State Defence Report, where it is noted that the European Court is already granting compensation in not so small amounts precisely because our citizens are not entitled to this constitutional right. He then, of course, took the floor as a representative of the interior ministry, who explained some of the problems in the area of administrative backlogs - in particular, I think this is about denationalisation and the like. The discussions followed by a representative of the Attorney General's Office, a representative of the Bar, where I think I have to point out, in particular, that he was not present at the first meeting or that he was in the following session and said that the Ombudsman's findings on the functioning of the Bar or on disciplinary action against the female lawyers were serious and that they were detected and, of course, they had begun to be resolved. Well, the representative of the Supreme Court, of course, took part in that part of the judicial backlog, but, as it is said, at that time, we felt that this should be given special attention. Therefore, the Internal Policy Committee will face the issue of judicial backlogs at one of its meetings. Now we know it's coming next month, 6. So, the discussions that followed - it would be a shame to tire you - followed in particular the content of the problems you have as a sub-paragraph 8 of this report. Well, and on this basis and, of course, also with the Ombudsman - I must stress this in particular - a decision has been drawn up with recommendations that we accept as we do every year. We therefore propose the adoption of these recommendations with some silent desire that some of those listed here will no longer have to be written or accepted in the coming year in order to make good arrangements in that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. Representative of the government, Minister of Justice, Mr Bizjak please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u147	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At the time of its consideration of the Ombudsman's annual report, the government has drawn up an extensive opinion, which we have already heard, in which it attempts to present all that has been done to remedy the irregularities and shortcomings mentioned by the Ombudsman in his report. At the same time, the opinion also presents a somewhat broader presentation of the issue from the point of view of, of course, the competent ministries and governments as a whole. We have tried to prepare as comprehensive a report as possible, as uniformly as possible. As a result, we have also followed the Ombudsman’s report’s structure so that it is easier to compare views or easier to identify which of the irregularities mentioned in the report have been resolved, which are in liquidation and so on. I am pleased to note that the Ombudsman also considers this opinion of the Government to be appropriate in its entirety as a suitable response to its annual report. I am convinced that this is just a step forward, a step in that direction, in order to remedy as quickly and as quickly as possible violations of the irregularities and shortcomings identified by the Ombudsman in his work. At the same time, the government also submitted to the National Assembly a report on the implementation of the recommendations adopted by this National Assembly last year when the Ombudsman's previous reports were considered. Of course, time does not allow for a more detailed presentation of the findings of the government's opinion. By allowing me only to mention some of the measures, some of the procedures that have been carried out or some of the changes that have occurred in order to actually eliminate all that is evident in the Ombudsman's report. If I go in line, I'm putting myself in danger of missing important achievements that will not be mentioned. Then let me start with an area of equal opportunity between men and women. Last year, a law on equal opportunities for women and men was enacted and a new institution of advocate or advocate of equal opportunities was introduced to deal with individual cases of gender discrimination. With regard to marginalised groups, the government has established a special care programme for marginalised groups, which is still being extended through the national programme. Thus, in the cultural field, for example, in the future, special care will be given not only to ethnic minorities, but at least to disabled people and children. Special attention is also given to raising awareness of rights in this programme. With regard to the spatial distress in penal enforcement institutions, it should be noted that a number of organisational measures have already been implemented in the past period, in particular in terms of the immediate relocation of prisoners from more occupied rooms, departments and institutions. That more attention has been paid to health care, hygiene, in short, to all those problems that are still clearly exacerbated when there is a greater concentration of persons in a restricted area and which therefore needs to be given special attention. During the last period a number of spatial improvements were made in most institutions, one of which is certainly one of the major acquisitions is the re-establishment and renovation of the open section facilities in the Slovenian village near Mirna. It will be particularly important to complete the new construction in Cyprus, which will be completed at the end of this year and where resettlement will be possible at the beginning of next year, as this new construction will not only solve the problem of completely inadequate prison facilities in Cyprus but will also relieve some other institutions. There is also a programme for the spatial development of institutions for the cessation of prison sentences, which will be possible only gradually, in line with financial options which are, of course, limited in this area. There have been a lot of debates about the situation in the judiciary lately, and there will be, including in the Internal Policy Committee, which has already been mentioned. Let me mention, therefore, that, according to our assessment, the decrease in the number of cases in the Ombudsman's case law also indicates that there are still more and more courts and more legal areas in which the proceedings are still ongoing. With regard to the protection of witnesses in criminal proceedings, it should be noted that the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act established a ban on the direct hearing of children, victims of crimes against sexual inviolability and neglect, and cruel treatment by the parent, adoptive parent or person caring for the child. At the same time, on the basis of the amended provisions of the same law, anonymity can also be guaranteed to those witnesses who, as a result of their testimony, might endanger their lives or the lives of relatives. In the area of detention facilities, police renovated detention facilities in several police units last year and also prepared a plan for the renovation and renovation of such premises by 2005. Preparations were started to build a new asylum home in a new location and this project will be completed next summer. With regard to the issue of the number of study places, it should be said that the number of students enrolled in regular undergraduate studies has already increased by almost 10,000 between 1998 and the current school year. I should also mention that the provision of additional professional assistance to long-term sick children and children with disabilities in individual areas of learning has been possible and that the scope of such assistance has exceeded 2,200 hours in the previous school year. In the framework of limited time, allow me also to stress the adoption of a new labour law, which we are assessing to take account of developments in this area and to regulate, as appropriate, the area of labour relations in a comprehensive manner. With regard to the problem of employment and the elimination of unemployment, I should point out that the active employment policy project is a key element in reducing unemployment rates. In doing so, it is particularly important that around 70% of all the funds earmarked for this active policy go to less developed regions, which also face an average level of unemployment. For all measures under the Active Employment Policy Framework, the priority is to be given to persons with reduced employment opportunities, i.e. older persons, persons with disabilities and persons with a low level of education. With regard to non-payment of maintenance, we also estimate that an important step has been taken when the amendment of the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund was abolished within the framework of the entry criteria for obtaining maintenance compensation. So much for some of the measures described more extensively in the Government's opinion. Finally, let me just mention that the government is taking all the Ombudsman's warnings seriously and that we will try to achieve that we will respond even more quickly to all the irregularities, violations and shortcomings detected in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u148	Thank you very much to the representative of the government. We will now hear the views of the groups before the report. First of all, Maja Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Guardian, co-workers, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The work of the Ombudsman is public and his regular annual report is one of the forms of communication that informs the public of respect for human rights in society and of efforts to remedy violations and improve the work of public authorities. As an institution that protects an individual in contact with public authorities, holders of public powers, local authorities and supervises their work, in fact, means the possibility of out-of-court protection of citizens and citizens. The 2002 report was even more extensive than it had been in previous years, although the Ombudsman has dealt with at least the case this year with its co-workers, and for 8% of the cases closed are more than they were open. The report shows that at least some individual cases have been dealt with carefully by the Ombudsman, some of which gives the report greater weight and interest. Infringements are repeated year after year, the political will to change the situation is still insufficient, and despite warnings, state authorities and institutions are still doing little to eliminate them. One of the most important causes of violations of rights is still the lack of awareness of people of their rights and rights of others, and more can be done by existing offices, which are too redefined and under-coordinated. The Ombudsman notes that, in general, state institutions are underactive in the identification and resolution of people's problems and are unable to detect the hardships of those who need help. He's particularly critical until the National Assembly. It draws attention to the unaccepted legislation, to the poorly drafted laws, to violations of the legislation adopted, to the unequal situation of the State and of the individual and to the negligence of the individual services, which are not subject to sanctions and, of course, to the absence of complaint mechanisms and their proper resolution. Most cases are dealt with in the field of judicial and police proceedings, which is a good 26%, the backlogs remain a major problem, as citizens and citizens in many courts must wait up to five years after the action is filed for the main hearing, and it is clear that we cannot talk about the trial within a reasonable time. The Ombudsman notes that there is also a link between judges, prosecutors and lawyers, which raises doubts in particular in smaller places about the correctness of the trial. The question of who is justified for free legal aid also causes a number of problems. It is certainly a vermin of areas that the Ombudsman deals with widely, and we will hear a lot about this in the debate. With regard to our New Slovenia Group, I would like to highlight two areas: denationalisation, where there is still delay in the return of property, and the area of intolerance, in which case I mean specifically to the members of the Roman Catholic Church. Here I think, for example, the burning of the Strunjan Cross in 2002, this year, the coaxing of the koper bells. And there's something else that could've happened. The Ombudsman’s office did not act specifically because he felt that the actors had no intention of offending the feelings of individuals. We are convinced that acts with signs of vandalism cannot be excused by artistic tendencies. His statement is also unacceptable when the archbishop uses his statements to inflame impatience. The act excuses another act. We don't think that's his function. The government's broad opinion on the report is trying to convince us that things are changing for the better, but we still cannot be satisfied. Citizens and citizens still feel this too much, so it is no wonder that more and more people think that Slovenia is not a rule of law. Last year we addressed several appeals to the government and state authorities to improve the situation of judicial and administrative procedures, healthcare, housing rights and denationalisation. The Government shall ensure that amendments are implemented, either through legislation adopted in 2003, through legislative proposals and through guidelines and regulations to improve the situation. However, we would like the Ombudsman to take an even more critical approach to violations and take appropriate views on the phenomena which the important mission also dictates to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u151	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Guardian, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues! As each body in the DeSUS Group, we have thoroughly examined the Ombudsman's report. We are pleased with the comprehensive report. We wonder, however, whether the increased scope represents multiple human rights violations or whether this may be a sign of an increase in the sensitivity of people to violations. In the Ombudsman's report, the DeSUS Group has given special attention to areas that it has paid attention to in previous years. Like last year, a lot of attention is being paid to judicial backlogs. In some cases, while the long procedure is justified if it is necessary to properly resolve the dispute and to reflect compliance with procedural rules, on the other hand, by delaying the procedure, we are violating the fundamental right of a person to a swift trial, which sometimes results in even denying a certain right. It is therefore necessary to consider how to balance both requirements and the desire to seek a swift solution to the proceedings before the courts and to comply with procedural rules, of course assuming that the legislation in force is appropriate. The DeSUS Group is concerned about the Ombudsman's finding that older workers are being bullied because they are more difficult to reach or their performance in years of decline. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is a discriminatory treatment of the older population. We believe that the knowledge of the elderly is invaluable, as it is also based on experience. The pooling of knowledge provided by older ones with the knowledge of younger ones would be an appropriate solution that should be encouraged. Thus, the elderly would not feel that society is overly good, but that society is beneficial. However, discrimination in job seekers is also gender-sensitive. In recent times, employers have developed subtle requirements to satisfy certain conditions that we do not think are warranted. For example, the physical characteristics of job seekers become important, which may otherwise be a special condition under a collective agreement at the level of activity. The rapid amendment of legislation makes it impossible for citizens to review the laws adopted. While we hope that Slovenia's entry into the European Union will stabilise, in some areas the requirements of individual international adaptation organisations will remain. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Ombudsman's initiative to obtain a national human rights institution in Slovenia that not only deals with protection but also with the promotion of human rights. In the end, let me just thank the Ombudsman for his work. In the parliamentary group, we will strive to continue to work towards respect for human rights when adopting legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Respectable Ombudsman, Honourable Minister, Colleagues and Colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are pleased to note that the importance of the annual annual annual report of the Ombudsman is being strengthened. The Ombudsman’s activities have been most involved, and the growing emphasis placed on the Ombudsman’s activities, as well as on the activities of the various organizations and institutions, the local authorities and foreigners that monitor the state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. All of this increases public sensitivity to all forms of human rights violations. Above all, those who hurt the most vulnerable groups of our citizens and citizens. Not to be overly self-sufficient, but the public awareness role is also played by the National Assembly, by considering the report at the plenary session, and by adopting the recommendations addressed to the state institutions mentioned in the annual report. Of course, the effect would be even greater if we followed closely the decision taken by the National Assembly, at the initiative of the United List of Social Democrats, that every law should also be weighed from the point of view of comments and the Ombudsman's comments on an area governed by the law. Therefore, the government's response report, from which the Government's actions and views can be understood, is very welcome, with individual ombudsmen's warnings. It also undoubtedly contributes to greater seriousness if the mandatory component of the government’s response report is a review of the implementation of the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly. The problem with the consideration of the regular annual report is the time distance covered by the problem, since the problem could have been mitigated by changes in the resolution method or by amended legislation. The response report shows improvements in the Police Act, which took into account the recommendations of civil society and the Ombudsman on the urgent increased level of police control in the legal regulation of the appeal procedure. In particular, it should be stressed that the situation of human rights can only be determined by the roles with which individuals have turned to the Ombudsman. However, it cannot be argued that there are no violations in other untreated areas. It therefore seems very important that the behaviour on rights is increasing. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we welcome the various forms of human rights information. As an example, let me mention my right to rights in the field of equal opportunities between women and men, which are brought up by the new labour law, or on the education of police officers. There is also statistics on the membership of new cases, which decreased by 13.1% compared to 2001 and therefore we do not understand as an improvement in the situation of human rights. Much more so has attracted us to the fact that the number of open initiatives in 2002 increased compared to the year 2001 relating to children's rights. This report, however, links this with the creation of a new working group dealing specifically with children's rights. This is particularly true because in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats we have advocated the guardian of children's rights. This increase is linked to the specific effects that such a special body has on the awareness of the extent and weight of a particular phenomenon. We therefore expect that long-term silenced domestic violence with the measures taken and planned will gradually protect the victims, although we agree that problems need to be addressed comprehensively. However, after a thorough reading of both reports, it is possible to partially attach to the government’s response report, which points out several times that these are places of general judgment, for example, the apparent work of social work centres in decision-making in proceedings concerning children’s problems and benefits. At times, however, there are well - founded complaints that are not mass - sized, but they cause dismay and resentment at the incomprehensible gross violation of rights. For although they are truly lonely, they cast a bad light on the whole; otherwise, generally the proper work of an institution. Measures to alleviate social pressures and reduce unemployment through active employment policies indicate a systematic response to the phenomenon of poverty, but call for increased solidarity in society, which is also the programme orientation of the United List of Social Democrats. However, we fully agree with the Ombudsman that it is unacceptable that the type of things in the report are repeated year after year because some things are improving too slowly, not enough or not at all. Let me only draw attention to the problem of tenants of denationalized dwellings, or to deleted legislation on mental health, judicial backlogs and trials in unreasonablely long-term. The assessment of carelessness, the lack of sensitivity for people in need of assistance, in many institutions, is, however, severe. However, in particular the individual cases mentioned at the end of the report confirm it. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we take very seriously the Ombudsman's warnings about the phenomenon of intolerance and discrimination. Article 6 of the Labour Relations Act, commonly referred to as anti-discrimination, is only one example of the appropriate legal regulation of specific areas and contributes, we hope, to the formulation of anti-discrimination policies in the country of Slovenia Finally, let me say that the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support the adoption of the recommendations. Otherwise, we thank the Ombudsman, this voice-enhancing weak, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats for the work done, and we want his work to have the greatest possible effect in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Brejc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The Ombudsman's 2002 recommendations cover many areas as well as all previous years. In fact, it's very similar to last year's. It contains violations that have occurred in the past, so that one feels that there is nothing new in this report, only fatter. Therefore, the reports do not differ much, they point to the same problems, human rights violations. In short, everything we see, we read, is similar to what we have seen before. At the same time, this report is a mirror of society, a mirror of power, a mirror of the Ombudsman and his fellow workers. What a picture this mirror shows to the government, to the political authorities, we can create a real image right now, because these authorities are actually disregarding the Ombudsman's messages, reports. Somehow I have a feeling that these reports are becoming their own purpose. It is also true that a person would expect an ombudsman or the Ombudsman to appear somewhat more energetic after all these experiences of the past years. Indeed, it is very difficult for me to accept the statement of the Ombudsman, who speaks of good cooperation with the government. But when he is the Ombudsman, he is not the guardian of the government. If we look at the contents of the report, then I wonder how such a statement can be made. And I'm kind of appalled that the guardian actually seems more servile than anything else. I note that the report is essentially statistics and a description of the situation, and all too little, although it is also true to give very clear attention to specific things, and it is very good in certain parts of this report, but nevertheless, I read all these reports seriously, I can say that I also went back to look at my comments for last and before last year or two years, and I note that this is actually a report that is more similar to the report of the Statistical Office with a description as the report, the report of the Ombudsman. I also miss new methods, methods typical of human rights defenders in developed democratic countries, where, if necessary, the Ombudsman convenes a press conference every day and attacks the government because of the impossible conditions prevailing in a given area. This is how we in the offices of the Members receive people who say that we have been to the Ombudsman, he has recorded us in his records, but nothing happens. I know very well, and we all know that the Ombudsman does not have direct powers to solve matters. That's clear to everyone. And believe me, I do too. But I miss you being more energetic in this business. Who's reading this report? I doubt that all the Members of this National Assembly have read it. After all, it is very extensive and also spiritistic in certain places. So if in one of those fat reports that gets even fatter the second year, things get written down, then they don't come to the public, they don't come to the open place where they should go. And then the government sends us one fat piece of the answer, which is very extensive and doesn't give us much hope that anything will change. The State and its institutions, however, are extremely concerned about the warnings that the Ombudsman keeps repeating. Here, for example, are the police procedures that have already been mentioned several times today, because the most complaints are also at the expense of the exercise of police powers. Especially when it comes to the use of physical force or, say, locking and things like that. Unwarranted excitement is also mentioned. On the other hand, hesitation, slow decision-making in the social work centre. Of course, it is always followed by the reactions of dissatisfied parents or at least one of them who complain. Then, of course, the ministry has been incomprehensible about these things for a long time, when it comes to very sensitive human hardships. In the area of personal data protection, we all find a distinction between the requirements laid down by law, ratified international treaties, the Directives of the European Union and practice. And, of course, there are a number of shortcuts to go around these normative requirements. Prison overcrowding. Much attention is being paid to this. It is a good thing to talk about it, to try to ensure that those who are going through the punishment are given some appropriate standard. But this standard in prisons is much better than people who normally work eight hours without breaking the law. And that's what you need to know. The taxpayers wonder how, when they look at it, let's say a prison in Cyprus that this prison is so beautiful and so well-designed and modern material and such accommodations, and those who have made it possible to finance this prison live in misery. These things aren't cleared in our heads or in mine, only in some others. That's how I think it's important to understand that people have a very critical attitude towards this kind of behavior. I am in favour of respect for the human personality, the dignity, and even for the prisoners, this is certainly true, but if there was a crisis of money, I would give priority to those who did not break the law. It also mentions this backlog of the court. That's already a loose end, and I wouldn't comment on that. But, say, the state's attorneys. That's an interesting story. The longevity of decision-making in certain cases is observed everywhere, and in some cases incredible intensity. But it's not the gravity of the act that depends on it, it's the person who's supposed to do something. This shows the expertise, the professionality of the prosecution's sphere. I recall that at the time of wild privatisation, we filed a series of complaints against former directors who privatised factories, businesses and so on. And nothing happened, nothing. It is also true that for some time we had a criminal law that did not have a chapter on economic crime, which coincided with privatisation. There were a lot of these coincidences. Then we are talking about these illegal forced discharges of an apartment, which usually ends with the failure of the police to act, by the prosecution's rejection of criminal charges, because it is not a crime that is prosecuted under official duty. There's a lawyer's room here, and so on. However I look at this report, it is clear that he is an individual, a citizen, a citizen in an extremely subordinate position with regard to the country. When it comes to the procedure in which the State is involved, this gap is too large and unworthy for the state of Slovenia, which is not fit for a democratic state. The country is in great advantage here. I have to say something about police procedures, because we see that these procedures fill the daily newspapers, and so do people often complain, and of course, judicial proceedings are of this kind. Here's the relationship I was talking about a little while ago manifesting itself. The Ombudsman is very well aware of this relationship, and of this deficit, and of the appropriate lenientness. In the case of police conduct, which is the basis for gaining the confidence of citizens in the work of the police, an appropriate appeal procedure has so far not been possible. I hope that this will really start to change in practice. However, we do not yet have the facts to confirm that this is already happening. A police officer, he's manifesting an irregularity, is clearly in a privileged position. When determining the facts and deciding as a rule, the Board of Appeal shall not hear the complainant, nor shall the opinion, as to how to say, of the non-police part of the Boards of Appeal, be binding on the decision. We also observe the passivity of the police in relation to the personal security service when the police do not act, as I said before, even though they should. I'd particularly like to mention the situation of the victim here. In such a report by the Ombudsman, I would expect just one special chapter dealing only with this issue. When the police, for example, discover the perpetrator on the spot, question the perpetrator and the victim. Then, after the hearing, let them both go. Of course, the offender has the right to an attorney, and so on and so forth, so on, that the victim should seek out whoever he wishes. Yeah, well, what kind of country are we? Last time, the unsub abused a woman in a horrible way. That wasn't his first offense. Soon after that, the police released him peacefully. It is completely incomprehensible that we cannot in Slovenia decide to amend the law on criminal procedure and also criminal law in this context, in such cases the perpetrator, when it is evident who the perpetrator is, when the police receive him on the spot and there is no need to know what kind of research, is simply detained and immediately served. That would have an extraordinary effect. But not what is happening now is that the delinquents are still repeating themselves and things are happening as they are. Detention for the perpetrator in such a case, then expedited proceedings by the judicial branch of authority. Of course, the police have broad powers, because by nature they must also have them. These powers clearly affect human rights and freedoms. However, it is the duty of the State to provide adequate guarantees to effectively prevent abuse. Therefore, the police must be more exposed to adequate internal and external control. The report shows that this is one of the main points in relation to the police. Cases of police violence clearly show the need for more effective control over police action. I also think that the police are one of those segments of Slovenian society, which has remained quite intact in this time of transition. All possible areas of social life in Slovenia have undergone major changes, shocks as well, but the police have somehow remained the way they were, including the recruitment to the top of the police as it was. If you don't have a police cadet, you can't be a minister. It's that famous logic - you can't be the director of a clinical center, if you're not a doctor, you can't be a minister of health, if you're not a doctor, you can't be a minister of agriculture if you're not a farmer, and so on. It would have been time for us to get rid of this logic and in these human resources processes, not only in the police, of course, even in the government, somehow a fresh wind and people who are not burdened with something, say, a police logic given by an cadet who seals a man for life. This is seen in all those who have, say, finished school like this; it is good that it is no longer there. In addition to judicial proceedings, the longevity of administrative proceedings is a major problem. It is particularly stressed that in any case, ministers and other heads of bodies should pay more attention to organisation and action issues, in particular in relation to citizens, customers and users. In the administrative field, this issue is extremely varied and could be cited in a long and broad way, but perhaps just a few cases. For example, if someone is mistakenly led as a Slovenian citizen, we see here in the report, there are ways to correct mistakes that are not supported by the legislation in force. I mean, it's-- it's hard for me to understand that an official applies a rule that no longer applies. The Ombudsman states: irregularities in the registration of cars, irregularities in executions in relation to investors, inadequate means of determining the order of executions, long-term procedures for obtaining citizenship, conducting procedures in denationalisation processes and so on and so on - this is huge. For example, in the area of environment and space - a citizen who complains in a spatial matter is waiting for a decision by the competent Ministry of Environment and Space for one year, two years, nothing special. What does this mean for an individual who wants to build, I don't know, a house to settle a housing issue, but we can imagine. Or Durs, the tax administration - the settlement of complaints there takes place in some strange way. This is what the Ministry of Finance has now, but the situation is the same as before. Nothing happens, only institutionally the appeal procedure is carried out elsewhere, which is of course right, but nothing. And then what? It's the same in all other areas, areas. I also find the issue raised when reading the Ombudsman's report. When you talk about the media, I think it would be wise to also consider whether the right to be informed about public matters should be stressed. For we are constantly here in the National Assembly, even Members, at a meeting of individual working bodies, facing the difficulty of not being able to obtain from the Government or the competent national authorities the information we need as Members. We have to demand that we win, and we haven't been told we're going to win. It's the citizens! And I believe that this kind of demand for the Ombudsman may not have come, but it seems to me that one of the key human rights in a democratic society is the right to be informed about public matters objectively. Citizens need to know, they have a right to know what happens to state money, state property, etc. And if they have to work hard and there are no answers, of course, it is a bad sign. The government, together with a large-scale opinion, has sent, including - this is information on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly, which were given at the time of the Ombudsman's 2001 report - out of 16 recommendations relating to legal certainty in the country, restrictions on personal freedom, judicial proceedings, police procedures, administrative matters, pension and disability insurance and housing rights, the Government has actually processed them, implemented them, if I may use this word, only seven. It solved the issue of personal freedom, even more at institutional level than in practice. Given the government's response to these reports and, for example, the examples shown in the 2002 report, it seems that those things that occur in the highest number, in particular administrative matters, judicial and police procedures, the government - I cannot say that it does not solve them at all, because I do not think it solves them at all, but solves them in a very, very slow way, of course I do not know why. Or, simply, the National Assembly does not take the Ombudsman seriously either. For example, with regard to legal certainty, which has been mentioned so many times, we find that the government has not implemented a single decision. In particular, it is necessary to mention the one which requires that, within the time limits laid down by law, it should issue sub-legislative acts that will enable the implementation of laws to be implemented and, to that end, should intensify inter-sectoral cooperation more than ever. The consequence of such conduct is that we have laws that are not enforceable in practice, cannot be enforced, applied. This has also been shown this year when we passed a construction law last December. On 1 April, the sub-law should enter into force in order to allow administrative units and municipalities to simplify procedures. Some of the solutions in marriage are good, but there is no law-abiding act and cannot be applied. Years ago, we had a law, as it was called, on environmental protection, which I personally thought was a good law. However, it contained quite a number of sub-laws, which I think we can say today that everyone is not as they should or not be issued at all. And it's been years. So what's the point of marriage if there's no submarital acts? In a particularly interesting way, the government has re-advised a recommendation on the abolition of judicial backlogs, where it says that it has adopted a series of laws, addressed the resolution of spatial issues, and also in the Ombudsman's report this reference can be observed. Nothing helps new laws, nothing if the court refers to a law that is no longer in force, as can be seen in one of the cases listed in the report. Either the courts have decided for so long on the impropriety or jurisdiction to give rise to new judicial proceedings or to decide on the application for 25 years. Or, for example, the Supreme Court in one case finds that the employer is the Ministry and the worker, so he does not get those supplements that come from his working relationship, as if he were constantly employed by one and the same employer. And then we must warn the Supreme Court that the employer of the State of Slovenia is not the Ministry, but, of course, things are different. Unfortunately, such cases are too many. The Government has also done nothing to ensure consistent compliance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act. Thus we find the case in the ombudsman's report when the complaint was filed in 1994 and was found in 2002. This is even worse than the case of the state prosecutor who filed an indictment against the City Council of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but I cannot say that because I am not informed that the Attorney General would have already found this complaint. Maybe they'll find her after, I don't know, 10 years. Cases in the field of construction have been highlighted in particular, as I have already mentioned, where all the deadlines laid down by law are regularly violated. One wonders how administrative units can function at local level, if this is the case. There is also a special case of inspection services, but this is such a vast complex that I cannot start it here because I have already talked about this once before when I passed the inspection law. In its report on the implementation of the recommendations of the National Assembly, the government notes that the implementation of the national housing programme will also be easier due to the new housing law and the recapitalisation of the housing fund. The Ombudsman states in his report that the problem of social housing will be exacerbated, which we can only attach because the government has obviously not supported our proposals in order to include assistance to young families, disabled people and those who for the first time resolve their housing issue. It is interesting that the government promises even more rules in its extensive material, that this will be reduced, that we will adopt a new law, a new law under the law, or that we will make a change to the existing one. Again, this is a purely normative idealism that we know from the Yugoslav times, when the leaders of that time told us, the situation in this area is bad, we will change the law and the situation will improve. He didn't. And after a while, they made a new marriage again, and they said the same thing over and over again, and again it was the same or worse. This logic continues in this government. The law itself will not change anything if it is not willing to do so. And this will first turns out to be in compliance with the deadlines that you set yourself when you write the law, the deadlines by which you will adopt a submarital act. If there's no submarital act, it's no problem for you, it just feels like life, what we want, we have a lot of work to do, you say. And when I telephone, what about this sub-legal act, yes, it is now in inter-resortmental coordination, it should be adopted on April 1st, today is really the junember month at the door, but it may be the second year. What about the people who are destined for this marriage? What about the goals of the law that you wanted to achieve with this law? Of course we can't reach them, not the government, not anyone else. Then why is that? Women, disabled, elderly, children, etc., the term, I don't know, marginal, marginal categories has been used. They're not for me. These are people, these are people who demand our personal care and also reflect our culture. If we look at the Ombudsman's report, if we look at what the situation really is, not on paper, then we cannot be satisfied. And here, of course, we can agree with the Ombudsman. But the government tells us today that this problem is already solved. How? In the palm of his hand, the personal care programme, etc., as it is called, has already been developed or in preparation and is now being followed by a national programme. So we'll have a special care programme and a national program, maybe you'll remember something else. But what will be the result? A lot of paper for a small effect. In the field, things need to be solved. We have just enough legislation, we do not need any new national programme and programme of special concern, only those who are paid to do their work in the state administration to do so. But instead of trying to do what is written, you write new programs and blind yourself and others to make a difference. It won't change. The Ombudsman's report will be even more extensive next year. Or invent a new academy! The Ministry of Justice informs us that, as one of the core tasks of its programme, it has identified the need to institutionalise judicial education. This should be achieved by establishing a judicial academy. With this academy, ministries want to include education before being elected to judicial office. So there is another new institution that will educate specifically for justice. Is this really necessary, or is it really necessary, or is it going to be an institution that will really move something? Does this mean that our law schools suck, or does this mean that the system of training lawyers who are the dominant profession in justice is bad? If so, then something needs to be done in this system, not the establishment of a new institution, a new school. Who's gonna teach at this school? Yeah, well, those who teach at law school, somewhere else. It is similar with an administrative academy within the Ministry of the Interior. Yeah, who's teaching there? We teach professors everywhere. Only institutions are different. Please! Let us try to make the most of the institutions that we already have. It's not like we're starting new ones. And that is now a great achievement of this government. Please! And if I may further comment at the end on the proposal for a recommendation prepared by the Internal Policy Committee for the National Assembly. Point 1 - Recommendations on: Assessment on respect for human rights and legal security in the country, I quote: "The Government should formulate an anti-discrimination policy strategy and, in this context, explore the possibility of creating a specific, independent institution dealing with the prevention of discrimination in all areas, educate on human rights and, in cooperation with the competent national authorities, monitor international obligations in this area". Yeah, great! Another new institution. As if last year, in the framework of public administration reform, there are enough new bodies, there are enough new institutions. In the Slovenian administration, most of the bosses are on, I don't know, the number of employees. Now we'll have more. And I imagine that if I follow the logic of this anti-corruption committee, yes, if it has five officials, it should have five. However, both institutions could cooperate, as there is also discrimination in all areas. Discrimination, however, is one of those familiar, unethical practices. For the last time, Mr Penko explained to us how this commission would act ethically, also dealing with enlightenment, as it is called. So, again, we have someone who wants to be educated. I know I'm saying something right now that I'm actually spitting in my own bowl, but I can't help but say it. Who knows, works. But he who does not know learns how to do it. And this principle, this principle is so strong in this government. We'd all be educating, given that we have a very loose school system. What if those in the State Administration prefer to do what is required by law: exercise the powers given by the State to do what is right. But it's not like we're doing business now, and we're proposing this kind of stupidity in the National Assembly. Isn't it enough that the government is already proposing so many? Please, I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we oppose this first decision. We think he's pointless. The establishment of a new institution, of course, means that we contribute to organ hypertrophy, means we believe in organizational idealism. If you do, we'll set up a new organ, and it'll get better. Please! Nothing's gonna get better, but it's gonna be more expensive, and that's true. The active employment policy, which the government so likes to announce, will once again show how the number of unemployed has decreased slightly because it will be an opportunity for new jobs. In point 4, the Limitation of Personal Freedom, I agree with what has been written. However, we are missing one point in this report, where we Members, Members of Parliament, who each week have the opportunity to listen to the citizens and their difficulties, to have a paragraph here, or a separate chapter in which we would be told something about our view of the status of the victim. There is nothing about this in this report prepared by the Internal Policy Committee. I think something needs to be done in this regard. That's what we have to do. And even at the 10th point of this report, or as it is called, point 24 says, "Police should provide women and other victims of violence when they report a crime at police stations with privacy and give them a record of the application." What kind of move is that? What does that mean, ensuring privacy? I don't know if I can say that this sentence, this 24th point, is not going to get me wrong. But I know exactly what that means. What we have to provide to the victims is the conditions for the victim to feel safe in the hands of the police or in the hands of the authorities that persecute the perpetrators, not to feel like an object of interrogation. This needs to be ensured. Not that they are disemboweled with questions, although it is obvious, because they got the perpetrators on the spot when everything is clear. No, there's still a victim to be harassed there. And we're talking about some privacy. What are they gonna do? They're gonna put curtains on those walls, windows, and a picture on the wall? Or what is it? This points to our unresolved attitude toward this issue. Of course, you can make fun of yourself, because you make lots of jokes. The report's like that, too. I don't have to explain, I read, I know everything. But what hurts me is this inertness, this lack of feeling for other people. Only those who have been persecuted by the police, persecuted by the authorities know what it really means. Everyone else can only talk about it "flancate." That is why I think this 24th point is inappropriate and should be properly designed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected guardian with co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. We have examined the report in the parliamentary group, together with our experts and colleagues. The report has been written in a transparent and transparent manner and is increasingly thicker than has just been found. The fundamental mission of the Ombudsman remains that it is competent, persistent and insufferable bad news of all institutions of authority, at all levels. These statistics show some improvements in the report and, of course, we welcome them. In this short performance, I will draw attention to some areas that need a special approach and we feel that it has not been done enough. Among other things, the point was made on the working body that a recommendation from the previous years by the national assembly should be analysed. I intend to do it myself. When we discussed the Ombudsman's report last year, our Group of Members successfully proposed some amendments. You and your colleagues supported them. It was for this occasion that we were particularly careful to see whether the content of these amendments had been realized or how the situation in the areas highlighted by these amendments had improved. The first is the question of denationalization. In his report, the Ombudsman wrote: “They received a quarter of the new initiatives. However, if we take into account the pending and reopened initiatives already resolved, the initiatives under consideration are about as many as they were in 2001." End of quote. It is understandable that after so many years of law enforcement, the number of initiatives is growing. It's worse if there weren't always fewer. It also says, here it must be established that initiatives were increasingly related to the acceleration of procedures. Or something new: there are problems that arise after the denationalisation process is completed. He's stalling with a property refund. This is a new violation of human rights. Another area that has been adopted in the amendment is greater concern in the implementation and supervision of the safety measure of compulsory psychiatric treatment. In the information on the implementation of the report of the National Assembly adopted last year, the Government stated that legislation is in preparation to ensure the comprehensive protection of persons with mental disabilities and the national mental health programme. Of course, we will pay close attention to the government's assurances or their implementation and faithfully follow them. In chapter: Pension, disability and health insurance last year we called on the government to prepare a new updated list of physical impairments, as one of the rights of disability insurance is the right to disability or compensation for disability, because the updated list does not allow proper and equal treatment of all defects. The well-known case was last year's boreliosis, which means borelia. The government has informed us that the policy of incarceration diseases is in preparation, in which there will be certain diagnosiss that are recognised as professional in certain exposures and the conditions that will define this occupational disease. Accept this rule as soon as possible. We have put forward this proposal, the National Assembly, to make every effort by the Government to implement the national housing programme and to develop different mechanisms that will follow the real needs of non-profit rental and social rentals, such as a change in the national housing programme or a law on real estate investment funds, which will allow the increase in the rental of real estate to reduce profitable rents and reduce the demand for real estate. At the same time, this will have a positive impact on labour mobility in Slovenia. The answer was that the activities of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy regarding the implementation of the national housing programme have, in a systematic sense, mainly been reflected in the concept of a new housing law. We just accepted that. In a material sense, through the budgetary policy measures of the State, including the recapitalisation of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Public Fund, the provision of budgetary resources to pay savings premiums in the housing savings scheme and through the directing of the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a public fund, for its investment policy. In particular, as regards its entry into the positions of a co-investor with the municipalities for the provision of social and non-profit rentals to the direct investment in housing. This winter will be the first real indicator of whether this direction has also come to life. According to the Ombudsman, the number of housing cases decreased in 2000 but the Ombudsman considers that particular attention should be paid to the issue of social housing or to the definition of the so-called social category by the municipalities themselves, which could run for individual calls. The lower the income tax, the more less profitable tenants will receive an apartment, and this also means that the municipality will have to contribute more to them to subsidise rents. In last year's report, the government was reminded of the inequality of the taxpayer in relation to the country. In relation to this issue, the government stated in its 2002 report that in the new tax procedure law under preparation, we are already coordinating it in detail in the coalition and will also aim at balancing the rights and obligations of the debtor, on the one hand, and of the State or tax authority, on the other hand, so that a different regime is proposed in this law. In this report, too, the Ombudsman highlighted the issue of judicial backlogs. The Ombudsman points out that the objective of remedying judicial backlogs has not yet been achieved. We believe, however, that it is encouraging to note that a number of courts are already in charge of current cases. This means that judicial backlogs are mainly due to pending cases from previous years. However, the Hercules programme is intended to help resolve these cases, by which experienced judges are helping to solve cases in the courts with the most backlog that the judiciary continues to make. This issue, you don't want, will become one of the substantive themes in the National Assembly, too, when it comes to deciding on the new President of the Supreme Court, Master Deisinger. Yesterday, he said at one of the meetings, a presentation by the parliamentary groups that it is simply not the Commissioner, that he is the first of the same, but that he has at the same time some other powers, through which he can influence the reduction of judicial backlogs. When we are in the field of justice, I would mention an increasing response to the offer of alternative dispute resolution through mediation for the conclusion of an out-of-court settlement. The report of the District Court in Ljubljana shows that this type of dispute resolution is "took" if this term can be used. This is certainly positive, since it enables a coherent solution to the dispute and is certainly for the greater satisfaction of both sides. In addition, this is a positive contribution to the reduction of court cases and thus to judicial backlogs. Unemployment. We understand from the report that the number of those who complained to the Ombudsman is lower. But we cannot go beyond the fact that it has occurred in some other spheres as it has been so far. Let it be said in this place: also in the case of civil servants. By the way, when a colleague of Dr. Brejc analyzed how the problem of a particular area has been tackled several times by giving rise to the creation of new agencies or new structures, we regret that the new Mother Europe is a poor example here. Few new projects and new conventions or new European policies do not end with the creation of a new agency. With all the above, we should not forget the most sensitive and precious members of society, the children. Especially those with special needs. We must not forget that their rights are written always and only by adults. And most of their violations to the guardian are committed by adults. The Ombudsman stated in his report that he had personally become a member of the European Children's Ombudsperson Network. And we welcome that. Sharing experience and knowledge at European level helps to solve the problem for us as well. Personally, as an observer in the European Parliament, I was wondering what the structured report of the European Ombudsman is. It's written very dry. You're having a hard time breaking through it. It's more dry than our report. From it, I have found that a very large chapter is intended for poor administration, as used by the term, complaints made by European citizens in contact with the institutions of the Union and their bodies. Except for the European Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance in its legislative role. Any European citizen or non-European citizen who lives in any Member State may appeal or appeal to the European Ombudsman. Therefore, I think it is important to conclude that, last year or recently, a law on access to information of a public nature has been adopted, since the right to information of a public nature is one of the fundamental rights in a democratic state, since it allows for access to insight into the functioning of a state apparatus and thus makes it possible to better control its functioning. Taking into account Slovenia's orientation towards the development of the information society and electronic administration, this is in our view a step in the right direction. The important adoption of this law is also further reinforced by the views of the Council of Europe, for example by the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and also by the United Nations Act, which is the UN's International Covenant on Civil Rights, which is directly legally binding on Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect this debate and then the recommendations adopted by the National Assembly to encourage the government by the next year, when it prepares a report on what has improved in this area, so that this report will be more extensive than the Ombudsman's report for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues from the LDS Group asked me to be as brief as possible in order to leave them with something more to discuss, so I will only draw the main conclusions. When we studied, to put it this way, the material, reports of the Ombudsman, we discussed everything possible and initially found that this institution in our country had been well received. So his report is really a mirror that sets it for society and, of course, those who are in position, we see a better picture maybe, and those who are in opposition are slightly worse. And it's both good. It's good because it means that it's a developmental movement. We are pleased to find that the violations identified by the Ombudsman are not of such a nature that they are systematic, that in our legislation or in the functioning of society they have some mechanisms that allow systematic or systematic violations of rights. Far from being so understood by anyone, it would be our opinion that the situation is ideal. On the contrary. Some areas, we believe, could be much nicer without additional funding. The first such area, which we have given special attention to, and as I have mentioned, does not require any financial contributions, is the area of constitutional rights. The Ombudsman’s warnings that such cases have increased should be taken seriously. But it's every single one of them at work and every day. Even today in this room were spoken words that I do not think belong in this temple. Therefore, it is expected that public authorities and all other institutions will ensure that there is no such discrimination in their field as individuals perceive. Another area that still needs a lot of attention is the administrative area. You've heard about this before. We note that last year and this year there have been movements - after all, all systemic legislation has been adopted - that we, like others, have found that there are still a number of sub-legislative acts that will have to be refined on the one hand and, on the other hand, prepared at all. If I'm a little bit illustrative, I'm also one of those people who've been waiting for a building permit for years. If I tell you guys a joke, I've been waiting 20 years for a final building permit. Well, that's why we think we need to go two ways on this. One is this debirocratization, which is relatively small or very small. The other is those procedures that are able to rationalize them. There is probably still a lot of work to be done on this segment as well. A special chapter is also the judiciary. Since the Court will be discussed at a committee meeting and, if necessary, even more broadly, it would not be specifically defined. I can only find out what it says or what the Ombudsman also points out that the situation is still worrying. The judiciary has somehow concluded that the instruments of the judicial administration are not being used, so it is not effective. Incentive data, which have been mentioned several times, are not as encouraging, given that the number of judges is increasing, that the number of requests received by the courts is falling and that judicial backlogs are growing. Some of the biggest courts in the country are particularly concerned, for example, the District Court in Ljubljana, which has over 100,000 outstanding cases. This will therefore require serious dialogue with the judiciary, in particular dialogue, partnership agreement and action in the direction it is intended to lead. We have no illusions, both in the field of administration and in the field of justice, that there will be some rapid change. However, the point is that trends are being judged and that both areas are moving towards faster and more efficient work. The next area is unemployment and the problems that stem from it. Here we are, I will say, in some ways the most powerless because the problem of unemployment and the material hardship it brings, with a somewhat slow response from state institutions, is severe. Evil in this sense, not that it is massed so badly, but that it is especially severe for those who find themselves in these situations. Therefore, we will make sure that both our executive and our own authorities make every effort to get these things within some reasonable framework. The last area that we specifically addressed to him and his attention are the children's rights. It is both possible, therefore, that there is a greater perception of violations or abuses in the field of children's rights, that the increase is possible because - now we have some mechanisms, after all, we have supported them ourselves in this national assembly. On the other hand, this may also be true because it is also a matter of interdisciplinary violence, for example, and that there will be more to do than just what we have arranged so far. That is why we believe that it is commendable that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has prepared or is preparing a national programme for families and children, in order to better define who and how it will participate in preventive and curative actions against violence against children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u161	Respectable present. In the submission of the Slovenian National Party's position, I will mainly touch on the content of the Ombudsman's report and not so much or even on the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the National Party, we estimate that regardless of the previous seven regular annual reports, the Government is doing its job, regardless of what these reports say and do not believe that the result of any act or sub-legislative act that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as an executive branch of power, has submitted to Parliament in the case of an act or a sub-law, has been submitted to its ministries as a result of a report by the Ombudsman. In doing so, we want to stress the role of the Ombudsman in our country. We estimate that these roles, at least not the role we envisioned in the framework of the basic umbrella law on the Ombudsman, are not in our country and unfortunately it is in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the Ombudsman does not have powers. Thus, the Ombudsman, as one of the speakers told me about the position of the parliamentary group, is merely an amplifier of socially disadvantaged or weak. We must stress, however, and in the Slovenian National Party we complement this idea that it is an amplifier without output power. I'm sorry. But of course, this is in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As far as the Ombudsman's 8th periodic report is concerned, we find, in the first part, general conclusions that matters are repeated year after year. The Ombudsman also notes that human rights violations are in all areas, that administrative obstacles are lagging behind as they have been in the past. If we follow the areas created by the Ombudsman, point 1 - the area of social and child rights. In order not to talk about the government's response, I will mainly criticise the Ombudsman, in such a way as the criticism that we assess in our client is that he is a critic who has a weight and which stems from a certain inactivity of the Ombudsman. Some time ago, in the area of social and child rights, we proposed a law in the Slovenian National Party that would increase pedophiles' sentences or increase sexual penalties for sexual inviolability offences. The Ombudsman did not touch himself, did not take any action to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the one hand, after the adoption of this law, or for Parliament after the adoption of this law, or for any other civil institution directly or indirectly affecting the adoption of this law. These are, many will say little things, but in the National Party we estimate that these are the areas to which the Ombudsman should show a certain degree of elasticity and help to ensure that such a law is, of course, adopted. Sorry, that wasn't it. Furthermore, as regards the report under order number 2, anti-discrimination procedures. We all probably know that one of the outstanding, still, constitutional principles is the law on Roma communities. In the Slovenian National Party we proposed a law on the Roma community where we regulated the rights of members of this community and filled the legal gap. In other words, we have filled out what the Constitution says and what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been able to do. The Ombudsman has also looked away, not appealed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not to Members, not to the Civil Initiative. In its report, however, the question is still open. And despite the fact that the legal proposal governing such rights, in other words, equates rights or with third words, states that they have no special rights, that the Ombudsman leaves his work circle and writes criticism to the government. In the context of his report under the third item, the judiciary, I should be allowed another criticism. I believe that at least the Ombudsman or his office is going through so much wisdom, I really believe he will take the criticism well. If the Slovenian government is not able to accept the criticism well-intentionedly, because we are also working within the opposition parties to have as best laws as possible, I hope that at least the Ombudsman will take this kind of material well-intentioned. Justice. In this National Assembly in 2001, on a proposal from the National Party, I think that in May, we adopted a decision limiting the permanent judicial mandate. The proposal for a decision was based on the so-called "twinning" project, which showed the ratio of the Slovenian judiciary to the same comparable region in Germany or under the jurisdiction of German law. This "twinning" project has shown that the Slovenian judiciary is ineffective, that it is more equipped as regards administration and mechanization, and that it is better paid. The fact that the results of our judiciary are, of course, much worse than the results of the judiciary in a comparable European region. Why? It follows from the "twinning" project that it is a fault, or a good part of the blame, for these backlogs, past or existing, particularly in a permanent judicial mandate. The National Assembly agreed. He appealed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend the constitutional dictatorship of the unlimited judicial mandate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is as ignorant as ever that even in the National Assembly constitutional change against this. And the Ombudsman does nothing in this area. We are also assessing in the National Party in the areas of justice, whether there should be on page 33 of the report, lots of judicial backlogs, on page 49 of the report on the strictness of procedures, whether there should be on page 53 of the report, on ineffective disciplinary proceedings, or, as at the end of the report, on the area of complaints about the work of lawyers. In the National Party, we estimate that at least very little is needed in this area. We expected the Ombudsman's response. He wasn't there. The Ombudsman further touches on police procedures. On the one hand, we could say what Members are complaining about or what the Ombudsman is complaining about, two months ago, maybe four months ago -- not to hold me to the word -- we have passed a law on the police, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made it clear and very easy to say: since the enactment of this law, we will have a police force over which political control will be exercised. The fact is, with us, the minister is a political function called by a political party and also voted by political parties. Then we wonder why the Slovenian police, the chief of staff, make mistakes like they do. And the Ombudsman also did not make any comments, no concerns, nothing at the time of the adoption of the law on police. As far as administrative matters are concerned, the trend in the problem of the provinces has been exposed, as far as it is concerned, it is an unresolved issue. Here. As probably all Members and all those accompanying us know that the issues of the provinces are taking place both on the Constitutional Commission and within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that there are several proposals for the formation of the provinces, that there are open issues relating to competences, financing, appointments, elections to their bodies and similar matters. However, in order for the constitutional commission, as for the matter that begins such a procedure at a certain stage, to be pressured by the Ombudsman, given his vision, that was not the case. The area of administrative matters below also reflects the issue of questionable public interest. That's right. I also think we need to ask ourselves what public interest is. Do we even know the public interest in this country? According to my assessment, the public interest is a substitute for the interest of capital, which we can see during the meetings of the National Assembly, when we create the same economic operators on the basis of the law on public companies and the same company on the basis of the law on companies. Here, of course, the public interest is lost. And the question is whether there is a public interest in Slovenia at all. In my work so far, I have highlighted the main criticisms on this account that the Ombudsman may not have been present in the legislative branch of government. According to our assessment, we have also shown that it is too small for us to criticise once a year whether it is the government or whether it is the guardian of human rights. That is why I think it would be reasonable for the Ombudsman to allow something more to enable him, too, to have the right to propose laws, because he would no longer be left exclusively to caution, on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, but to have the opportunity to take some action - a legal initiative. I believe, Madam President, that on behalf of the next year we will meet with a different report, today we put to the vote that the National Assembly calls on the government or calls on the Ministry of Justice to examine all possibilities for the Ombudsman to be granted a legal initiative and that it will be able to warn only [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u163	I also suggested these things. [[...]] I think this is the only measure that Slovenian policy can take if it really wants to be the second year [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] with a different report. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much. You're quite an expert on the rules of procedure, Mr. Pece. I think that you are aware of the procedures for making recommendations to this report within the meaning of your proposal, so that you know exactly that right now your oral proposal to give your wish to the National Assembly cannot be so. The deadlines for written additions have also expired. And also the last position of the Group on the report presented by Mr Igor Štemberger on behalf of the Party of Young Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Every year we deal with reports by the Ombudsman in the same way, in the same words, with the same phrases, with the same criticism. The worst part is that the Ombudsman's report from year to year looks about the same as it does when it comes to problems. The report alone, I am talking about the 2002 report, is certainly the most detailed, comprehensive and appropriate and substantively completed. Like every year, the guardian's office deserves to be commended. Once again, the Ombudsman notes that things do not move in certain areas, but, if they do, they are small things, routines, and it seems that we have all come to terms with the escape pattern. In no way do I want to say that everything is wrong in Slovenia and that human rights are largely violated. In the case of a violation of rights, it is too much and it is necessary and necessary to deal with it or to eliminate it. The Ombudsman's report shows that in most of the problematic areas, we have appropriate rules, but they are not properly implemented or implemented at all. This fact in itself is nothing new, but it is essential that for example one average Word user uses only 10% of the functions and the other no longer. However, if this is happening in the field of human rights and the implementation of the rules they set out, all that is not 100% is, and the matteror calls after the hearing. It is almost always the individual who causes a violation of rights or unlawful discrimination and similar deviation. Infringement does not result in any inadequate regulation or insufficient means, at least not in most cases. An individual in charge of work does not work or works poorly or misjudges the situation. And that, in my opinion, is a fundamental problem. This problem is also the problem of the state of Slovenia, where they hire or charge the individual for a job and pay him. In addition to poor irresponsible work, the report lists the Ombudsman’s lack of sensitivity to people’s distresses, carelessness toward those in need. These are subjective causes, unobjective, at least not at the level of finding reasons for irregularities. There's a reason for us. In our behavior or in our ignorance. With regard to the problem of renters of denationalised dwellings, the Ombudsman specifically appointed us as unrealistic and correct. Perhaps we should pay more attention to the basic issues that somehow belong to school and home education, but it seems that we do not yet understand them and feel them as our own: consistency, respect for different and similar things. Only the technical treatment of the Ombudsman's report and the correction of errors as on which service is not sufficient. It takes a person’s will and awareness that human rights violations are unacceptable. It is only in this way that violations can be resolved and thus we will have an advanced democratic society in which people will enjoy a high quality of life for which they cheer and which the Ombudsman also seeks in his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have therefore concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. First of all, I invite you to the word of Dr. Andre Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam President. In addition to what the representative of our Group has already said, I have nothing to add. But I do have one question for the Ombudsman. Dear Mr. Hanzek! I've had a lot on my mind, not just the certain things you're writing about in your report, but, above all, one problem that you're not writing anything about. You are certainly aware that there is currently a debate in the National Assembly on the two draft laws prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia aimed at finding or resolving the issues of so-called deleted, on the basis of a specific referral we have received from the Constitutional Court. Since you have taken a number of public views on this issue, I will not ask you about it either. I'd like to ask you about the other deleted. This is about those wiped-out refugees in 1945, whose former state, the Republic of Slovenia, is her successor, erased, and that is right down to the end. If you don't say I'm talking to you, I'd like to tell you my specific case. I was 18 months old when my parents took me with them in May 1945 and we went across the border. We were there in camps under the control of allied military forces. We've got some papers, we've been called the DP or the distribution persones. And as a payout, I lived there until 1949, when we finally came to Argentina and I got documents as a foreigner. And I always had a recorded, foreign citizen, born in October 1943 in Yugoslavia. As such, I lived, and when I was 25 years old, I decided to become an Argentine citizen. After all, it took very little time, but next year I went to study with my wife, and then I moved on from 1969 to North America, and then to France. But when I was in North America, a few years after that, and when I got my first money, my wife and I decided to come with my mother and our children for the first time to visit Slovenia. This was in the summer of 1978. I went to the Embassy of Yugoslavia in Washington and I admit to you that I had some difficulty asking what would happen because I thought, what if I still had to serve soldiers in Yugoslavia. And to my great surprise, after about two hours of discussion, while I was waiting there and expecting an answer, the Consulate's official finally came and gave us all, mother, wife and my children, the "tourist" visas. I have proof that I was wiped out for Yugoslavia in 1978. Of course, I am very grateful to the independent Republic of Slovenia, which immediately created the opportunity to become, like all my children, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. To my great surprise, however, I have now discovered that I may not have been erased, because in the so-called "building.net" - you have certainly heard of this matter - and despite the fact that the government has also wanted to violate my rights and has forbidden that I could have access to this information, but I have only come to this "building.net" and to my great surprise I have found not only myself as a supervised person, including my three brothers and both dead parents. I've been erased for some things, but for some other services, they've changed again from one record to another. But the interesting thing is that I then turned to the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia and asked them to give me a document why I had this number, who was controlling me, what was going on, whether I was erased or not, what was it for "one nerd". To my great surprise, after paying 764 tolls for copies, I got a copy of my file, which is empty. In fact, it's one blank page, all it says back there is is that "in May 1945 he illegally left the state of Slovenia". Why this story? This story just to let you know that it was actually happening. I am of Slovenian descent, we lived behind Bežigrad and I was born and we lived there. I had, and I have human rights, just like my dead parents did. But it's not a unique case. This is an example of a large number of people who became refugees after the events of May 1945 and left their own country. However, I would like to ask you whether this issue has been deleted and their rights so far subject to any analysis of yours, perhaps any measures already taken. I would like to know whether you have any view of this, because it is finally also about the human rights of the people who have been violated, or in the second period, of the other country whose Republic of Slovenia is the successor. So I'd like to ask you if you've ever thought about this. But if this question surprises you, I don't want you to answer me today. However, I would like to know the position of the Ombudsman of my country on this issue, and I recommend that, at a certain time, I get a written answer, which, of course, I will also present to the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Guardian, would you like to respond? As you wish. Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Respectable Ombudsman with co-workers! Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's report is only one of the materials that we deal with in the working bodies, as well as at the meetings of the National Assembly. However, according to the importance and expectation of response, it is extremely important. It is often the case that individuals come to the office with problems that have been solved in a healthy and reasonable way in its disharmony. Usually, when all options are exhausted, I refer the person to the Ombudsman. Its essential difference from other authorities is that you answer or answer within an understandable time frame. In this contribution, let me mention our attitude toward the question of what is better in the event of a judicial error. The question and, of course, the answer was based on a public opinion survey in the Revus magazine, and it was used by the author, Dr. Albin Igličar, to the question of what is better: to condemn an innocent person or to release the wrong person. We answered this question in Slovenia with 84.1 per cent that it is better to condemn an innocent person than to let the wrong person go. This is a devastating result, but it is not particularly different in other countries. Allow me to speak a few words about the chapter "police procedure." It is very good that 30 per cent less complaints were addressed to the Ombudsman in 2002 on the one hand to the procedures of the uniformed person and to the injured person on the other hand. Complaints are, of course, transmitted due to the various perceptions of the implementation of the procedure. It is particularly interesting to note in the report the judgment of the higher court in Celje when a police officer who did not participate in the proceedings was present before the judge. Of course, there are such cases, but it is entirely inappropriate for some to create the whole image of the police and bring things to the conclusion that there are police officers in the court as witnesses in the proceedings who continue to be trusted. The work of police officers must be in line with the law and the law. However, I personally feel the fear that a public assessment of their work, in a way that, as a rule, they make mistakes in their official procedures, will lead to their passivity when they overlook the offenses rather than deal more seriously with them. The presence of the police in public and the performance of their work in a legal, professional and corrective manner will certainly restore the reputation of the police in the longer term. Interesting are the attempts to establish councils to improve the safety of citizens. As a rule, they are created on the initiative and desire of the police station for more creative cooperation with the local community. I think it would be worth doing more in this area and also filling the legal framework with content. I am convinced that outside of traffic safety, police officers can also work very effectively in the area of prevention. Sometimes it's with its own appearance. However, I believe that the amendment to the law adopted in these premises this year will make it possible to carry out both control and the correctness and expertise of the appeal procedure more effectively. Nevertheless, it must be acknowledged that a weaker side must be protected in carrying out the police procedure. And he's on his way to the 14th and 15th recommendations of the parental committee. At the same time, the leadership of the police must ensure that the shortcomings identified by the Ombudsman in his report are addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Zammernik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the Ombudsman! I will be brief from the point of view of the other fellow Members of Parliament, because I want each of my colleagues to be given the opportunity to say what is somehow the most impeding and disturbing thing in this report. In a report in which - although I do not apply to that pessimistic man - but because it was said here that the position here can find many good things and the opposition of course is bad, I have tried very hard to find good things, but the report is so written that good things are hard to find in this report. I would focus on only two segments or three segments of this report. The segment with which I work is most often met. However, in all the report or in all the procedures that citizens conduct in that country, legal protection is provided in some way. And any decision he receives, whether it be a court decision or a building permit or, I don't know, any other social support, for example, is always a legal instruction where there is a possibility of a complaint. And these complaints, if, of course, people are not satisfied with them, they also come to the Ombudsman. More worrying if you ask me, but what is your concern, Mr. Ombudsman, is not even coming. Unfortunately, in the last year and a half, I've been dealing with this very often, and it's a lot. If all these cases were to come to you, this report would be even more extensive than it already is. Apparently, the commission I run, providing reasons and background for the attack on journalist Mir Petk, has somehow become a magnet for all the irregularities that are taking place in the field of the prosecution. However I have already searched the report, the prosecution is not mentioned much in this report. Why not? Because people don't get decisions to run some sort of procedure against them. They're just running. This is all they feel on their skin, and they have no real opportunity to defend themselves against it. I will serve you with a very specific case and, of course, these specific cases that I will mention will also be handed over to you, and after these eight years I will first taste what the actual role of the Ombudsman is. Is it possible in these specific cases, which, unfortunately, are not, as I said, the only one, to show the Institute that it is, however, entitled to its existence? You know, I think that if only one report is written, but there are no concrete solutions to cases, then it makes no sense that this institution even exists. Look what was addressed to the D.A.'s office. This man then turned to me, of course, because he did not see any other solution. It was an injury of 200 million tolars, which, of course, is a negligible amount because there are many such cases. And he says, "I claim the same as he said," now I will not mention names for data protection, "this prosecutor," here is listed by name and surname, "at our meeting when he reviewed the police record and the prosecutor's conclusion p.s.," is also given by name and surname. He said, "Mr. Erbežnik, I have seen such decisions by the prosecutors that he could only be mad or bribed so that he could accept them, so I can't do anything." And nothing happens. Nothing happens. The person we had before our commission said he didn't hope to testify because he was afraid of the charges. She's already gotten two from the D.A., and there's nothing she can do to help, even to the Ombudsman. Why? Because he's got nothing in his hand, he just lost his job. Three years is the case in court, but nothing happens. Of course, then you find out why. This is where you wrote about the court. On the visit of the Ombudsman to one of the smaller towns where the District Court is located, many of the interlocutors pointed out that the President of the Court and the lawyer who has an office in the same place are married. So we've even heard that the President is leading this case to a man who is a lawyer. Yeah, it's a great combination. I know others. And the D.A.'s in there, like, and there's something else going on. These are just family ties, not to talk about such strong connections between a judge, a prosecutor and one who must be accused or not to be charged. There are also links when lawyers sit in a judicial council and they confirm a permanent mandate or we confirm it, but they propose a judge for a permanent term of office. And people come to me who say, I can prove to you that the lawyer who is in the judicial council has provided a permanent mandate to the judge who tried my case. Yeah, of course he was judging him the way that this lawyer did. Because he had to somehow redeem himself for the permanent term he received when he was 28. By the age of 63, it's guaranteed at work. This service is not in Slovenia. But if we listen to our organs, from justice forward, everything is in order in our system. However, things show otherwise. And to this thing -- my fellows, they're already warning me that I'm in debt, so I'm going to cut it short -- I still wanted to warn you. You also talk a lot about the rights of children and mothers, or those, I don't know what you call them, but those who are neglected in society. And here he has a specific case that I would like to introduce to you, and I would like to ask you to specifically answer me what you have done in this regard. The mother, who was a caring mother and was still a caring mother, paid to maintain the value of her money to a child’s account in a mutual fund. By such a very economic way, the methods of the average input, and by doing so, we know what the bullish trend was in last year, quite a profit. Then she wanted to raise that money. And the capital company that runs this mutual fund says that without the consent of the social work centre, the mother of this money cannot raise. And the calvary of this mother's trip to get her money so that she could buy a baby, say, 10,000 tolar shoes started by giving another role and paying an administrative bicycle of 4,250 tolars. So whenever she wants to raise that money, she's going to have to pay an additional 4,250 tolls of administrative fees so that an official at the social work centre will be happy to write a certificate that she can raise that money with. And this procedure - I say, it would take too long to specifically describe this case. I ask you, Mr Hanžek, to take this personally and to write a very comprehensive answer about this to me. What happened at this social work centre, how they reacted, and what, after all, this official, who was so bureaucratic, both in contravention of the rights of the mother and the child, was eventually involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Mr Minister, Mr Guardian and all co-workers! The Ombudsman's annual report is certainly an eminent event in the National Assembly. At the same time, this report is also about the conscience of not only the government, the national assembly, but also, above all, the third branches of government. In this particular case, this year's report could already be said to be the same. However - perhaps I will repeat the statements of some of the speakers - the report does not say anything new anymore or less. After all, the report at its final stage can't say anything more than that. However, the essential flaw that I see in the functioning of the Ombudsman is mainly in action and in action when the actual event is up to date. It makes sense for me to knock on the bad conscience of such executive branches of power, the legislative branch of authority, or the judicial branch. I believe that these reports are too loose for action to be faster and more effective. See if we are just looking at the case on page 177 of the Rapporteur, where he is talking about a worker who is still waiting after 25 years for a court decision on the correctness of the termination of the employment relationship. This is actually an alarming matter. It is true that the case has already occurred in a country that has not been recognised as having all democratic attributes, but for a democratic country in which we have all sworn for at least 13 years, but in fact such a case is a very worrying one. Concerned in particular about the fact that the Supreme Court has already ruled in this case seven years ago and has not yet reached a conclusion - the conclusion in the case of a labour dispute, it is said, of a job. Otherwise, the Ombudsman notes that you have explained to the initiator the timing of the decision of the higher and social court, informed him of the legal options in the event of the delay of the procedure, and advised him to turn to you again in such a case. But what we can't do is we can't do it backwards, even though we'd love to do it to a lot of stimuli. All well and well, but when there is a decision to bring the case back in the audit procedure, the Supreme Court will say, please, in this case it has pleased the initiator, then in this case it is an alarm. If the case is still pending, it is taking 7 years, and I think it is necessary to knock more quickly here on the conscience, in which case the judiciary, especially in the case of a working relationship, is said to be job issues. Here I cannot agree with my colleague Pecett, who first said that the Ombudsman could also have a law-making procedure. However, it should be possible to have or choose this option, and each institution shall have it, in due time and immediately, to respond to the need for a certain issue at the legislative level to be addressed without delay. I miss that, frankly, by the Ombudsman's actions. If we look at cases abroad when serious violations occur, then this institution raises its voice very much. The second question I am asked, something already mentioned today, is the question of the longevity of procedures in administrative matters, the acquisition or construction permits or permits in the field of internal affairs, etc. They are the most competent Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of the Interior. Here we know that the eccentric, day-to-day infringements of arms, legislation. Here, I miss the Ombudsman's greater volume in order to actually start to respect legislation in this area. Why can someone get one within a certain period of time and the other not? This is also the case, as Mr Zammernik said. By the way, if I know you, well, we'll get to the bottom of this. This is a very common case in practice in administrative procedures. However, the third question comes to me in some of the assessments that you and the Ombudsman have identified in public from a valuable point of view. Indeed, the high level of involvement as has already been said today in the area of faster case resolution has been deleted, which in this case, if in all cases the same approach, is commendable. On the other hand, a valuable assessment of the phenomenon of impatience towards the Roman Catholic Church in our country. I believe that the reaction was very wrong, wrong for the institution of the Ombudsman. In this case, more or less the guardian almost identified himself with those who expressed this impatience. I think that this is also a sensitive procedure that the Ombudsman has allowed, also sensitive to public conduct and public attitudes in the future. I believe that, above all, it is necessary to monitor, at the level of the Ombudsman, the issues that really detract from human rights. And the question of the dignity of a religion or intolerance to religion is the question that needs to be clearly defined. In this case, I believe that the Ombudsman should no longer or less identify himself with those who expressed this intolerance or, on the other hand, even in this particular case, give judgment as to who is responsible for such intolerance in our country, and in other areas such activity has not been pursued. Thank you so much for seeing my time run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Jaša Złobec Lukič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. 30 years ago, I graduated with the thesis "black humor in French surrealists". I think the work that Matjaž Hanžek is doing with his colleagues is also some sort of surreal black humor. When they fill a hole, three new ones appear. Besides, the Ombudsman is not a national hero. He does not deal with the Catholic Church, which is the largest and most powerful institution in Slovenia, and is perceiving that he is a victim. The Guardian of Human Rights will never have the strength that the last priest has. She's dealing with those who can't defend themselves. He deals with those who are on such or different sides. Moreover, the Ombudsman must protect them from the state and its unfriendly institutions. For the country itself is an unfriendly institution. I remember going to Kosovo in the 1980s, defending the human rights of Albanians, and the gardens were fast. In those days, we also fought for the abolition of the death penalty, and that is where we succeeded. Now we're going to Hanzak and his, of course. As we monitor the initiatives taken by the Ombudsman, we note that some groups of people do not turn to the Ombudsman at all. These are mainly marginalised residents, children, Roma, refugees, for which their lack of awareness of human rights is likely the cause. Who went after the Roma? Who went after the fugitives? Who went out for Islamic religion in Slovenia? Hence, it is not just a lack of awareness of people. But what people do not know is immediately one of the most important causes of their violation, especially for discrimination against powerless groups of people. That is why this national institution of the Ombudsman is so strong that without it Slovenia would be significantly less free than it is. Institutions can try, but they are institutions. I was very happy this year or so, these days, when I saw that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had taken its opinion seriously on the Ombudsman's 8th annual report. This seems like a very important step forward. But it's still an institution. The government just can't be a psychiatrist. That is why the functioning of the institution is too small and too weak, especially for people who need help immediately and now. It's kind of carefree to people. For the sixth year, the congregation has not found the time or will to regulate the field of mental health. Prestigence is obviously more important than helping marginalized people. Unaccepted sub-laws and opportunities for special needs education of children are another example which is a disgrace to the National Assembly. Finally, just before planting, a 10 - year - old embarrassing problem was resolved. The man said, "It's a miracle you're a pure." But after reading the new book again, the Ombudsman and his associates are separated. On the one hand, the unsettled attitude of the National Assembly towards the special report prepared by the Ombudsman on the problem of tenants of denationalised dwellings. The bodies of the National Assembly considered this report with such sluggish speed, says Hanžek and his, that the recommendations could no longer be taken into account in the housing law, even though the debaters had substantively agreed with them. This guilt will never shake off the state council. Unordered Roma issues. Although we have been talking about the Roma for years and years, among other things, there are problems in the election of Roma saints to the municipal council, a question of autonomy that is nowhere to be defined. Most of them, I'm afraid, don't want to solve the problems of the Roma and rather put them in a corner. In police procedures, the most complaints are at the expense of the exercise of police powers. Unbiased assessment of the facts shows that, as a rule, police statements are taken more seriously than the complainant. Only the fact that the police can neither contradict nor confirm the claim of the injured person is not yet sufficient to automatically take into account the allegations made by the police officer, especially if the person was physically injured in the proceedings. Too much commitment, in brackets, the police were also observed in the Ombudsman in expelling people from the country, especially those who have families in Slovenia. However, the correctness of police procedures must not be a reason for inactivity. This has been shown several times mainly in relation to illegal actions by private protection services when the police did not intervene, even though they should.The state lays down the rules of the game and prepares and issues laws, but is responsible that its employees also understand these rules. Therefore, an individual cannot bear the consequences of any error in the rules, loopholes in the laws or ignorance of officials. Therefore, when it comes to ambiguity, it is necessary to make a decision in behalf of an individual, which is often overlooked. An individual is always the first to get hurt. When deciding on the award of citizenship, this interpretation of laws sometimes points to discrimination on an economic basis. We are referring to the requirements for proof of the means of subsistence provided, especially for spouses or parents of Slovenian citizens. Rejecting the issue of citizenship due to underprivileged family income makes it difficult for a person, parent, to obtain employment or other benefits, and thus further impeding Slovenian citizens into poverty. On the other hand, the question is whether richer parents have more rights to live with their children than poorer ones. We also disagree with the Ombudsman on the way to decide who constitutes a threat to the country. The fact that someone was employed in JLA alone does not prove this in itself, in particular if there is sufficient presumption, that concrete evidence is needed as explained in the explanation of the decision that the injured person may challenge it. Otherwise, his rights to equal legal protection are violated. A particular problem is violence, especially in the family, violence that we do not know or do not want to solve properly. And there's a child who's either a direct victim or at least a powerless observer. In recent years this problem has become more visible mainly due to the efforts of civil society and NGOs. This is too slowly followed by a country with amended legislation and practice. Safe houses for victims of violence are one of the solutions, but unfortunately only temporary. It is unacceptable to practice when a country helps a violent person to exercise his will and expels victims of violence from their own home. It is therefore necessary to draw up and adopt and enforce laws that will protect the victim and ensure security at her home, and that the abuser has psychosocial assistance and thus the possibility of changing his behaviour if he does. I'm not going to talk about the string cross because I have a different opinion about it and I don't want to sow any more discords. We are going to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which stipulates that the situation and special rights of the Roma community in Slovenia are governed by law. Part of this situation of special rights is governed by individual sectoral laws. In view of the partial regulation of this issue and the problems faced by the Roma community, the Ombudsman considers that it would be more appropriate if the situation and rights of their communities were fully regulated by a specific law. As I recall, it's been over ten years, which is what we've been talking about. The law should cover all areas of Roma concern and should precisely delimit the powers and obligations of the State and local communities, including financial ones. The obligation to regulate the specific rights of members of the Roma communities is now largely passed on to the municipalities without having the means to do so. According to the provision of the Law on Local Self-Government, only Roma have the right of representation in municipal councils from areas where the indigenous Roma community lives. The Ombudsman considers that all national communities should ensure that their rights are exercised on the same basis or at least clearly define what autonomy means and establish criteria for meeting this condition. Under the current legislation, the representatives of these communities do not have an appropriate interlocutor at the level of authority or authority to monitor and resolve their problems. The Office for Nationality deals only with the issue of constitutionally defined communities. The Office for this field of action could also address the problems of other communities. Last year, the Ombudsman received several initiatives from same-sex partners who believe that when they cannot enter into a marriage, their constitutional rights have been violated, particularly the right to free choice of the marriage partner. The Constitution leaves the law to the law. The Law on Marriage and Family Relations makes it possible to have a marriage between persons of different sexes. Until the Constitutional Court may decide otherwise, such arrangements shall be in accordance with the Constitution. Now we come back to the tough nut. Last year, the Islamic Community in the Republic of Slovenia requested the Ombudsman to intervene in the planned construction of the Islamic Cultural Centre in Ljubljana. The procedure led by the Municipality of Ljubljana was in the stage of preparing responses to the comments made at the time of the public decommissioning of the spatial act to determine the location of the Islamic cultural centre. According to MOL, this issue is beyond the competence of the local community and certain issues should therefore also be resolved at national level. However, the Ombudsman was sent from the Office of Religious Communities to explain that this issue is solely within the purview - although the Director of the Office of Religious Communities was asked to take a clear and unequivocal position on the construction of the centre. This has not yet been identified by the Office, although this problem has lasted more than 30 years. The Ombudsman’s Office is convinced that in the present case, discrimination is reflected in the obstruction of the proceedings. The Islamic Community has been working for almost 30 years in the Republic of Slovenia to acquire an object where it can perform its religious rituals. Formally, the procedure under consideration is the responsibility of the local community. The Office also has the task of working with ministries, other national local authorities and organisations in the resolution of open religious communities. The Ombudsman's warning in the 2001 annual report that guards must strictly respect proportionality in the use of coercive means, as a fundamental principle of the incarceration of detainees, has also been taken into account in its report by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. In doing so, the report explicitly referred to a letter from the Ombudsman sent to the Minister of Justice on 10 June 2001. A similar report from the European Committee also supports the Ombudsman's efforts to ensure longer visits to the detention centre and that visits without a glass barrier are defined as a rule. The Ombudsman was given such warnings by the Minister of Justice with the view that the adoption of visits to the Rules of Procedure was satisfactorily regulated when the detention was carried out and that it would not be advisable to amend it in this respect. In response to the same recommendation of the already mentioned European Committee, these visits should be an exception and not a rule, however, the Government replied that the arrangements for visits to detainees should be reconsidered, both in terms of regulatory arrangements, in particular the provision that visits to detainees should normally be carried out for a glass barrier and that, within the framework of spatial and human resources options, the duration of visits should be extended. It appears, therefore, that the Ombudsman's efforts to amend the regulation to provide detainees with a more open regime of visits and a longer duration, but to achieve the desired objective, with the support of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture. These are small things for us who have never been to prison or we've only been in prison for a few hours. They're probably not that small for the detainees. The initiatives of the detainees have, as a rule, confirmed disagreement with or with the extension of a certain detention. However, a number of discontents were at the expense of the advocates, who were placed on official duty. In this regard, the instigators indicated that representation was worse when it was not a contractual relationship with the defendant himself. But money is a holy ruler. The Commission is responsible for the conditional discharge of the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for granting conditional leave, to assess seriously and carefully all the circumstances of the individual case and to take a decision consistent with the purposes and objectives of conditional discharge. Let me mention here that between the conditions for the use of conditional leave of guards, the behaviour or conduct of the perpetrator in relation to the injured person as a victim of a criminal offence is lacking. Again, it is worth noting that conditional dismissal should not occur if the conviction does not show a change of attitude towards the injured person, and also, in particular, by repaying him for the damage he has suffered or at least sincerely striving to do so in his best interests. It is difficult to understand that this is a specific case where the perpetrator of an alleged crime, responsible for the death of one person and for the serious injury of another person, has been free of his seven-year prison sentence after four years and eleven months and has been suspended on condition, while the seriously injured victim has been in vain for many years to pay for the damage suffered. Such a damaged incentive has justifiably complained that the state has let it down. Unfortunately, even 2002 did not bring the long-awaited and projected change in the legislative field in relation to people with mental health problems. There has also been no significant progress in the parliamentary process in the adoption of legislation to regulate mental health, including the rights of mental patients in 2002. Clearly, then, agony continues when the political prestige of the two marriage proposals does not withdraw humanity and interest in ensuring the full protection of persons with mental disabilities as soon as possible. This is an unacceptable finding in the adoption of this so important law on human rights and fundamental freedoms. Many of the Ombudsman’s initiatives point to frequent forced evictions [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Court. In particular, they are active in the field of economic society, independent entrepreneurs, individuals and independent craftsmen who carry out private protection under the provisions of the Act on the Private Protection of the Compulsory Organisation of the CFSP Protection Service. Forcible evictions shall take place on the basis of a fixed prescription, a creditor or only a self-invoiceed creditor shall enter into a contract with a legal or natural person who has a licence to exercise private protection. They enter the apartment against the will of the people who use the apartment and begin moving. With the cooperation of the moving service from the apartment they take equipment and furniture, load things on the truck and take the storage elsewhere. The vacant apartment shall then be handed over to the contracting authority, i.e. to the contracting party. Article 15 of the ECSC explicitly tells legal and natural persons who have licences for the performance of private protection, the conclusion of contracts or the performance of tasks for which the law establishes or authorises police or judicial authorities. If the owner has a discharge request against the person using the apartment, self-help shall not be permitted. It requires the intervention of the State or its authorities as a rule by the court. Of course, the most effective intervention of the country due to illegal behaviour is the immediate action of the police. However, the police called for intervention in the event of the forced discharge of an apartment operated by the creditor or the owner of the apartment, as a rule, only ascertains that the legal signs of the offence of arbitraryity under Article 313(1) of the Penal Code, which is being prosecuted for a private action, could be presented. That means for the police to end the intervention. The victim of forced discharge of the apartment is left to himself. There are always more and more violations in the Republic of Slovenia, even though most people are responsible for the crimes. However, it did not bring any new system legislation until the end of 2002. And there is still a line of law on crimes against public order and peace from afar in 1974. There are more and more rules laying down offences, which also have the effect of an increase in the number of offences. Again, that means that the judges for the offences are overloaded with work. Especially in the larger centres and at the second stage, judges are faced with a large, seemingly uncontrollable amount of work. In proceedings in first-degree infringement judges, prosecutions in a quarter of all cases under review. In addition, reports of obsoletes at a second stage also raise concern. The inefficiency of procedures is also similar. The explanation of the proposed offence law indicates the recovery rate of the fines and the costs of the procedure even below 10 per cent. Ineffective recovery means several billion tolls of loss for the country each year. People just don't pay for crimes. Swindlers can laugh at judges for offences, injured persons, judges and the smiling rule of law. If it doesn't get old, the Vitotroeps use another trick. They're complaining, and they're very likely to be waiting for the whole thing to get old. The Ombudsman often accepts complaints from the initiators that the Judge for Offences in Decision-making has followed the criminal proposal in full and insufficient terms, such as the police, without at the same time listening to the defendant's opposite position. For a fair trial, it is essential that the person whose rights, duties, or legal interests are the subject of a judicial procedure has adequate and sufficient possibilities so that statements can be made on the facts and legal aspects of the case. The lack of explanation of the offence decision constitutes a violation of the right to an effective appeal provided for in Article 25 of the Constitution. Police at the border. According to the local word, foreigners who are in a crime may find themselves in incredible trouble. A foreigner shall not be allowed to leave the country if a criminal procedure, an offence procedure is imposed against him or another procedure in which his presence is required and so shall be required by the authority conducting the procedure. This offence is usually that someone was driving too fast. By 2002, the police had temporarily retained a travel document, if necessary, in order to ensure the presence of a foreigner in the proceedings. After the amendment of the law on foreigners, he does not retain his travel documents, but with the order of detention, he takes away his liberty. A minor measure to ensure that the perpetrator is present in the proceedings is therefore replaced by a stricter, more limited measure, although there are no reasonable reasons for such a change. And finally, the sweetest. An offender who could avoid payment of a fine by leaving abroad must pay the fine immediately at the place of the offence. He has to pay a fine in tolars. If he has only foreign currency, he has to take care of the change of money to the tolars. At nighttime, when the exchange rooms are closed, it can be difficult. The police also send foreigners 20 kilometers away, on foot of course, to the first exchange office at the gas station, or at the border crossing to change foreign currency to the tolars. If he fails to correct a financial penalty immediately, he shall not retain a travel document for a foreigner, but may bring him to the authority responsible for the infringement proceedings, which is usually also the detention until the official hours of the offender judge begin. It's like Kafka got out of his grave. Well, it's not the end of the police again. The uniform cannot be granted an absolute advantage over the person concerned. The affected person often has a strong interest in not telling the truth. However, it cannot be ruled out that a police officer has an interest in describing the situation differently than it did. In this respect, the judgment of the Celje High Court, 24 September 2002, which considers the testimony of a police officer to be completely improbable, is interesting. A police officer was questioned as a witness in the criminal proceedings, claiming that the defendant, during transport to the detention facility, also threatened his safety with a serious threat of killing them, shooting them, tearing their heads off. Really, the threat is serious. On the other hand, the Court of Second Instance considered that the other evidence produced provided reliable evidence that the accused, at the expense of that police officer, could not have committed the crime of endangering security, since this police officer had not cooperated in the transport of the accused to detention facilities at all. Then there are the classic stories of wicked individuals who, on purpose, beat themselves up with cars just to make the lives of police officers bitter. In one such case, a police officer who was in charge of the procedure claimed that a large number of neutral witnesses were present who were expected to confirm such unreasonable actions by the injured person, and later in the appeal period it was shown that the police could not state any witnesses who could confirm the vehement claim of self-harm during the police procedure. It's over. A scary story, which, fortunately, almost ended, although by the way, could have run out tragically. With a request for assistance, several foreigners were contacted by the Ombudsman who had to leave the country because of their refusal to grant a temporary residence permit. The case of a citizen of the former SFRJ, married to a Slovenian citizen and the father of a minor girl who was deleted from the Register of Permanent Population in 1992. Due to complications in the procedures for granting a permanent or temporary residence permit of 20. 3. 2000 didn't have any status. He has never been punished or treated in any way in law enforcement. When he applied for citizenship and checked for compliance, the police found that he resided illegally in the Republic of Slovenia and forcibly removed him from the country on the same day. Despite the fact that the initiator was partly responsible for himself, since he did not arrange for his stay under the law on foreigners, they are hard to understand the urgency of the police. Despite the failure of the judge to agree to their motion for expulsion from the country and to impose only the lowest possible fine on the initiator, the police removed him from the country a few hours after the decision was issued. In the following days, the instigator received a visa to enter the Republic of Slovenia, returned home and obtained a temporary residence permit. There is no valid explanation for the police’s decision to remove and, in particular, for the method of execution. If any Member or Member is more interested in the story, it shall be found in the Ombudsman's report in its entirety. Older and unemployed. More than a tragic story are older workers who are bullied by companies in every way possible. They're turning to the guardian's on-call phone more and more. Workers feel that they are being bullied because they are making it harder to reach the norm or because their performance has dropped slightly over the years. For the most part, job-oriented employers therefore make a proposal to young people. Young workers, especially when they are obedient and uncritically loyal, are making progress and are better rewarded. Even more tragic is the story of older unemployed people who, despite their efforts, do not get a job, and the conditions for a retirement pension will not be fulfilled for several years. Their examples are particularly shocking, directly frightening. They are usually more than 50 years old, have more than 30 years of working age, have used the rights they have as unemployed persons, and are now entitled only to financial social assistance or not if the family’s income is too high. It is a serious personal hardship for such people because it is very humiliating that they have been active for all these years, and now they are exposed to poverty and depend solely on the help of relatives. Their unemployment did not arise on their will or guilt. Of course, the state allows them to survive, but the modest social assistance they receive is not proportionate to their work contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. My forerunner almost picked up all the subjects I was going to talk about, so I could be shorter. In fact, I see this report as a criticism of government work, criticism of the work of the National Assembly, criticism of the work of the institutions. And if, for most of the injustices that occur to individuals in this country, it is the bad legislation or the will of individuals who should enforce it, then of course I would expect both the government and the ruling coalition in Parliament to try to change these matters on the basis of this report, not to help itself criticise what is wrong. That would be the point of such reports, if not, but, as the Ombudsman himself notes, the presentation of such reports is actually the work of Sisyphus. Because we're talking about something here today, and we're going to talk about it for another hour or two, and nothing's going to change. I'm sure that's not the point. If I only touch on some of the areas mentioned by the Ombudsman. Here he speaks on page 7, 8 that the National Assembly, instead of overlying with legislation, deals with major historical topics and tasks, while the attitude to the needs and pressures of small people remains carefree. I can, sir, agree with that. Of course, I would like to tell you that when these great darknesses are exhausted, of course there will be no longer any need to deal with them. We will have to solve these great issues in this country once and for all. They remain unresolved. Just one case that's not a year old. I was approached by a 78-year-old man who was sick, he said, "I'm at a place of vitality." In 1945 they came one night, took my father away, some told me after the war that he had been killed and buried near the Borl castle before I died, Mr. Member, I would like to know if that was true and where my father's grave is. I have asked this question of the Minister for Home Affairs. Mr. Justice Minister was just as here. In fact, I would like to please this man and answer that humble request. The answer was that nothing had happened on Borl and that there was no mass grave there, even though all the inhabitants who lived there knew it was true. So this is the destruction of state power against its own citizens. And these are the great historical themes that remain unresolved. Until they are resolved, this issue will continue to be repeated. The Ombudsman is the institution that has this right and this duty to remind, as such, of these unresolved matters, as all those that are provided on a daily basis. I am talking about the judicial backlog; and this is indeed one of the cancerous wounds of our system. Of course, it is necessary to say and analyse what these judicial backlogs mean and how they come about. I was greatly surprised by the fact that the country is involved in lawsuits with its citizens every year with more than 40,000 cases. That's the information that Mr. Deisinger said. When comparing this with other countries, he found that this was not the case in other countries. Thus, the State itself causes this multitude of judicial proceedings and thus, of course, directly and indirectly, helps to accumulate judicial backlogs and does not resolve cases in the courts as they should be resolved. The third area, which you mentioned very briefly as the Ombudsman, is the area of employment relations, unemployment and related social injustices. It is very encouraging for you to conclude that there is less belonging in this area than it was for last year's report. And I wonder if the situation in this area is really much better. I answer myself that no, for the injustices that take place in this area, citizens in various surveys put first. The problems of this country include unemployment, labour abandonment and social disparities always in all surveys in the first place. I wonder why these cases fall on the Ombudsman probably because most citizens have lost hope. With all this legislation, which today can exclude an employee from the work process, as in that television broadcast - I don't know what it's called, a weak article - when they can simply send him as a weak article and he doesn't represent anything for this society anymore and he doesn't have any rights. In this area, matters are extremely problematic and I think that we should devote ourselves to this area, but not be satisfied with the fact that conversion to the Ombudsman is less. People have lost hope. I'd like to mention another area where you're talking about children's rights. While it is true that children are a weak member of a society and that this area needs to be closely monitored, I would expect you, as the Ombudsman, to protect children in an environment where they live, to also point out the appropriateness of the environment, to everything that can affect children's feelings today, and what actually burdens them in the environment in which they live. Not only am I thinking about the micro-environment within the family, but especially about the macro environment, how they feel in school, how their media affect them and so on. You have described many cases in your report. These cases are read as a tense story. Of course, Members could add many more cases to this that citizens in our sent offices are telling us. Sometimes things seem impossible, but they are real; they happen to people every day. It's up to all of us to do more and protect these people. If I tell you just one case I've heard of in the last week. A 42 - year - old man lived on his farm from birth until the age of 42, went to work, worked, made all his contributions, invested all his work in reconstruction, and then suddenly found out that a daughter who had not lived outside the farm had actually convinced her parents that they had taken a mortgage. She didn't pay off her credit. Then came a gentleman from Ljubljana and told him that this farm is no longer theirs, that he no longer has the right to live here. And what happened? He wanted to commit suicide. Although he did not get lucky, he ended up in a psychiatric hospital in Ormož, and from a psychiatric hospital he was placed in a municipal social home, at the expense of the state and the congregation. I think that this is due to incorrect legislation and that this legislation, which allows such procedures, should be amended without delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! As a member of the National Committee for Petitions, this second term, I note that it is necessary and useful to make a joint analysis of all the applications received in our country by different bodies or institutions dealing with the issue of human rights protection. Here I am not only referring to the institution of the Ombudsman, but also to the Commission for Petitions of the National Assembly and the Office of the President of the Republic. Of course, the Ombudsman is also the most burdened human rights Ombudsman with matters, and he also has sufficient professional support and good staffing. Why would it be good to do a unified analysis? Let's just look at the statistics of the 2002 cases received by the Ombudsman and our petition commission. If we treat them separately, we get a statistically extremely distorted picture of the state of human rights in the country. In 2002, the Ombudsman received 2,807 different complaints from citizens and citizens, representing 13.1% less cases than in 2001. In the petition committee, however, the matter is upside down. In 2002, she received 426 cases, 38% more complaints or applications than in 2001. So, statistically speaking, the Ombudsman Matjaž Hanžek may find that the human rights situation in the country is improving and the President of the Commission for Petitions Janez Drobnic may vice versa. Unfortunately, I don't know how many cases the Office of the President of the Republic is dealing with. Of course, in my view, not all the problems faced by citizens and citizens who are sometimes trying to solve their problems in vain come before the institutions mentioned above. From my own practice in the parliamentary office in the constituency, I can say that I face different problems and roles, of course, which are not covered by any statistics on a weekly basis. Similarly, in the offices of my fellow Members and colleagues, as we have heard many times today, the mayors are sometimes the subject of similar cases. For example, over the past few years, I have been very busy with long-term procedures, both in front of local and in front of national authorities, in particular with regard to the change in the spatial documents of local communities, and I could still list them. Over the last period, I have also dealt with asbestos-related issues and the implementation of the so-called asbestos law, which will expire next year. The trend in newly discovered patients is about 150 per year and according to doctors, it will last for at least 10 years if not even 20 years or more. The uncertainty of asbestos patients and, above all, of workers working in asbestos production is high. In particular, it may mean reducing the rights of patients who will be found later. Here the government and the legislator can react very quickly and extend the validity of the law. The following is the case in this area: the backlog and the delay in proceedings before the courts. Under Slovenian law, compensation is suspended if the applicant dies before the legal authority of the action. In patients with mesothelioma pleural disease, as a result of contact with asbestos, the average survival period is less than one year. Patients with such a disease have no opportunity to challenge their legal right. Regrettably, the defendant's interest arises several times after the delay of court proceedings in order to avoid payment of compensation and so on. There is also a range of legal and moral problems that can be adequately addressed. The right to petition is a constitutional category. As stated in Article 45 of the Constitution, every citizen has the right to petition and other initiatives of general interest, and we must also deal carefully with the protection of human rights and problems and act as a legislator. I am aware, however, that the relationship between the Government, the National Assembly and other institutions to the Ombudsman's report is improving. I myself have always debated the reports of the past years, and I have pointed out that we are overly girlish and superficial in dealing with reports, as if they were none of our business. If I compare the first reading of the Ombudsman's report in the National Assembly in early 1998 with today's and the general public's response, I need to find that they are different as night and day. Despite some attempts to devalue this institution in today's debate, which cannot benefit both the opposition and the position, and even less the citizens, it fully justified its existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to the well-respected Ombudsman and, of course, the well-respected Minister, the other government representative. Of course, I will take this opportunity to tell the Ombudsman, who is unfortunately not here among us, but I would really ask him to come in, because I think we are discussing his report and I would like to tell him something, and I think this is a very big problem if we have Members to discuss this report and the Ombudsman is not here. But anyway, I hope he reads the magnetogram. The Ombudsman says that the government immediately engaged his findings and the report to deal successfully with specific cases of problems with individual ministers, and therefore it is the right place to solve problems with him. Many people are turning to the Group of Members as well as to Members. I will cite two cases and hand over this material to Mr Hanzk, in a desire and hope, because I trust his authority to save them, as he says they can be saved in cooperation with the government and the ministers. The first problem is the problem of Slovenian citizens of former Croatian pensioners. This is a simple case that Mr Hanžek also describes in chapter 11 under point 2, these are the people who worked in Croatia as Slovenian citizens during the period of the common country and worked through Slovenian companies in Croatia. Today, these people receive substantially lower pensions than those who have done a comparable job with us. It is, in my opinion, an unacceptable difference between people who are not to blame if they were working in a common country and are now deprived of money. I mean, looking purely human, that's not right. This is guilt, this is man's fault. I believe that Mr Hanžek, with his authority, can propose an appropriate regulation of this issue to the Minister, in particular the Minister responsible for his work. Another, even bigger problem, I believe, is the problem of workers who have lost their jobs because of the bankruptcy of a subsidiary, otherwise independent legal entity, and are now entitled only to compensation from the guarantee fund. While the mother is functioning further, workers who have been dismissed in the womb are granted severance and substantially greater financial leave than those who have been dismissed in the bankruptcy of a subsidiary. I don't think that's right either, because it's the same owner. In fact, it is a similar form, but some workers are entitled to it and others are not entitled to it. The workers are not completely at fault in this; it is an anomaly of Slovenian legislation. I know that, as a member of the opposition council, if I propose an appropriate amendment to the legislation, which is the basis for the elimination of these injustices that I have cited here today, I will not succeed. I'm not going to make it because my colleagues in positions will give me one hundred reasons, most likely because my approach would be non-systematic, unprofessional even, I would be violating, I don't know, some other solution somewhere else. Since Mr Hanžek introductoryly said - and here I also have a magnetogram and I believe that this is so - to talk about solving specific cases with individual ministers, that this is a constant form of communication to address the country's irregularity. I think I've listed two cases of irregularities - that people with similar fates, which are treated differently, have different final solutions, for some unjust, for others probably just. That is why I am asking Mr Hanšek, and I am also handing him two cases in a series of stories, probably other cases, and I am asking him, as well as those people whose contact details are listed, to answer in this sense, what can be done for them in cooperation with the government, and believe me that the opposition will listen to this to the greatest extent and support all solutions that equalize human rights in similar cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you very much. There's no Mr. Squirrel. Mr. Marshich, please. Mr. Visjak, please, if you'll turn it off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dearly respected, the Ombudsman with fellow workers, distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman's report is, we all agree, a mirror to our society and also to us politicians who rightly offer rather unpleasant reflections, a reminder, as the Ombudsman wrote in the report on the big historical stories and projects, that we overlook the difficulties and problems of a small person or that we are carefree of the needs and pressures of small groups. And with this claim, I fully agree with the Ombudsman. I come from an area where there is also the Italian Nationality Community, which you, Sir Hanžek, have visited recently and also had a round table. I have always believed that in all these years of life in this area, the regulation of the protection of minorities in Slovenia is not only at European level, but that it is a positive discrimination against our fellow citizens and nationals of Italian and Hungarian nationalities above the level of this protection in Europe. We talked a lot these days, especially about erased yesterday. Quiet, but quietly, I can tell you that we have disappeared among us. The latest report on the census in the Republic of Slovenia showed a very worrying indication of the dramatic decline in the number of our citizens declared as Hungarians or Italians. In fact, the number of Slovenians decreased by 3.5%, Hungary decreased by 22% and Italians by 23.5%. The Commission of the National Assembly and members of the Club of Coastal Members drew attention to the alarming situation. I regret to say that, despite the Members' request for an analysis of the reasons for such a situation, neither the Nationality Commission nor others have received any detailed justification from the competent services or the Ministry of Justice for the drastic decline of members of minorities. Members of minority organisations had already pointed out that the reduction of minorities was mainly due to the country which is constantly reducing budget resources for the work of minority organisations, as well as to RTV Slovenia, in recent plans, to reduce funds for the regional RTV centre in Cyprus, and thus, of course, the programme in the Italian language. But there are also much more acute reasons to talk about Semination, impatience and bullying on a national basis. At the last budget session, minority representatives reiterated that certain budgetary resources were being deducted in the year when very worrying statistics came on the day, and that it was increasingly difficult and increasingly less attractive to be a minority, that a third of the minority had renounced, not their own language, but their nationalities, so that they probably did not feel so free, free, equal. The Ombudsman's report does not provide a detailed analysis of this issue. In your report, there is only a dry sentence on the constitutionally guaranteed collective protection of the indigenous Italian, Hungarian and Roma communities, and in one case, as regards the Italian national community, you have not found sufficient grounds for your action. There is also no specific comment on the protection of these two indigenous minorities in the report of the Commissioner for Human Rights, Alvar Hilrobles, which he prepared on his visit to Slovenia from 11 to 14 May 2003 for the European Union Parliamentary Assembly. The statements of some prominent representatives of our minority who warn that they live in a minority of hostile environments, which claim that the new project of the coastal university was also created with anti-Italian intents, including an awkward name in Italian, and that in Slovenia a systematic and capillary operation of marginalisation and denial of cultural, linguistic and civilisational Italian tradition is being carried out, as well as the transformation of the culture of this area with the support of so-called scientific research, cannot be left at this point without adequate response and attention. If this is said by the elected representative of the Italian community in the National Assembly, who say that the weak Italian minority in Slovenia is subject to disgraceful isolation, national primitiveism, as shamelessly as it gets, without sharing the civilisations and cultural values of others, i.e. the Italian minority, and the assimilation of the minority, this national assembly must be envisioned. If all of this is true, then such a situation should have a place in the Ombudsman's report. If all of this is true, it is an eccentric violation of the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the minority and its members and members, who must take care of the state and, above all, this National Assembly. By raising this issue, I am opening the question here so that the problems do not remain silent. They've been around a lot. The problem is, the question is, if so acutely put, especially because the government has not prepared any expert analysis. If they are expressed by minorities themselves, it is only right that we listen to and act in the National Assembly, before this area becomes more extensive in the next report of the Ombudsman or in any other report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. First, I would like to say a few words about the drafting of this report. Of course, there are many things, events, irregularities, problems of the Slovenian state, the functioning of institutions or the problem of human rights. Maybe I'm counting on him that he's too anecdotic, but not too systematic about it. Lack of focus on key, fundamental, constitutional provisions and law. It is also not possible to identify the benefits of the functioning institute. Nor does the report itself mention all this action, such as the effects, the effects on the legal functioning and protection of human rights or the implementation of the law. Perhaps the guardian, this can be found through this description, sometimes anecdotally, changes the criteria. In accordance with the special affection for certain categories of citizens or the disfavor of some others. So don't stick to the symmetrical position. The special category, of course, is police when it happens according to some articles, also in newspapers, that apparently the police are the greatest enemy of rights. I'd argue otherwise, or I'd put some weight on it. That the lack of action of the police makes it possible or liberates so that human rights are not realized. Let's get rid of this strange-assed position that the police and the judicial system are the biggest obstacles to rights or, as Mr Zląbst points out, that it is necessary to fight the country. The State is an institution that, after all, guarantees human rights in this civil society. It's just revolutionary law, the idea of revolutionary law, but I wouldn't put much on it. But in terms of other things, I think they're written out in broad terms and they're indicative of the problem of action. In this respect, a few words, including praiseworthy words, are spoken by the opposition to this institution, i.e. the Ombudsman. Of course, it points to the issue of the functioning of the executive branch, as well as the legislative branch. Legislation on non-coordinated laws, which are still contrary to the Constitution, is not a constitutional law. Some of them have had beards for seven years. Obviously, they have been deleted and they have been given this support, which is, of course, impractical, in terms of providing some legal certainty, but I wonder why some other laws should be left behind and some other categories should be left behind. I wouldn't repeat whether there were any substantive reasons behind it. Whom we love more, or Slovenian children who, or parents who have to survive, or those who have been allegedly erased. Contacting parents and divorced spouses is a very difficult matter. Those who participate in the petition committee know that parents, especially those who have not obtained a child during divorce proceedings, are very complaining and that their rights are obviously violated here. In the New Slovenia Group, we have proposed an immediate amendment to this Article of the Family Marriage Act in order to ensure, at the time of divorce proceedings, that contacts between the two parents should be maintained without delay, that this is an integral part of the decision or judicial decision or any judicial order followed by this, that this is decided in court. And that a complaint cannot prevent it from continuing except, of course, a court decision prohibiting a person from committing a crime or anything that would endanger the child's life. Well, that's not it. This law that we have submitted has, in our view, been inadvertently rejected. This time we would have had a lot of good solutions. The Health Insurance Act, I mentioned it today. The Ombudsman points out that last year's legislation, the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is somewhat Hagueian. Obviously, this is the same thing happening, in this very session, that marriage is adopted in a similar way. And it touches on identical provisions. Let us see what the Ombudsman says about the storage of personal data for too long, the reason being that the data are not erased within the legal time limit and that the rules often do not set a time limit after which the data must be deleted. Have you, colleagues and colleagues, looked at the provision of this bill, which we can no longer change, since this provision has not been attacked. Even after the expiry of this five-year period, when the data need to be deleted, the following provision retains the diction so that it can then continue, I do not know for what purposes, store the data. It's as if we're still in the previous system when we have official lists and secret official lists. When will we prevent such practices? In New Slovenia we strongly oppose such practices. And secondly, the opinion, what the Ombudsman had stated in connection with this amendment of the law. The amendment of the law was an intervention within the scope of those rights and also within the range of beneficiaries of individual rights to be guaranteed from compulsory health insurance and the changes were therefore very public. This is also one of the reasons why the Ombudsman responded to these changes prior to the introduction of concrete initiatives, and invited the Minister of Health, within the time limit set, to take note of the consequences of changes in the law, to ensure the equal accessibility of insurers to the appropriate forms and methods of treatment and diagnosis and other consequences of the effects of the novel. As soon as the amendments to the law were in force, the minister also estimated that the changes relating to the reimbursement of travel expenses would not be sustained by funerals and post-mortems, so the law was amended again in this part of June. Although the Ombudsman, following the adoption of this amendment in December 2001, which had less favourable conditions for the exercise of these rights, criticised the procedure whereby the National Assembly adopted amendments to the law, as well as only the content of the legislative amendments, which, in our view, was non-systematic and reckless, could not, in a particular case, have been more than a warning. But these warnings, as well as our warnings, were like bob against a wall, just as they warned at today's session. But this front goes on, and the press won't write anything, because they believe in the power of government. So, this is the Health Insurance Act. About the number of unemployed people with disabilities. I have repeatedly pointed out that it is growing rapidly. The means of integration into work remain nominally the same amount, which means that if we look at disabled people, it is significantly less. So, Mr. Bizjak, this thing is not true, your claim that it is more intended. Where is the law on equal opportunities mentioned by the government? Whether it is a declaration or a real effort, and almost a year ago, this ruling coalition rejected the law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities. The European Law of Conduct, which was tabled by Nova Slovenije. You said he was going to be invested in a very comprehensive, professional, I don't know, something else, a world-famous marriage. Where is this marriage? Do you know that, as of 1 January, the provisions of the Labour Relations Act will apply, where again the problem of the forgiveness of persons with disabilities will arise? There's no more time. Unless you renegotiate the Rules of Procedure and the Basic Law, not the amendment of the Law, you will enforce it in a reduced procedure, as you are paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Decision on deleted. You're breaking these procedures at every turn. Schools for extraordinary studies - yes, that's a strange example, a strange masonry. If Slovenia wants to be, as far as this is concerned, in some prosperity, we will have to ensure to all those who really have talents, even if they do not have money, entry to schools, not such differentials as exists now. Beneficiaries fail to obtain decisions until the injustices are rectified. Mr Minister Bizjak, the petition commission has also appealed, let two more possibly contract employment or hire them from hundreds who are not doing anything. When I asked the Minister of the Interior - a list of the hundred who do nothing in the state administration - they are high-ranking staff, some of whom are also lawyers - to get them into their own area, and it will cost nothing more. Let's turn to the others. This is what Mrs Marta Kos, who fucked the Director of the Information Office, is writing about; we have to believe, believe, or lie. Now just one last sentence, two short thoughts. At the new salary budget, the Ombudsman cut off a huge cake, increasing his salary by almost 30%. A fine example for dealing with the problem of poverty in Slovenia. And that's the end of the media concentration. That's where the mimicry happens. The media concentration in Slovenia exists, but not this regular, ideological, from one centre that controls all of this. So that then we have an opinion concentration, a speech concentration, a visual concentration, a monopolized distribution channel all the time. Berlusconi in the neighbouring country represents a real, transparent concentration. What about the collective concentration of Slovenian media space, under one personal bot? We know who this personal godfather is in Slovenia. And this is the concentration, at which you can imagine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! I have also decided today to seize this exceptional opportunity when we consider the Ombudsman's report in Parliament, and I say a few words, thoughts relating to environmental protection and sustainable development. This path will not be able to demand an environmental report as it has in the past twice, because we already have it and I will focus on other matters. The Ombudsman notes that it would be encouraging and encouraging if the number of initiatives that have decreased by 34 compared to the previous period were an important indicator of environmental interventions and space management. In particular, the predominant initiatives under consideration relate to over-emission of various toxic substances into the environment in the course of various economic and other activities, to over-burdening the environment with noise caused by different production facilities. Most significant are those initiatives relating to the construction of housing and other facilities without appropriate permits, but poor and not often enough to take appropriate inspections to protect and protect the environment. Sustainable development is a new development paradigm that also includes an economy, a social, social and environmental component. Unfortunately, however, there is a major gap between the declaration definition of sustainable development and environmental protection and the implementation and monitoring of the implementation of legislation and measures that enable and encourage such development. This is certainly not only a Slovenian problem, but it is also faced elsewhere. The implementation deficit is reflected in the insufficient implementation of the laws adopted, including in the strategic documents and in the inefficiency of the functioning of the Government and its bodies in the composition, in particular in the area of the problem that requires a patient, sustained dialogue between the various partners within the government in inter-sectoral coordination and negotiation. The recent project "manothere", a mirror to the government, also notes the under-inclusion of environmental content in various sectoral policies in implementing action strategic documents. What should you do if things happen over and over again? Education is the long-acting tablet, unfortunately very slowly. But the effect is permanent, read sustainable development. Examples of good practice. For example, in the Swedish Parliament, they educate all parliamentarians at the beginning of their mandate on all laws relating to the environment, environmental protection, sustainable development. We do not know or have not yet introduced such an education in our Parliament. The Globe Parliamentary Group has repeatedly addressed the issue of education for the environment and the environment, particularly in relation to school systems, the aim was to include environmental education in a comprehensive and integrated way, so that the environment and the principle of sustainable development are involved, an integral part of each school subject. I will no longer continue because I do not have enough time, but actually I wanted to say that the principle of education is also included in the university for the third life period. Unfortunately, a generation between the ages of 35 and 50, a generation that I actually have the ability to influence and implement today has somehow fallen out of this system. What to do may also be an initiative for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsman with colleagues, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, listing from this report is for everyone mainly in those areas that he most encounters in his work and with which he deals most. Of course, it is not a pleasure if you have to deal with the most areas such as unemployment, the pension of farmers, the disabled, the disability commission and poverty and social distress. Regrettably, in this country, some of us come from places where, of course, these things are being scaled up. Regrettably, in this report, the Ombudsman does not, however, draw sufficient attention to this issue, but even less so to require the Government to require certain draft laws, not least of which have been sitting, waiting for a procedure for several years, the government does not withdraw from the drawers and, of course, submit them or not come into the procedure of the National Assembly. Why not? Simply because, of course, he is afraid to discuss this subject and then it is better to "beat" things so that the guardian does not join in to help in this area, but of course, it becomes somewhat questionable. With regard to unemployment, the Ombudsman writes that the global problem of unemployment is not reduced; the content of initiatives, as in previous years, relates mainly to the longevity of unemployment, to poor, unequal employment opportunities for people with disabilities, the sick, the disabled and the elderly. From the initiatives, the number of those brought by unemployment usually also means social exclusion, which, of course, pushes an individual into animosity towards a society that does not give him a chance for a decent life. I note that some unemployed have been turning to the Ombudsman for many years and then finding that this shows that active policy measures are not sufficiently effective. True, one of the laws I spoke of has already been introduced in the National Assembly. In fact, this inactive policy, the Ombudsman, could, of course, be much better resolved through local communities as well as through public works and through a number of other such activities that would be useful. However, of course, it is necessary for the state to transfer huge billions to the local community, which are now in the Ministry and are, of course, divided from Ljubljana, sometimes unjustifiablely, even to those who are not needed by no means, because of the absence of control, on the other hand, there are various speculations and black work, etc., because in this artistic way there is a kind of struggle and some satisfaction. On the other hand, those who, of course, fail to do so suffer even more. There is also a record to consider when the Ombudsman writes that unemployment records are official records, so they are not accurate, not because we have written in law that we will simply delete some unemployed and will no longer record them. I think it's discriminatory and, of course, it can't be, it's misleading and it's not real and accurate data. Well, that should be noted, too. On the other hand, it identifies work in public authorities. In this case, the number of cases has increased by almost a third, yes, you all hope, the workers in the state authorities all hope to say something and protest some irregularities. Of course, private and corporate workers do not hope to do so. How will they hope if two or three months or wages are not yet paid, let alone transport the job, etc.!? So, more problematic things to deal with and, of course, it would be good for the Ombudsman to deal more with segmental and, of course, those that are really big problems. Well, I know you got it, but in pension-disability insurance I didn't find anywhere inside the insurance case of farmers, because of course this gentleman, Sadjar Šilec, was also a few times with me, from Vitomarc, and where he made it clear that there were paying those 10 degrees in the 72 years, that then it came to the fact that, I don't know, one year they had to stop it and it was said so that I would mention it once again that we came to the meeting in Maribor, and it was then the director of the institution, Mr. Malešič said: "Dear delegates! I have to tell you that the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th levels of the scale are falling. It's where the balloons are secured." Well, the end of this story is when he retires, he gets 24,000 pensions. In 1993. Today, if I'm not mistaken, I think it's 39 grand. Just as it was in 1993, so it is probably still true today, as this Mr. Šilec wrote in his letter: "I would not like to write the following words, but I must. I think that the sum, which the farmer receives as a pension, as received by Slovenian farmers, is not enough for the maintenance and food of the city dog." I'm afraid that's true. But there was nothing written about it either. If I move forward, the exercise of disability insurance rights. Of course, if you are dealing with such problems, then there are also many and many experiences, and I have many complaints, including in the parliamentary group, about the work of the disability commissions. Some of the specialists' doctors say he's incompetent for this, like, third, coming to the disability committee, not just in the hallway, but about as much as in the hallway. In fact, he's coming to the disability committee. Four doctors, gentlemen sitting at the table. They say to him, take off your clothes, or take off your clothes, at least three or five meters away, turn around about yours, so much as they do not yet say to him, donkey axes, and then put on your clothes, and go. Behind that comes a message capable of raising 300 tons at the end. I mean, absurd! Absurd! And, of course, an area that you'll have to go a little bit more seriously next year. Well, if I end up with poverty and social hardship. Here you wrote: "Let us assume that society should not put on the brink of the survival of people who have spent almost all their working time investing their energy to the maximum in work and often also in the development of work organisations, and so on and so on". In the end, of course, neither for survival nor for health care, in short, nor did anyone hire them anymore. These things could also be handled differently by those funds that are in the state budget, I am sure, good enough, but, of course, in a different way, through local communities, which are the only guarantee from the 94th to the present, for all that they had the authority to do from one at least five times the toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr Brejc withdrew into his privacy and I would like to explain to him the decision taken by the Committee on Privacy, which discusses the protection of privacy in applications when it comes to reporting in police procedures on violence, in particular violence against women. The decision has been defined as banal or unnecessary, inappropriate. It is appropriate to clarify that the need for this decision, not only was identified by the committee, but also by the Ombudsman himself, who defined it in his report, has been reinforced, but also by the definition of literary, not anecdotal, but literary, authentic, realistic, individual indications. What problems confront those women when they decide on big, certainly big problems, personal problems, that violence will also be reported in their respective places. The inadequacy of the procedure itself at police stations is evident in cases cited by the Ombudsman and known to us by ourselves, either from witnessing in other places, in such a way that people who, as I have already said, have major problems in deciding on this step, which is intimately very problematic or related to certain unpleasant feelings of shame, while also traumatising the situation, the consequence of this traumatised situation, which is not always possible, but mostly do not have the opportunity to trust this problem in a private or slightly more protected situation, since police stations are regularly equipped with separate rooms where the public could be excluded from this testimony. It also happens a number of times, as we read in the report, that the parties who would otherwise report a violent act or their position as a victim would also identify, change their minds in the process itself and not continue with it. In this regard, the 24th decision also refers to a record which in many cases is not made known to the victim and cannot be invoked later. Talks about inappropriate equipment in the offices of some police units, when they hang inappropriate photographs in them, sometimes constitute a handicap for the victim himself. And after, I remind you, not an anecdotal, but a religious confession to which we are witnessing in the report shows that such photographs, which are located in inappropriate places, can also affect the testimony and that testimony, which is directly and intimately linked to the personal experience itself. This is the case when the victim was confronted, in fact, reanimating the domestic situation in the way she was facing an inappropriate situation at the police station itself. In this respect, this decision has been adopted and I think it is more than meaningful because it can warn that the situation is changing. After all, observing and warning is what I think is fundamental, I will say, the mission of the Ombudsman, who can thus ensure that the value of life in our society is not lost, in the sense that one is less equal than the other, that one is more lenient than the other. In my intervention, however, I also wanted to draw attention to another comparison, comparing the reading of the Ombudsman's report 2002 with the European Commission's report on combating racism and intolerance. This is the second report on Slovenia, which we heard about yesterday when we discussed the issue deleted on this site. However, this Strasbourg report clearly expresses what we sometimes like to keep quiet if we can see at all. Indeed, it is a claim from a report that I absolutely agree that prejudice and intolerance still prevail among the Slovenian population. The general attitude of Slovenians towards foreigners or marginal, border or minority groups, says the report, is acceptable only until the moment they do not live in their vicinity. This is said to be accepted in principle, until they are among us, whether they are drug addicts or Roma, refugees, asylum seekers, Africans, whether they are waste or they are, say, deleted. In the context of the European Commission's report on the fight against racism, there are also solutions, as is also found in the Ombudsman's report, by noting that it is possible for the Ombudsman to have as explicitly stated under the questions of intolerance because it is simply a matter of selectivity in the applications themselves, which are then subject to the processing of the Ombudsman. Well, the Commission itself and partly in some places also the Ombudsman brings solutions to how this intolerance should be reduced. And among these solutions, there is even a hint to elevate learning plans that would introduce greater sensitivity of Slovenians to immigrants, to the immigration of foreigners, and to cultural diversity. By referring to civic education and ethics, to social education as an elective subject and so on. When we met yesterday and today in this national assembly with a lot of sensitive issues, we have repeatedly touched on this intolerance. She was also explicitly spoken on several occasions. And it would undoubtedly be worth noting that tolerance from this city, from the National Assembly, would certainly be and caution in understanding would be more necessary. Here, after all, that we cannot deny it, especially when we are talking about the Roma community, which is also dealt with to a large extent by the Ombudsman, we are witnessing an already introduced law on the Roma community, which we are going to meet and which actually violates the constitutional principle, including the principle of Article 65 of the Constitution, when it explicitly states that members and members of the Roma community living in the Republic of Slovenia do not have special rights and special positions. In this context, I am convinced that there will be quite a few cases of explicit intolerance in the 2003 report, and recently, in particular those that occurred in Novémmet, when also the visible representatives of the Slovenian Parliament were actually involved in the debate, which literally referred to intolerance when they discussed how we can protect citizens against Roma. In view of the fear of the mass arrival of the Roma and the belief that the way of life of the Roma of Slovenia and Slovenia will already cause a massive disease of cancer, that dependence on material gains by the State causes personality changes and that it is a property given to the Roma, which is laziness, visas of course fair and working roles of the Slovenes, the visas of the Roma, which they addressed with the Gypsies. It even went so far as to propose measures that people for greater security would arm themselves, that local authorities should also suggest that Roma should be banned from private property, because only these entities or gypsies do not know and know what they value. I just wanted to point out with a few examples that intolerance is certainly one of the major problems in Slovenia, and it has been in the case of minorities, and it has been particularly expressed, and I stress that even in the circles where the last one could be. As long as I'm allowed time? We don't allow time then another time. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Keeper, Mr. Minister, other guests and colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Keeper, it's good to see you after one year. But it's not so good to read your report. It's more or less what it used to be. Not much progress, but I'm not going to talk about it, because I'm just going to stay on the report that Alvora Gil-Robles sent in and there's a lot of talk about what was done and what wasn't. But I'm going to try to mention some other things that you and he didn't notice. Well, first of all, I congratulate you for being able to come to this National Assembly, because the Attorney General did not have this opportunity, because the Internal Policy Committee has decided that what this report will be considered, they have accepted it as satisfactory, and so we are deprived of asking the lady, but you are always welcome. Well, if I understand you correctly, from your writing and so on, you're also trying to raise the level of your research a little bit, and responsibilities and so on. But I'm going to ask you a very simple question for starters. What do you think the rights of the dead are for violating their rights of dignity? Please answer that question for me once. Okay, well, I'm gonna get into some things that aren't in your report, and both of the guards were deaf, blind, and neither are they for these things. Well, let's say the issue of corruption. And conflicts of interest. Where are these mentioned? Have you ever noticed that something like this is possible? After ten years of rule, our government has now drawn up one law that is toothless, and of course it only sets up advisory committees. Then I'll ask you this. The Anti-Corruption Office was appointed to the Office of the President of the State. What do you think? What do you think? Isn't that corruption in itself? Let's go to the financial area. Have you ever gone into these things? And why not? Have you ever asked who our government is doing in the workforce? Why is it possible to know that all the ambassadors are, that all your ministers are, that everyone, whatever matters, is in one uniform and the other cannot come along. Of course, my colleagues will say yes, but that's absolutely true. But I'd like to see some cases. I once offered a bottle of champagne to have someone like that bring me one of these, but I wasn't lucky. And that's very important because this is where you take the rights of young people who aren't in uniform. And we'll follow that, if not here, and somewhere else. Have you ever heard of the concept of ideological terrorism? Probably not, but you will now. In fact, ideological terrorism is what our government does: it stands on these rights of revolution, on one truth and so on and so forth. You have nothing to say about this, and you know that more than - I will not say any more, but half of the Slovenian people do not believe in these things. But he has to believe if he wants to have a job and so on. Mr. Keeper, you are in a very solid area, a safe area, there is no delicate thing that could harm you, and this has also been true for Mr. Bisak before, but you do not hope to go or you do not know or see, however. But it's sad that it does. Say, no words in your emergency report. Do you know what it is? Do you know that the government says that with this graves law, which is shameless, false, we will find reconciliation easier? Yeah, who's "painting" who, please? Have you noticed this law? Well, if you haven't, you still can. I'd like you to go to a slightly higher level of your responsibilities and go after them. It is not that we constantly listen to the same things every year, although they are important, but some are marginal and you do not have time for the Slovenes. Here many people have been talking about it all the time, about erased, about this and that. What about those 10,000 exterminated people that were buried today? I asked you that once before, and I never got an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Last year, the Ombudsman murmured that there was no interest among Members in his report. I would now ask him if he had ever wondered whether they were in violation of a Member of fundamental democratic rights so that he could debate in the National Assembly. Everyone can't discuss it because it's just this bureaucracy, this machine doesn't allow it. Have you ever asked yourself whether to ensure that Members of Parliament have the democratic right to discuss such an important document as you are presenting yourself? You're not. That'd be right. And I would also ask you not to ignore me during my speech and not to bite your nails and scratch, but to listen as you should.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u196	Mr Kelemina, the first thing you have addressed to the Ombudsman is not his problem, the matter of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the matter of knowing the possibility of working also within the framework of a non-member working body, and you have the right to discuss this point for ten hours as a member of this National Assembly. And the Ombudsman's observation of how he behaves between us is completely inadequate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u197	But I don't think it's appropriate for someone to ignore me because I think they're deliberately ignoring me. And I also feel insulted if someone almost there does some makeup when I speak. That's also ignorant, isn't it? Don't you think? So it's all my fault, because I signed up for the word, and everyone else is not guilty of anything. Thank you very much! This is your attitude towards every individual, as always. And you talk for hours about tolerance and I don't know what else, but you say the word tolerance a hundred times, yes, but now you have to become impatient when you always listen only to the word patience, patience, patience. [[...]] Stop using those words, and there will be tolerance in this country. All you do is provoke it, produce it indefinitely. Mr Hanžek, too, instead of dealing with such important things that are critical in this country, he is, of course, engaged in the political discredit of some people and is talking about intolerance indefinitely. This is not a fundamental function of the Ombudsman, I think. Now, they also say that people don't turn around much anymore, that there are fewer of these roles, because people have given up, and who else believes in this country. You think he's the Ombudsman? No, no, no, no. Ask the people. Trust in state institutions has completely waned a long time ago. People will obviously have to take their rights into their own hands, or they won't get to them. I would just like to say that, according to my assessment, human rights are only a product of the modern capitalist world, which has found that the people in question can no longer cope with force, but with the immeasurable liberalisation of rights that are not necessary to be realized, this is definitely, and with other rights of perversion and corruption, which are, of course, infinitely and immeasurably enough. There is no need in the world to spread any other values than the values of humanity and reality, including honesty and justice. There will be only three, and there will be a harmony in the world that is no bigger. We know exactly what falls under the value of humanity, we know what humanity is. And, you don't have to do that, and every kid, we can teach him in kindergarten, we don't have to do that. So is reality and honesty. Unfortunately, with your normative system in this country, you have disrupted all meanings of reality and honesty. Just look at the courts, in court, if you're not lying, you can never win. Truth in a court of law can no longer be won. This is the sacred truth of this modern world. And if you want to get a lawyer and you come to court and you want to get justice with the truth, the lawyer tells you himself if we don't build a structure, if we don't lie properly, we can't win. Ask yourself why this has happened in this world and in this loving country. Ask yourself that. Of course you're not interested, you're not interested in the background, you're a regime man, it's all foreign to you. That I will not impose unnecessary, even just, of course, what righteousness means is known. If we are righteous, we do not need a million other expressions, but every child knows what is righteous. We can teach every child this. And if we took that into account, I'm pretty sure there would be such harmony in this world that it's not bigger. However, you have overtaken basic values, written thousands, thousands of new rights that simply cannot be realized and are not necessary because the path to these rights is endless. In short, in this report, which is so much the same as everything else, I would like, of course, to keep or keep having fun with these matters. I say lucky the guardian has good associates, otherwise I don't know what this report would be. However, the price paid by citizens for this report is too high. First we pay the civil servants, this authority to write the laws first, give the rights, then break them, then come back to this authority and ask for mercy before this authority. All of this is unnecessary, all of this would have to be done in accordance with these principles of humanity, reality and justice, all of it. But we will experience the dark. Dear people, I apologize, and it is not in my power to achieve this. You'll have to write your own judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Wolf, no, Zupan, Jerovšek is not here. I pray for peace in the hall. Mr. Tuckyat, you have nine seconds available. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You don't want a word, thank you very much. I give the floor as much as I wish, first to the representative of the government and then finally to the Ombudsman. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u199	Madam Vice President! Dear Members and Members! You will understand that in this final contribution, I will not touch on all the issues mentioned by the government or individual ministries, as the debate was extensive, rich and that is why answering this question would not be too long. In my opinion, I think the government has in fact provided sufficient reliable information on how it responds to the problems that the Ombudsman is alerting, how it is addressing those tasks that arise from these problems and what things have actually been done and how they will still be. For this reason, I would like to point out in particular that, despite the fact that the resolution of some of the problems goes much further than we would like, I do reject the allegations of the government's failure to respond, the fact that the government is carefree of the reports, that it is a matter of ignorance and some similar judgments that have been made in this debate. I think that an objective reader of the government's opinion on the Ombudsman's 2002 report shows, however, that the government is responsive to take seriously the problems of citizens, which the Ombudsman then reports. To see this in part from the consideration of individual cases, where many find that the problem in the Ombudsman's hearing has already been resolved, to see this also from a response to the other subject where there are systemic problems and where there is only one, I say again, sometimes it is true that after too long of time to an appropriate solution that brings the problem out of the agenda. In this respect, it is also not possible to fully agree to the claims that problems occur year after year. Some, in particular those who are more connected to the functioning of individual national authorities, have been responding for too long, but on the other hand, we can see that there are also proposals for the adoption or amendment of certain laws and that this response is appropriate. As an example in this area, I should mention the adoption of a law on access to information of a public nature, since this issue was mentioned here in this debate. In order for this law to be adopted, it was basically the Ombudsman's idea and initiative, a little while ago, so I remember it well. However, this law is now adopted and also allows Members, and of course also all other citizens, to obtain all those information of a public nature, and this information is largely or more exceptional to those who do not fall within this framework. That's why I think this case can show that things can only be arranged. I would even argue that they can be arranged sometimes in a relatively short period of time; I could also list some cases from a bit back, such as the introduction of a maintenance fund and so on. However, there is also a welcome warning, including a warning from the watchman. Once again, I guarantee that the government takes such warnings seriously, and the same applies to individual ministries. It was mentioned that the government and the guardian cooperated well or that this was more than the Ombudsman’s point of view. Without wanting to be a guardian's lawyer, I must stress, however, that good cooperation is a prerequisite for solving problems. And I don't think it's appropriate for anyone to look down on that. You can believe that I know quite well the functioning of such institutions in other countries to which some refer, and that the cooperation in which the government responds is what is good in this relationship. Because if the guardian comes into conflict with the government or vice versa, if the government responds to the Ombudsman’s recommendations with an aphront, with controversy, with rejection, then we can all be confident that there will be no effect that problems will not be resolved. That is why I think we will continue to take care of good relations in the government, but in particular in the way that we will respond to inquiries, both on proposals, recommendations and on the annual reports with which the Ombudsman suspects his work. Finally, allow me to respond fully to Mr Drobnik's proposal for the correction of injustices. In the Ministry of Justice, we have employed as many people in the government commission for the correction of injustices as possible, to the extent possible, to relocate them from other areas, so as not to endanger the execution of other tasks. In a short time, we have increased the weekly number of cases that come in ready to be dealt with by the committee by 150%. Even in advance, although the government's direction is down to 1% employment in the coming year, we will, in the context of the possibility, ensure that all those who can be burdened by the second part will cooperate in the completion of the processing of applications in this area. Only as an example, and because he was just with an appeal to me mentioned, but also the answer to this question. Otherwise, honourable Members and honourable Members, I am sure that this debate today will not be without reflection on individual ministries and on the government as a whole in the regular report of the Ombudsman for 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you very much. And to conclude with the word, I invite the distinguished Lord of the Guardian. Mr. Hanzek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much to all of you who have come forward, both with the criticisms that we're going to try to catch in our work and correct what we're going to find we've been doing wrong. Above all, I would, and you probably also understand that the four and half debates are very difficult to narrow down so that I can answer all the questions. But I'm going to try to answer something, say random, and I'm not going to say they're the most important. First of all, I would protest Mr Drobnič's populist statement that the Ombudsman is not saving money because wages have increased by 30%. This year is compared to the year my predecessor went on. It took five, six, seven people, and it took us a year to complete the vacant cities, and the National Assembly also allowed three new employees for children's rights. They probably won't work for free. We only hired two people, just to save money. And I'm asking you for another time to make sure we're done first. When I walk across Europe, I meet your fellow Members at the airports, who ride with "business class," we all ride with a tourist "class". We've sold a Mercedes to finance children's rights. In the first year, we returned 13 million to the state budget because we were unable to use them rationally. They all said, "Idiots, the state administration is doing this, we have 13 million by the end of the year, let's spend them." No, we brought them back. And that was the cost reduction. But then, when we hired new people, of course, it increased by 30%, and I ask you to make sure the second time before you accuse yourself here in this assembly of something that is not entirely true. Secondly, I would ask a number of Members to at least take a closer look at the law on the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman, as much as I would like to, is sometimes very bad for us, we cannot intercede in the private sphere. Secondly, the Ombudsman is established as a classical ombudsman who deals primarily with individual complaints. We do much more than classical ombudsmen do, which thank God to those who have written Slovenian law and also to the National Assembly, which has adopted such a law, we can do more, and this is what my colleagues from abroad say that we are doing much more when we are interfering with areas that classical ombudsmen do not do. Perhaps my predecessor, Bizjak, who is extremely well acquainted with other guardians or other ombudsmen, would know and rarely who we are complaining about in such a conflict with the government, a conflict in connotations. Perhaps not to boast, but the Ambassador of the European Union confirmed this one week ago when we had an international conference. The Slovenian Ombudsman has a reputation in the world because he is critical of the government and so on. As far as I'm concerned, I would like to continue what the minister said - an obvious good cooperation between the government. If I were an emissary who went to the elections next year, I'd go through and through the government like I wanted. Great, and I'd get 10 percent of the votes next year. The result would be total blockage on the other side. We wouldn't have solved anything. Me and my fellow deputies here, we're trying to solve as many problems as possible. That's why we have to be tactical. Determined limits to press to a certain limit to cooperate. And this cooperation is all the time to try and solve things all the time. We can't save a lot of them, unfortunately, a lot of them aren't even viable, but the obvious, because we're working with the government, it's bad for the ombudsman, sorry, then we live in different worlds. In particular, I will try to do my work as properly as possible, of course to all, including Members, allow, and even wish, criticisms, but I will also respond to these criticisms. First of all, I would like to make sure that statements are made because there is no problem in speaking like that without someone jumping into your mouth. And I have to tell you, every branch is looking at me and my colleagues, which we say. And that's what I'd like to ask you to let me also let me bite my nails, because they're mine. But when I talk to someone, I have deputies to explain things to me, because believe me, 3,000 cases a year I can't carry in my head, and if they tell me in the meantime, they tell me that I know things better, but not that I'm hurting someone. With me and the deputies sitting here for four and a half hours and listening, I think that's enough evidence to respect each of the Members here, and also those who don't sit for four and a half hours in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Guardian. Procedural proposal, Mr. Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Of course, I have asked the Ombudsman in his debate on answers, not on specific or individual problems, but on two general problems which are problems, I think, today's Slovenian societies in some segment, and are tanning a wide range of people, are of general nature and are tanning legislation. I believe, and it is good that the Ombudsman works well with the government, because then we can also solve problems. That's why I asked him to try, in cooperation with the government, if he has such good relations, and I don't doubt his words, and I believe, so I also took this opportunity and laid these two cases on him, only with the desire to try to solve them together. Perhaps the problems are solved by changes in legislation or otherwise. And I would only procedurally ask the guardian to tell me here whether he will answer me and these people or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Keeper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u205	I'm sorry if you think my words flew at you. No, no, no. I explained, we do a lot of work where we really don't have jurisdiction. We're trying to influence, we're asking, by realizing that the other side, let's say the private sphere can say, "I don't care, you don't have the authority." But I know it's not, and all these things we're also happy to do, and we're going to do it. However, there is something I must warn you - unfortunately Mr Zampernik is not here - because we must respect the law that says that everything is done on the basis of a confidential nature - we need the authority of people. Otherwise, we can only inform them, but we must not inform you, whether you are Members. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal - I apologize - I hope that this time will not be misused as is the Procedural proposal by Mr Vizjak. [[...]] This was not a procedural proposal. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u207	I propose, Madam President, that you set the right time and that the Ombudsman answer the many questions raised. After all, questions were asked to him, and he should answer questions. They talk about some purely marginal matters, but he did not answer what we asked you or what his colleagues asked him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Sok! The Ombudsman has received the floor, he has responded as he has decided, and I ask you kindly not to exert pressure here. Mr. Keeper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u209	I'll take that 20 minutes. I'll go in line if you ask for just a little water. [[...]] [[Explanation of the President.]] Huh, just three minutes. [[...]] Mr Drobnic said and we are all at the office involved in the same problems as he sees - to the rights of separated parents. As long as we have to, we're working on it. We can't work instead of centers, instead of courts. We're warning and we're doing a lot of work. By re-emphasizing the different aspect of human rights that the Ombudsman has in other institutions. Mr Petty Officer said that the rights of a parent who doesn't see a child have been violated. I believe so, but we make them from a different angle. In particular, children’s right to both parents is violated, and we also see it this way. I'm going in line, just like I have on my sheets. Mr. Marshich. I agree that it is not this analysis, but such an analysis is either a matter of the Nationality Office or an institution that we discussed earlier dealing with the issue of discrimination, etc. I believe I know this problem, and I also link it, say, comparatively now with the decline of the Slovenian in Austria and so on. But this is - and also a number of others who have talked about the issue of discrimination - you should have someone independent, not governmental or stately, as has been said, an institution that deals primarily with it. We are doing as much as we can because we are neither human resources nor strong enough because we are different species, including the national institution. This could be said: several times there has been talk of an increase, of a reduced decline in complaints. I have never associated an increase or number of complaints with a violation or non-infringement [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Yeah, now I have to stop - human rights, because for someone to complain, there are a number of reasons. I have to go. However, you will receive a written answer to all these questions in good faith.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I thank you very much for your cooperation, Your Honor, the Ombudsman and the Deputy. Likewise, thank you to the representative of the government, to the Minister of the Interior - the Minister of Justice, I apologize. The amendment and the proposal for a recommendation will be voted on in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 9.45 a.m. This concludes this agenda item and will continue at 19.35 p.m. with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u211	We're at 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY, at the last item on the agenda of the day before the vote, which will begin after 2100 hours. We are in the report on the Court of Auditors' case in the summer of 2002. The report was submitted to the National Assembly by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll give my word to the President of the Court of Auditors first, if that's what he wants. Can I help you? Please, you have the opportunity to further explain, and behind you is a colleague of Dr. Bajuk, President of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u212	Mr. President, the House of Honor! The work of the Court of Auditors is to disclose how others work. However, in our annual report, we do not only reveal how others work, but especially how we work in the Court of Auditors. As others do, we disclose in individual audit reports, and we also submit each to the National Assembly. The annual report presents only the main audits and summarises the basic audit findings. For the most part, we can summarize them by saying what audit opinions we have given in individual audit cases. In the report we have presented to you, a special section is devoted to this. In this brief review, it is sufficient to say that in only 18% of the audit cases we have confirmed the correctness of business. In other words, in only 18% of the audit cases we gave a positive opinion on the regularity of business. In 33% of the audit cases we gave a negative or negative opinion on the regularity of business. This means that the operation of 33% of the audited users of public funds was in significant non-compliance with the rules. One of the reasons for irregularities in the operation of public funds users is certainly internal controls, which are intended to detect and prevent irregularities in a timely manner. Internal control of public funds users is not effective enough and internal audit services are only emerging. As I said at the outset, in the annual report, we are not just talking about the business of others, but especially about our own business. Our annual report should show whether we are dealing with the right audit issues in the right way. If we deal with the right audit issues, we are successful if we deal with them in the right way, we are effective. Let us therefore first look at the audit issues we dealt with last year. The main part of the available audit time has been dedicated to meeting the audit obligations as best as possible. I refer to the audits imposed on the Court of Auditors by the laws by the terms of the audit obligation. Our greatest audit obligation is to revise the accounts and implement the state budget. Last year, of course, we revised the accounts and implementation of the 2001 state budget. We have reviewed the operations of all fourteen ministries and three other direct budget users. Their operations have been divided into three segments, for each segment of the operations of the revised budget user, this is for 71 segments of the implementation of the state budget, and for the state budget as a whole we have assessed the level of irregularity. The estimated levels of irregularity were taken into account in the statements of five positive opinions, six with reservations and seven negative opinions on the correctness of the implementation of the 2001 State budget. There is also a negative opinion on the correctness of the implementation of the State budget as a whole. The audit opinions were based on the audit evidence obtained from the tests of approximately four thousand five hundred payments made from the 2001 State budget. We spent 1911 audit days to carry out the audit. In addition to the audit of the accounts and the implementation of the State budget, the following audits are included in the statutory audits: the revision of the regularity of the operation of the health insurance institution; the revision of the regularity of the operation of the pension and disability insurance institution; the revision of the regularity of the business of the Slovenian Development Society; several audits that you, Members or Labour Bodies of the National Assembly, audits of the operations of the selected economic service providers; audits of the operations of selected operators of non-economic public services; and reviews of the annual reports of political parties and after each national election of the audit of the reports of the organisers of the electoral campaigns. At the end of 2002, we therefore had to devote part of the available audit time; we also had to revise the reports of election campaign organisers for presidential candidates. From the data shown in our annual report, it is clear that we spent 76% of the audit time available last year to meet our audit obligations. Therefore, 24% of the available audit time has been spent on all other audits, which can be called optional audits. In addition to some regularity audits, we also include all audits of the soundness of the operations of the users of public funds. In view of the fact that in 2002 the Court of Auditors has committed up to 76% of the audit time available, I believe that it can be estimated that the Court of Auditors dealt mainly with the correct audit issues in 2002. Now let us take a moment to see if they were dealt with in the right way. Let us therefore see if it has carried out audits in a sufficiently efficient manner. An average number of calendar days from the introduction of the audit to the issuance of the audit report may serve as an indicator of the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. If the efficiency of the Court of Auditors is measured by this indicator, it turns out that efficiency has been increased in recent years, as is evident from the data presented in the annual report submitted. However, the best performance indicators of the Supreme Audit Institution are indicators which take into account the number of audit days spent in carrying out an audit. The efficiency of the Court of Auditors, measured by the number of audit days spent on individual types of audits, is increasing from year to year but has not yet reached a satisfactory level. In particular, the number of audit days spent in a variety of cases is too high for standard audits of the regularity of business. In order to increase the efficiency of the Court of Auditors, I believe that, inter alia, the proper management of audit departments will need to be supported by the revision of the IT system, such as the "time made" system used by economic audit companies, and that the audit methods and the existing audit knowledge will be improved by taking much more account of risk assessments when determining and implementing audits. Complementing audit methods is the main objective of the Court’s development efforts. We have identified the main development efforts in the new "twinning" one-year project, which we reported to the European Commission last year. The project was approved for us at the end of February next year. It consists of four components which represent four areas of development of the Court's efforts. Each component is implemented in cooperation with one of the distinguished audit institutions of the European Union. The components of the project are: setting up a model to revise reports on the objectives achieved and the results of direct budgetary users, complementing the methods for auditing the operations of municipalities, which should enable the Court of Auditors to define a new audit strategy in this area, revise the transfer revenue from the European Union budget and detect fraud and corruption. The first component of the project shall be implemented in cooperation with the Supreme Audit Institute of Great Britain, the second component in cooperation with the Audit Commission of Great Britain, the third component in cooperation with the Danish Supreme Audit Institute and the fourth component in cooperation with the Court of Auditors of Spain. The educational efforts of the Court of Auditors are also very important as the development of efforts. We are trying to achieve the highest possible degree of professionalisation in the exercise of the audit powers of the Court of Auditors. So last year we put together an educational programme to obtain the name of the State Auditor and the name of the tried-out State Auditor. These are the names under the law on the Court of Auditors. We are already implementing a programme to obtain these titles. The capacity of the Court of Auditors to carry out the tasks of the Supreme Audit Institute has been assessed several times by the European Commission when, in reviewing Slovenia's readiness to join the European Union, it assessed financial supervision in Slovenia. The European Commission's 2002 regular report on Slovenia's progress in integration into the European Union estimates that the proper functioning of the State audit is ensured in Slovenia. Compared to most of the Western European Supreme Audit Institutions that have a centuries-old tradition, our Court of Auditors is still a very young supreme audit institution. Even among the supreme audit institutions of the acceding countries, our Court of Auditors is the youngest; in other acceding countries, the supreme audit institutions celebrated their decade of operation years ago. And at the beginning of next year, we will be celebrating only a nine-year-old. Despite its youth, our Court of Auditors in the European professional environment has a prominent status and professional reputation. When we compare our Court of Auditors with the Supreme Audit Institutions in other acceding countries, we do not only find that it is the youngest, but also that it is the smallest. Even in Cyprus, they have several more employees in their supreme audit institution. At the end of 2002, we had 106 employees in our Court of Auditors. Among them were 61 auditors and 6 consultants, who are also involved in the audit. The question is, how big is the size of the Court of Auditors? It is unnecessary to explain that the number of audits carried out depends on the number of auditors for the given efficiency of the audit work. On the basis of the information provided in the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances raises the question whether the frequency of audit of individual users of budgetary resources and other public funds at national and local level is appropriate. This is a very important question. So far, the National Assembly has not explicitly addressed it. However, it can be said that it has been dealt with indirectly every time it has administered the budget to the Court of Auditors, but at the time of no consideration of the budget for the Court of Auditors, it has not been determined how much the target size or target audit capacity of the Court of Auditors should be. In determining the latest budgets for the Court of Auditors, it appeared that the assessment that the size of the Court reached was sufficient was predominant. In assessing the size of the Court of Auditors sufficient, account should be taken of the effectiveness and effectiveness of internal controls and the development of internal audit services. The better internal control, the less external control is needed. Of course, this does not mean that internal control can fully replace external control. External control is also needed for excellent internal control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much, President of the Court of Auditors. The report was addressed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. The President of the Commission, Dr Andrej Bajuk, will present the Commission's report in five minutes and then we will move on to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Court of Auditors with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 26th meeting, on 2 July 2003, the Commission considered the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Court of Auditors pursuant to Article 5 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. After a long discussion, only two decisions were adopted. First, the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances took note of the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002 and proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider it and adopt it at one of its future meetings. That's what's gonna happen today. The second proposal is, however, a second conclusion; that the Commission on Budgetary Control and other public finances proposes to the National Assembly that, on the basis of data and information on the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002, it examines the appropriateness of the annual scope of audits carried out and assesses whether the frequency of revision of individual users of budgetary and other public funds at the national and local level is appropriate or not for the direct and indirect users of the State budget, municipalities, public, economic services, public institutions and other persons of public law. In addressing this issue, the National Assembly should also take into account the provision of the 63rd paragraph of the INTOSAI audit standards, which states, and quote: "It is necessary for the legislative authority to make sufficient resources available for the work of the Supreme Audit Institute, for which the Supreme Audit Institution is also obliged to deposit accounts, and to enable it to carry out its tasks and powers effectively." These are both decisions that have been adopted. Let me also mention, on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, we will have some problems precisely because of this. I think that this decision will be implemented in the sense that it will be addressed in this national assembly, which I have personally taken a very strong stand for. The fact is that the National Assembly, on the basis of these very standards, which are also in force in our country and are part of a positive law, is also part of our legislation and these principles require or recommend that each Parliament determine and influence the extent to which the work of the Supreme Audit Institute is being carried out. That's the key. Mr President also mentioned that for the first time, the National Assembly would discuss this publicly, that he might have had an implicit discussion when we were discussing the budget, but it is not only a matter of the budget, and I hope that this will also become clearer when we discuss these issues today. It is also a third decision, which has not been adopted, but which I will report as a representative of the Group of Members. So these two conclusions are presented to you here today. The first must be decided, and the second must, of course, be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u215	Just stay behind the speaker stage, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. You will present your Group's position. Well, let's clear one thing up. I have already told you that we cannot put a second decision to the vote because the appropriateness of the annual scope of the audits and the assessment, or the frequency of the audit, should be proposed by the Commission. This is how we will vote on the first decision. Please provide an overview of the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Following the consideration of the annual report on the work of the Court of Auditors for 2002, which we now have before us and the end of the nine-year term of office of this institution, a number of issues relating to the exercise of its mission should be raised. Therefore, we will only raise fundamental questions concerning the work of the Court of Auditors and the relationship between the Court of Auditors and the Commission, as we see it in the opposition. In three parts, by the way. For 2001 and 2002, the management of the Court of Auditors changed the reporting methodology for the audit findings of the audit of the final budget account. It shall report to the National Assembly on the revision of the accounts and the correctness of the implementation of the budget of the individual direct budgetary users only in one joint report. Since individual ministers and not just the government as a whole are responsible to the National Assembly, such reporting is not in accordance with our legal arrangements. Let me mention that Article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states: "the government consists of presidents and ministers." The Government and individual ministers shall, within their respective powers, be independent and accountable to the National Assembly. The Joint Audit Report is general and does not have the true utility of making public accounts or exercising the public responsibility of senior public officials, public servants and officials. The audit report on the final accounts of the countries is only slightly more than the audit report to, for example, a municipal company with 56 employees and 2 billion tolars of assets. Such reporting certainly does not lead to improvements in the transparency of the operations of the direct budgetary users of the state budget. Such reporting is also not in line with INTOSAI auditing standards. In one joint report, the Court of Auditors shall report together on the findings of both governmental and non-governmental budgetary users and various branches of government. It is true that each direct budgetary user of the national budget should devote a few separate pages, but all at the general level. In contrast, in our opinion, the response reports to the joint audit report of the ministries and other direct budgetary users correctly issue each for themselves. In the Commission's consideration of these response reports, it has also been shown so far that Members cannot understand what audit findings the response reports refer to at all. This can sometimes be understood only on the basis of additional oral explanations, which we sometimes get but sometimes not. The management of the Court of Auditors, in its annual report, tries to set an example to change the reporting methodology in other countries, such as the USA, as well as the internal audit of the European Commission. Unfortunately, according to our assessment, it's wrong. He says that in the United States they have a "single audit act" from which it is supposed to report several audits in one report. But apparently, the management of the Court of Auditors doesn't know what it really says in this law and what it does, so let me say. The Single Audit Act, adopted in the 1980s, introduced a uniform audit approach in the United States to revise the budgetary expenditure financed from the federal budget when federal financial assistance distributes to recipients in their countries through the budgets of various federal ministries and agencies. This does not mean, however, that their supreme audit institution GAO - or "General accounting office" - or the ministries that carry out the audit throughout the United States issue a single audit report for all recipients of funds. The single audit of "Single audit act" in the USA only refers to a single or joint audit of recipients of various federal aids. Prior to this law, several ministries had revised the recipients of various federal aids. In the United States, something else has been adopted in this Single Audit aAct, which is yet to be known, namely that every recipient of more than $25,000 is bound to the so-called single audit; up to $100,000 every two years and over this amount every year. The revision in the European Union or within the European Commission may also take place in an internal audit under the uniform method of auditing "field standards". However, we have an external audit to do in this case, so when the European Court of Auditors revises the use of European funds in Slovenia, it will certainly issue an audit report to our auditor and not only include it in a joint report at the level of the European Union, for example, for the use of Structural Funds. The methodology of reporting on audit findings selected by the Court of Auditors for 2001 and reiterated for the 2002 accounts actually means that we do not need a working body in the Slovenian Parliament dealing with budgetary control and other public spending. In addition, in view of the fact that, following the current Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no decision can be proposed in the consideration of the final accounts by the Commission for the control of the budget, the conditions to terminate the Commission are in fact met. Let me draw attention to the fact that the working bodies for budgetary control are the oldest of all in traditional democracies. It is a problem that so far the Slovenian Parliament has no interest in the provisions of the INTOSAI International Audit Standards set up by the United Nations and are actually part of our legal order in accordance with the law on the Court of Auditors. I therefore need to point out to the National Assembly what at least some INTOSAI audit standards set. Article 56: "The legislative authority is one of the main users of the services of the Supreme Audit Institutions." The Supreme Audit Institutions shall be given their powers under the Constitution or legislation itself, and their often characteristic function shall be to report to the legislative authorities. We can expect the Supreme Audit Institution to work closely with the legislative authority, including all the committees authorised to examine the reports of the Supreme Audit Institute. This linkage can greatly contribute to the successful follow-up of the work of the Supreme Audit Institute. Article 57: "The important results of the audits of the implementation of the State budget and administration and of disputes and disagreements with the audited units should be made known to the legislative authority in the form of reports or specific notifications." Article 58: "The special committees designated by the legislative authority shall be empowered to examine the reasons in the reports and specific notifications of the Supreme Audit Institute in the presence of ministers, delegates from the audited services and other representatives. The close link between the legislative body and the supreme audit institution can also be used for budgetary enquiries and for professional assistance in the work of the parliamentary committees responsible for investigating the draft budget." Article 62, and this is key: "It is appropriate for the legislative authority to set minimum reporting requirements, including matters on which an audit opinion is to be given and the appropriate deadline for the submission of a report." Nevertheless, flexibility in reporting to the Supreme Audit Authority without restrictions on the content or time limits of the reports may only support the maintenance of independence. It is necessary for the legislative authority to make sufficient resources available for the work of the Supreme Audit Institute - and this is Article 63 - for which the Supreme Audit Institution is also obliged to deposit accounts and to enable it to carry out its tasks and powers effectively. The debate at the 18th session of the Commission last year showed that the Slovenian Supreme Institute was not prepared to follow the direction of INTOSAI, which it said - exactly the one I last quoted: "It is appropriate for the legislative authority to set minimum reporting requirements, including matters on which an audit opinion should be given." The management of the Court of Auditors said at that meeting that it did not consider the Commission of the National Assembly as the primary user of the audit reports. The first Deputy, Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat, stated and also quoted from the magnetogram on the question of whether to report audit findings in ministries or direct users: "I think this is a sufficient report for Parliament. President Antončič said that the chosen new model of reporting on audit findings is, I quote, more public at the same time." The question is how the Commissioners should examine the reasons for the audit findings in the report and what should we propose to the responsible minister in the event of general audit findings. Members of the opposition expect the Court of Auditors, when it finds out in the revision of irregularities, also to report them with a statement of data or information concerning types of materially significant irregularities by reference to specific provisions of the law and other rules which have been breached; the persons or business partners who have participated or have been involved in the business of irregularities. Let me mention, by the way, that when the Court of Auditors today states that they have violated the Public Procurement Act in the Ministry, it will silence the names of the tenderers who have benefited from the breach of such rules. The question is, why? Is it even possible for us to eliminate corruption? Does the Court of Auditors, with such reporting, really contribute to its abolition? And what else do we expect? We expect that the reporting of the responsible persons of the direct budgetary user will also be for the implementation of the budgetary programmes and tasks in which irregularities have been identified. Do you think it appropriate, fellow Members of the State Council, that we be able to learn about the names of those involved in illegal transactions when it comes to finding violations of public procurement rules with indirect budgetary users or other persons of public law, but not if, for example, the law on public procurement violates an individual ministry, government service or tax administration. Chapter two, the effectiveness of the work of the Court of Auditors or the State audit. The second issue to be raised in the course of the review of this report at the eight-year part of the Court of Auditors is the question of the effectiveness of the performance of its tasks, in terms of the number of persons examined in a given year or the question of the frequency of the audit of individuals under public law and in terms of the effectiveness of the resolution of irregularities in their prevention. In 2002, the Court of Auditors issued 47 final audit reports to individual auditors and one joint audit report for the audit of the final accounts of the State covering 17 direct budgetary users. This resulted in a total completion of the audit in 64 auditors. All auditors, please pay attention here, all auditors, direct and indirect budget users are in the country about 3000. However, this data does not yet cover all persons of public law who are competent to audit the Court of Auditors; for example, companies with a majority capital of the State, recipients of subsidies and so on. Without a specific calculation, it can be found that such planning and implementation of the work does not allow the Court of Auditors to achieve the integrity of its mission. The reasons for such a situation are, first of all, in the law on the Court of Auditors. In 2001, the law was drafted in the Court of Auditors alone and supported by the ruling coalition, with all attempts to define the frequency of public sector audits rejected. On the part of the Court of Auditors, it is sometimes heard that the State budget cannot finance a larger volume of State audit, but I should point out that these funds are not needed either, since, for example, the Bank of Slovenia charges the costs of the audit to any supervisory business bank. The supreme audit organisation in democratic Sweden also charges the audit, except for direct budgetary users. In the U.S. where "single audit act", the audit is also paid by the auditors themselves. Of course, the Court of Auditors cannot decide that. This is the subject of the law on the Court of Auditors. This must be decided by the National Assembly. When we talk about the efficiency of the work of the Court of Auditors with the current funding system, we cannot help but conclude that, according to the various experts, the scope of the work of the Court of Auditors is too small. In 2002, the Court of Auditors received over SIT 1.1 billion from the State budget - with 106 employees at the end of the year, of which 88 with at least university or higher education, 67 of whom are auditors - completed and completed the audit with 64 auditors. 47 plus 17. The total implementation started in 2002 with 98 audits. If the revenue of the Court of Auditors is converted into completed audits, one completed audit averaged 17.6 million tolars at its own full price. These data could be better assessed if they knew the number of audit days per audit. Court of Auditors on the 18th page of Rapporteur No 28/2003 states that in 2002 106 employees totalled 13,789 audit days, i.e. that they stood on an audit day at a full cost of almost 82,000 tolars. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly shall be that authority in the country which should grant to the Court of Auditors the appropriate size of the means of work and also know the criteria for the proper performance of the tasks. According to audit experts, the efficiency or productivity of the Court of Auditors is too low at the end of this term. The Court of Auditors also reports in this annual report that it improved its effectiveness in 2002. This must be recognised, measured by the average number of calendar days from the introduction of the audit to the issuance of the audit report. After this indicator, the average number of calendar days per audit was 15 days shorter than the year before, 213 days. With such an indicator productivity is difficult to measure and I do not think it is appropriate; but they only show some progress. In the opposition, we also have comments on the selection of auditors for the annual work programme of the Court of Auditors. It is unacceptable for us that the largest municipality in the country was partially inspected only after the outbreak of the SIB. The review was launched in mid-December 2002 and the audit report was issued in June 2003, and the audit was not covered by the financial year 2002 but only by 2001. Although, according to the audit standards, the audit for 2002 starts in the form of preliminary procedures or checks on the internal controls of the auditor prior to the establishment of the final account, which was in February 2003. It is really strange that in 2003 we should not know how the Municipality of Ljubljana operated in 2002 but only have to be satisfied with 2001. For 2001, the Court of Auditors issued a negative audit opinion to the Municipality of Ljubljana, which would require even more review of what was happening in the Municipality of Ljubljana in 2002. If we conclude: the frequency of audit of individual State audit debtors is too small. Firstly, due to the legal regime and, secondly, also due to the insufficient scope of the work, which is determined only by the Court of Auditors as a business secret. As a result, the trend of violations in the country is increasing, corruption is growing, there is no punishment for violations of the rules, but the epilogues of infringements reported by the Court of Auditors are unknown. On page 30 of the Report of the Rapporteur 28/2000, the Court of Auditors submitted three proposals in 2002 for the initiation of the infringement procedure and five for the reporting of offences. It should be noted to the State that due to the lack of frequency of the audit, the Court of Auditors does not give timely warning or warning of systemic irregularities at all. An example of this is the non-compliance with the Law on Economic Public Services, the Slovenian Accounting Standard 35 for Public Enterprise, the uncontrolled pricing of public services and so on and so on. The Court of Auditors did not appear with its initiatives to amend the laws, although it was also intended to be its mission. This is evidenced by a public presentation of opinions on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act that we had in this National Assembly last week. Finally, the third set, the independence of the Court of Auditors from the State. One of the most important issues to be raised today is certainly the independence of the Court of Auditors from the government. Let me illustrate the problem with just two cases and why. In the opposition, I think that's questionable. The Court of Auditors in its audit report on the final accounts of the State budget for 2002 predicts that, in its second mandate, we will proceed for the first time to revise the balance sheet or the balance sheet of the State. The opposition, however, has been alerting the entire mandate to the violation of the Constitution and the law on accounting by the government or finance ministers for more than ten years in this regard. Second case. The view and findings of irregularities on the part of the Court of Auditors are sometimes quite unusual. If you'll excuse me one more minute. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u217	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u218	One minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u219	You don't have any more time, but finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In the final accounts of the 2001 State budget, the budget deficit was shown with the help of accounting creations for at least 20 billion SITs too low, for which revenue was shown to be too high. And although the Court of Auditors pointed out this, it did not mention this for reasons of negative opinion, which in practice meant that it did not require the Government to correct it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u222	Mr President has commented on this warning as a nuisance. And let me finish, Mr. President, with only this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u223	You've been in over a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u224	The Court of Auditors operates on its websites under the heading "Let's Watch the Ways of Public Money." According to the opposition, this work does not yet lead us to proper economic and effective public spending. The situation in Slovenian public consumption is very critical. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u225	You've been in time for a minute and a half. Comrade Grošelj now has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by colleague Kelemin of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u226	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr President of the Court of Auditors, distinguished deputies, distinguished Secretary of State for Finance, well-welcome colleagues and colleagues. The President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Vojko Antončič, explains in his 2002 report on the work of the Court of Auditors in his opening statement that the annual report should show whether the Court of Auditors is dealing with the right audit issues in the right way. If it deals with the right audit issues, it is effective if it deals with them in the right way. On both thesis put forward in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we have attached and found that the Court of Auditors plays an increasingly important role in the control of public finances at both national and local levels following the adoption of the new law on the Court of Auditors in January 2001. A comparison with other European countries and the European Court of Justice was also drawn up at the time the new law was being examined. The comparison between the organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions was made on the basis of the material of the Supreme Audit Institute of Great Britain. 15 Supreme Audit Institutions in the countries of the European Union and the European Court of Justice are presented in the works. This review is extremely interesting in that it is still up-to-date, especially in the part of the conclusion, which I quote entirely: "The review has shown that the supreme audit institutions play an increasingly important role in overseeing the public finances of the Member States of the European Union. They operate in the environment of public spending management, try to ensure the success of business and gain the interest of politicians and voters in the correct and appropriate use of public funds. The work of the Supreme Audit Institutions cannot be generalised, as it is very different and difficult, but we can conclude that, although the ways of auditing and accounting vary from country to country, the Supreme Audit Institutions have a common objective - to help protect public funds and to provide an independent opinion on government spending. The ways of auditing have developed under the circumstances of individual Member States and therefore cannot be transferred to countries with very different useful structures, but individual Supreme Audit Institutions can learn much from each other and there is a broad basis for comparison and cooperation. Even very well-established auditing and accounting systems adapt to developments within governments in individual countries. Notwithstanding the differences in constitutions and the administrative system, all Supreme Audit Institutions shall have certain means to safeguard their independence, decision-making capacity on their work programme and freedom of reporting." The conclusion of the quote. On the basis of this, it can be found that the Court of Auditors also has an increasingly important task than the principle of institution building and increasing the level of professionalisation in the exercise of audit powers. We can see that the audit institution is still being upgraded and is able to respond effectively to all the requirements of the environment in which it operates. However, in the 2002 report on the work of the Court of Auditors, we do not have to accept in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats the assessment that the Court of Auditors has no professional reputation in the domestic environment or that there is a crisis of confidence in the audit findings and audit opinions of the Court of Auditors. The report states that this is particularly felt in the State Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, these findings are limited, in particular in view of the lack of confidence in the audit findings and audit opinions of the Court of Auditors presented at the 18th and 19th meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. These meetings addressed the audit reports on the accounts and implementation of the 2001 State budget and the audit report on the operations of the public company LS between 1988 and 2001. In the UK Group, we are adopting a report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002. Finally, let us stress that we particularly agree with the last sentence in that report, namely that the established identity of the Court of Auditors as the supreme audit institution over the routes of public money has not yet been completed. We firmly believe that the process of creating certain identity elements so far is irreversible or said from the dictionary of foreigners France Vrbinc - Not by Vanderley. Dear members of the Court of Auditors, we wish you a success in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u227	Mr Kelemin will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by a colleague of the SLS Parliamentary Group Malohr. First of all, colleague Kelemina. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Initially, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, I would like to make an assessment that the National Assembly as a whole, and in particular the ruling elite, has an extremely ignorant attitude towards its supervisory function in all segments of its competence. In our parliamentary group, we primarily miss the principled level of close cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly or their working bodies, with regard to cooperation and exchange of views and information, of course, in the spirit or in anticipation of the effectiveness and legality of the use of public money. If we know or if we take the smallness of the Slovenian system as a reality and as a result we identify a system of consumption and control, in this small country, we should be able to achieve so much as a perfectionistic precision regarding the use of public funds and also a system of control. However, we estimate that it is quite the opposite. For everything happens in a circle of friends, a system of spending, a system of control, acquaintances, even in a situation of kinship, so often inefficiency. It is difficult to talk about the independence of such an institution as the Court of Auditors in such situations as the functioning of the use of public funds and the system of control. In our Group of Members, we also assess that the annual report of the Court of Auditors should be seen as a whole. In other words, we need to look at the forest, not the individual trees. If we analyze, for example, individual reports, we can find that, on the basis of the so-called clearance meetings and audit response reports of 90, 95% of the irregularities found are eliminated and from this point of view could even be assessed as successful by the Court of Auditors. But that's not true. What does the Court of Auditors actually audit? In particular, compliance of auditors, consumers of public funds with existing legislation such as the Accounting Act, the Public Finance Act, the Budget Enforcement Act, the Public Procurement Act, other laws, rules on criteria and, of course, sub-legislative acts. Very few, however, are found by the Court of Auditors to be eligible for public money consumption, economy and efficiency. While the European institutions note that it is an appropriate control in Slovenia, we believe that - probably due to deception - this finding is inappropriate. On several occasions, at various meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, we have found that the laws are mutually inconsistent and inconsistent. Not to mention under-laws of state authorities and local authorities. I don't think there's any evidence for that if anyone's interested in looking at the committee's MRIs, and he'll be able to figure out that's true. What the Court of Auditors mainly revises should be taken into account by all auditors. If they do not comply with the rules, they should be punished for this. Not to mention the appropriateness of reporting! For example, irregularities, where it is found that a certain percentage - from 0 to 0.7 percent - of such irregularities are irrelevant. I don't know if this percentage is right, something like that. It's supposed to be under some international rules. Is that really irrelevant? This is at least one billion tolars in the state budget, perhaps more, and if this is irrelevant to the Court of Auditors, it is certainly not for our Group of Members. We estimate that because of what I said at the outset, because of the smallness of the system, because of the small amount of public money spent, due to the large enough institutions of control, this control should actually approach the system of perfectionism. Let me also draw attention to the great will and complacency of the management of the Court of Auditors, which, according to our assessment, also many times depends on the daily policy and the large political bots. Let me give you just one example, but you can create a judgment for yourself. For example, Eles' audit report. This report has been commissioned by the actual Economic Committee. And Eles did this audit, too. However, in order to effectively revise Eles, the Court of Auditors did not find it worth consulting the contracting authority, either the National Assembly or the Audit Committee, for example, what the contracting authority expects from the audit report or what the main direction of the audit would be. No, no, no. On the contrary. The revisionist and others, we're just assessing that the poor are probably ordering what's going to be revised. However, if the work of the auditors is only too thorough, then of course the audit report is convinced by the Court of Auditors that the auditor has made a mistake. If Eles' audit, where I do not claim that the Court of Auditors has not worked hard and processed a lot of material, had a lot of data and been through all this documentation, asked the contracting authority what he actually wanted to get, the results of this audit would certainly be different. Thus, we cannot find much useful data from this report, or the Court of Auditors has only determined whether Eles was operating in accordance with existing legislation and whether it was effective or not in some period that we have stated to investigate. However, if we had consulted the contracting authority, we would have been told that we needed a comparison, or and what the conditions were for electricity trading on the Italian market, and whether Eles had taken advantage of all these opportunities. Of course, the Court of Auditors did not ask this question and then we do not have this report. From what we have, we cannot determine whether Eles operated effectively on the Italian market or not. This is partly to be found in the report, but there is no clear report on this. Let me just say that the first deputy, if I am not mistaken, in the case of Eles, said at the Commission's own meeting that in the history of the Court of Auditors they had not yet experienced such pressure from the auditor, where they had literally attacked every sentence and every word and wanted to make changes. This only points to the impact that someone has on the audit report. But they did not consult once, but asked what they wanted and what the contracting authority expected, nor did they then ask the other party, say, Mr Türk, whether what the auditors are challenging is real. No, this was no longer necessary, only the report had to be amended as much as possible to make it as mild and as misleading as possible. The reports are also not clear and are difficult to understand even to us who have adopted or adopted in the National Assembly the law on the Court of Auditors and approved the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors and which we are adopting a number of other laws. How can a useful report be understood by an ordinary citizen? While the President of the Court of Auditors is not going to say how, he is more powerfully explaining that the reports of the Court of Auditors are intended to inform the public. But I ask, for what purpose? Is it designed to make no sense of him? With the intention of deceiving? I don't think so. Our opposition word doesn't sound like that. However, we resent independent media not to ensure objective reporting on the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. However, if the Court of Auditors is already able to request any reasonable measure, it shall rule it, the Authority, in any event, ignore it. Just look at the tax administration, look at the example of the government's information centre and some others from the background, if you remember them. In short, the one most targeted by the Court of Auditors is the authorities, of course, trying to ignore it in any way. I mentioned earlier how we would expect close cooperation between the Court of Auditors and the National Assembly. One of the many areas of the need for cooperation is the initiative of the Supreme Court of Auditors to make concrete written proposals, if you want, to the National Assembly in order to amend the legislation on non-compliance, inadequacy and inefficiencies. We have seen this a number of times, but unfortunately, these initiatives have been very few or almost nothing. Let me say that neither my own law nor my own rules of procedure is the Court of Auditors likely to want to change. At the meetings, however, we find, and the Court of Auditors only excuses that it is ineffective or unable to act, because the existing law and rules of procedure do not allow them to function effectively. Let me just give you an example so you don't say I'm a dogmatist. If, at the outset, the auditor fails to take any action, he may no longer be investigated in the audit report because he was not initially introduced as a subject of audit. That's unacceptable. This irregularity should be eliminated. We in the opposition, when adopting the law on the Court of Auditors and the Rules of Procedure, have been alerted to inefficiency, and we have been silenced by the media and also voted by a government structure that does not want and, in my opinion, does not need effective control over the use of public money, the money of all of us, who are working or creating a new value, the money that you have put into the common treasury, state treasury, to settle all important social issues. However, bureaucracy and power are consciously violating their own laws and rules, but nothing happens to them. Billions of values are thus lost in unknown places, but neither citizens nor the opposition have any influence on this use of funds. Our final assessment is that with the existing law of the Court of Auditors, the Law on the Court of Auditors and the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Auditors, and also with the existing composition of the Court of Auditors, we are not satisfied and we do not expect positive changes in the future until there is a change in the ruling elite, which only citizens can do in the elections, so long in this area do not expect positive changes. The milkiness, inefficiency, increditability of the Court of Auditors is too great. But I assure you, not because of the opposition's guilt, but because of the guilt of the ruling structures that do not want the Court of Auditors to be more effective. We always strive for the greatest efficiency, the cleaning of things, the elimination of irregularities, unfortunately we are powerless to do so. We also estimate that we have not taken the money of 1.1 billion in 2002 for the work of the Court of Auditors for certain audits to be charged in our country. That's what Mr. Bayuk was talking about. For example, we could use the criteria if everything is O. K., be paid by the State, if irregularities are detected, to such or other limits, to be paid by the auditor. At least such criteria could be introduced. I do not think that I would be illegal and not anti-European. We estimate that the financial resources allocated to the work of the Court of Auditors are not fully justified or justified by its consumption. This is our money, of all citizens, so the public should also demand that their or our money be used more rationally and more effectively. The National Assembly as a whole, unfortunately we have to say this, is not capable or unwilling, is not interested in the efficiency of the Court of Auditors. A one-year report addressed in the National Assembly is too small - probably with the objective of: less and more effective, better for the government structure. On behalf of the Group of Members, I express the main blame for such a situation for our leadership of the National Assembly, which should give greater attention and concern to this issue. Because it's not, the situation is what it is. Our Group does not endorse such a policy in the area of the supervision of the National Assembly over the use of public funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u229	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Mr Malovra will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u230	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Hello, representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, Members and Members of Parliament! We usually say that the Court of Auditors is a special body because it performs such tasks as cannot be classified in either of the three classical branches of government, legislative, executive or judicial. We can somehow compare it with the Ombudsman. The work of the Court of Auditors is also not grateful, as it reports only irregularities, little or no positive reviews. If we go down a little bit in history or in the historical development of the state audit, we can see that the very beginnings go back to ancient Greece when the state audit is intended to help raise as much money as possible. The State audit slowly assumes a new role by informing the public about public finances and accounting in addition to the ruler. After II. World War II audit institutions are gaining an independent and independent position and the content of their work and the circle of auditors are expanding. The first audit institution in our territory was established during the reign of Mary Teresa in 1740 to 1780, but later the control of public consumption in Slovenia was not institutionalised all from II. World War II until the adoption of the Constitution in 1991. It was not until 1994 that an old law on the Court of Auditors was issued on the basis of the Constitution. The current law on the Court of Auditors has, however, entered into force 3.3.2001. Why this short walk through history? The Court of Auditors has recently surprised us with some rather receptive cases when the most stringent measures available have been taken. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we closely monitored their work, especially since we were skeptical when adopting the law on the Court of Auditors and considered that the law and the Court of Auditors were toothless, and we were wrong, thank God. Recently there have been cases of Eles, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Information Centre and the home of older citizens in Kočev, as well as others. A lot of questions were heard in public and by colleagues. Why at the very moment when the re-election of the members of the Court of Auditors is on the agenda? This issue is also raised for us, although we are aware that the law in force is only valid for two years and that the Court of Auditors is a young institution that is yet to be formed and taught primarily in its own experience. The Court of Auditors has two and a half years of action, as notified to the National Assembly, to call for the discharge of the responsible person and a press release, but unfortunately only recently. This should only be a well-intentioned remark and criticism, since in our Group we are convinced that, due to the known facts of the complexity and duration of at least two of these three procedures, only these could not be completed earlier. Above all, we are convinced that the Court of Auditors takes into account the legislation and rules adopted, since those measures are not left to the members of the Court of Auditors to be freely assessed, which is the statutory consequence of certain facts. We expect similar audits in some cases of local communities and in public companies. Here we think mainly of Ljubljana and elsewhere. The Court of Auditors states in the report that 76% of the audit time available was spent in 2002 to meet audit obligations and 24% of the time remained for non-recruitment audits. It issued 74 audit reports. The efficiency of the work has only visibly decreased, but also the best indicator of the efficiency of the Supreme Audit Commission - the number of auditors of the days has not yet reached a satisfactory level, as the Court of Auditors has itself determined in the report. We are convinced that this is still partly due to the short history of this institution and the ongoing establishment of the labour system. In the parliamentary group, more than the figures and statistics recorded in this report seem important to us something else, which is related to one of the basic principles, the principle of the public. This principle has several meanings. Reports from the Court of Auditors provide the National Assembly as the legislative body with information on how the laws are implemented or whether their provisions are taken into account. We will therefore receive feedback on how the law we have adopted is being implemented. Taxpayers and the public also receive this information. Reports from the Court of Auditors are generally given high media attention. However, the pressure on the public affects both the users of public funds and other persons, as well as the Court of Auditors. In particular, the reports shall be prepared professionally and impartially and shall ensure equal treatment of the auditors. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, the greatest importance that the Court's reports may have is that both annual and specific audits begin to follow the opinion of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors will thus justify the purpose, on the one hand, of supervisory and on the other hand of advisory institutions in the use of public funds. With this desire as a traveller to the Court of Auditors, I also conclude my implementation by assessing the work of the Court of Auditors, although in some cases it also has a critical attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u231	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. Mr Gračner will present the views of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mr Pece will conclude a presentation of the views of the groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u232	Mr President, representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance! On behalf of the LDS, I would like to present a report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002. The Law on the Court of Auditors governs the status, the public, the composition, the organisation, the competence, the exercise of audit powers and the conditions for the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall revise the operations of the users of public funds by revising the correctness and prudence of operations in the past operations of the user of public funds. The Court of Auditors Act also lays down the conditions for the work of the Court of Auditors, including the funds which form part of the State budget. Thus, the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 provides for 1.5 billion tolars. It is true that the appropriations already adopted for 2004 are falling, but not at the expense of work or marriage, but that the focus is on rationalisation of operations, in particular as regards material costs. In 2002, the Court of Auditors committed the main part of the audit time to a specific obligation by law. These are mainly audits, the revision of the correctness of the implementation of the State budget, the revision of the regularity of the operation of the Health Insurance Office, the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, the Slovenian Development Society, the revision of the annual reports of political parties and electoral campaign organisers and presidential candidates. Thus, in the LDS, we agree with the Court of Auditors' opinion that in 2002 it mainly dealt with the right audit issues in an effective way. In 2002, the Court of Auditors issued 47 final audit reports. In previous years, a smaller number of auditors have issued more. In measuring the efficiency of the Court of Auditors in the number of audit reports per year, however, it is necessary to note the revised method of auditing the implementation of the State budget, which makes the number of audit reports from 2002 not comparable, for example, to the number of audit reports from 2001, 2000 or previous years. The audit report on the implementation of the 2001 State budget is equivalent to at least 17 audit reports from previous years, when they carried out largely unrelated audits on individual budget items. If we observe another performance indicator, the average number of calendar days from the introduction of the audit to the issuance of the audit report, it turns out that efficiency has been increasing in recent years. The effectiveness of the measurement with the number of day auditors also indicates an increase in efficiency, although a fully satisfactory efficiency has not yet been achieved. The correlation between the number of significant audit findings and the number of days spent is still too small. For this reason, we support the LDS in the report of those measures to increase efficiency. These should be as follows: establishment of appropriate guidance and management of audit departments, support for the revision of IT systems, complementing the audit methods used and existing audit knowledge. At this point, I would also like to reject in the report the related thesis on the crisis of mistrust in the Court of Auditors, the audit findings and the audit opinion, which is to be generated in particular by the National Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances. The personal objections expressed by the Presidents of the Court of Auditors and the Commission at individual meetings, in our opinion, have not been and have not undermined the credibility and confidence in the audit of the Court of Auditors. For all these reasons, we will support the adoption of the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u233	Thank you very much, colleague Gračner. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Then we will go to the debate of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u234	Your Honors are here! In the beginning, I must say that all my faith in the Court of Auditors was taken away from me by a speaker who spoke so deeply, deeply about the Court of Auditors and the matter of matter. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u235	There is no controversy in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u236	To expect the Court of Auditors to carry out its function under the law is, in our opinion, quite irrelevant if we know what kind of government, what principles, and what legal standards and desires for results, guides us. According to our assessment, only the report is wrong. The basic question raised by the rapporteur of the report is also raised incorrectly. The question of what the real issues of the audit are is that we do not see an answer to this. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the answer to this question would be only one, i.e. the conclusion of the missed opportunities, which are reflected in several areas. Until the Court of Auditors responds to the question of missed opportunities, we can only get as much time as we can within this National Assembly, namely the legislative branches of government, reports such as we are witnessing today. The second issue, which, according to our assessment, is, of course, controversial and based on or the basis for such reports, is the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors. If the Court of Auditors provides in particular the number of days spent in the audit, we will not be able to talk so much about the real efficiency, the efficiency that will reduce the number of missed opportunities that are all too much in our country. According to our assessment, the result of the report should reflect two levels or two forms. First time. The format of the long-term budgetary and monetary effects to be reflected in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the number one objective that the Court of Auditors should pursue when considering its work. And secondly, preventing fraud and corruption. While the Court of Auditors states in its report that it follows this objective, the effectiveness of the follow-up to this objective is another issue. If I touch on the Court of Auditors’ own report, in which the applicant introductoryly lists, which are strategically planned activities, i.e. their operations, and divides them into four areas. For the first time, pre-revision, planning, procedure and revision, we can ensure in the National Party, with certainty, based on a thorough examination of the material provided, that the greatest disadvantage of this four-phase procedure is mainly in the first process, this is a pre-revision. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that all the shortcomings of this report, as well as of the works of the Court of Auditors, stem from the first step, namely revisions or other words of the audit decision. In the National Party, another weakness is attributed to the area of the work programme. From the work programme of the Rapporteur, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided us with as a form of matter to which we are supposed to refer, it appears that more than 37% of the work in 2000 represents so-called unfinished audits. And the problem that we refer to in the National Party as a third problem, but the problem with the highest weight, here we match the rapporteurs of the report, is understanding the reports of the Court of Auditors. All too often it happens that this National Assembly, and more importantly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia reports to the Court of Auditors does not take the Court seriously. As long as the government has such a relationship with the Court of Auditors reports, the Court of Auditors will play this role as it plays today. So he plays the role of tampon. A tampon to prevent the strains between irregularities and detection, the culprit. The fact is, according to our assessment, even under the law on the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors could not perform its functions in the form it should. According to our assessment, the measures that should be basically linked to direct budgetary users in terms of improving business and, in particular, which is more important to us as policies, in terms of public spending. The most important thing is to finish. In the National Party, we appeal that if we are to have an accounting court within the legislative branch which, for its part, will provide documentation that will be credible and binding on users, it is necessary to amend the law on the Court of Auditors. The fact is that the Court of Auditors today represents an intangible tampon with only two consequences. First, unnecessary spending of budgetary money, and secondly, giving opinions that, unfortunately, no one takes into account. At the National Party, we appeal that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will agree to improve the law on the Court of Auditors and thus help improve the quality of business in our country and control of irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u237	Thank you. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. My friend Groschel. Comrade Tank, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u238	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. The Court of Auditors is an institution entrusted with the task of monitoring the regularity and legality of the use of public funds to assess the quality of spending through the budget of the planned funds in the public sector. The opinions issued by the Court of Auditors are inviolable and therefore, for all auditors, it is extremely important for all public institutions to measure and judge their work, as well as to express an opinion on their work or the statement of the finding of regularity and irregularity in the same way, on the basis of the same criteria as to be clear. In short, all things are measured by the same vats. The work of the Court of Auditors, the adoption of an annual audit programme, the inclusion of external initiatives and reports should be based solely on a neutral attitude towards the auditor, on a high professional level and on clear labour standards and opinions. No audit, with no decision of the Court of Auditors, may raise doubts that the Court of Auditors has failed to carry out the procedure properly or that it has doubts about the various backgrounds, may also be political. In 2001, a new law on the Court of Auditors was passed, which was written by the Court of Auditors alone and also determined how and how audit procedures will lead, which is very interesting. Most in the National Assembly, however, allowed the almost uncut text of this proposal to be adopted. The amendments and additions proposed by the position were completely ignored, which is quite common for this national assembly. This law has been applied by the Court of Auditors, and the Rules of Procedure have been issued on the basis of this law, to substantially change the form of reporting on the audit of direct budgetary users, that is, ministries. According to the old law, the Court of Auditors provided us with a separate audit of the budget user or ministry, a very well-processed, analytical and very high-quality transparent report, from which we could understand the errors and derogations in the work of each ministry. The current report for each ministry covers one and a half to two and a half pages, in which there is no more than a general description. Such a form of report for the Monitoring Commission and also for this National Assembly is not applicable. They do not show any errors; they do not provide for any responsibilities, either for the Minister or for the persons involved in the individual tasks process. I would like to draw attention to the fact that very different audit reports are for some other users of public funds, such as for senior citizens' homes, for protection and work centres, for individual prosecutors' units, for example, for small municipalities, which, in terms of the size of the funds, are completely irrelevant to public finances. So let's say the report for the home of older citizens in Kočev is 50 pages, and this house, I don't know, may have 500, 600 million tolars. The budget, which weighs 1200, 1300 billion and has 17 ministries, is accompanied by some reports on some government offices, which is a long 70-page report. In short, it is quite clear that the Court of Auditors forwarded to the National Assembly a summary of the summary and did not give sufficient attention to this reporting. Therefore, we can in some way assess that this report is highly structured. It is only on the basis of the response reports that the members of the Commission can see, in fact, what has happened in the individual budget user. And that is only for the part for which the response report was requested. In this review or report, the monitoring committee, as well as this national assembly, remains under cover. The Court of Auditors, which is intended to ensure transparency of public finances, transparency, which is intended to inform the public about the functioning of ministries and other users of public funds, has in some ways some modified criteria and has two completely different reporting methods: one for important and eminent budgetary users, that is, for ministries, and another for purely ordinary users and public funds managers. In some ways, this shows that the Court of Auditors in this work has almost been able to say what has consciously put itself in the role of an arranger or a moderator of public finances, since this method of reporting has masked a large part of the errors in the management and use of public funds by the largest budgetary users in recent years. This is possible if audit standards are not fully complied with. At least the members of the opposition expect the Court of Auditors to issue such reports on the audit of ministries, to identify irregularities in them, to obtain information about persons and partners involved in irregularity transactions, and to receive information on the responsible persons of the budgetary user involved in irregularities and responsible for the conduct of the transaction. When we also compare infringements in the reports of individual budget users, direct and indirect, public enterprises and institutions, we are always in some way not in a position to agree with the opinions and actions in these reports, because sometimes it is found that the measures are somehow disproportionate to the findings. They are sharper for small budget users and much nicer for large budget users. This can be seen in the audit report, such as the Red Cross, Eles, including the Slovenian Development Society and others. In the event of infringements by large budgetary users, the entire chain of activities of preventive and repressive institutions shall be established. Those mechanisms which would be necessary for such findings shall not be triggered. In doing so, I would just like to say that, for example, in Brussels, a €5 million infringement was identified or discussed when the President of the European Commission, Prodi himself, appeared on the Commission and participated and dealt with this problem, for the European situation, for the European Commission a very small amount of €5 million. There is probably no way for us that the Prime Minister would appear on a commission to deal with a violation of €5 million, illegality and relatively smaller ones certainly not. With regard to efficiency and scope of work, I think we can find that the annual scope of audits, given the number of budgetary or public funds users, which are around 3,000, is extremely low. About 70 audit reports are issued annually, with 3 000 users. In some ways, this suggests that some will not come about 40 years. In short, the efficiency of the work and the scope of the work of the Court of Auditors is significantly too low for the situation we have. It is also interesting that the Court of Auditors' report also contains a report on the work of the National Assembly, which is the budgetary control commission, which is a body which is fully independent and independent in dealing with the Court of Auditors' reports and which the Court of Auditors must also present and submit reports in accordance with the organisational scheme. I do not think that this chapter in this part of the Court of Auditors' report is judicial, because, according to this logic, reports on other measures or other matters in the work of other bodies which are bound by the Court of Auditors should also be found in the Court's report, such as the Prosecutor's Office, which the Court of Auditors will also send to it in accordance with the law. I would like to draw attention to another point that is also identified, namely, the conflict between the decisions of the individual authorities of this country, particularly in the field of public procurement. Cases are known where, for example, the Public Procurement Office has given its consent that a specific contract may be carried out by means of, say, a restricted procedure or a negotiated procedure without a prior invitation to tender, and a year after that, the Court of Auditors has found that the procedure was legal or inconsistent. In doing so, the burden has fallen on the auditor, and the Public Procurement Office is completely innocent in this process. I think that this country should have such laws and institutions that oversee the implementation of laws that conflicts between these institutions, which are somehow final or supreme, should not occur. If I finish. I can say that supervisory institutions are acting quite inefficiently in the area of control, public funds. There is no exception to this, either, by the Court of Auditors. In his presentation, Mr President of the Court of Auditors warned that there is no internal control for most budget users, nor does the control that this country has, which is a budgetary inspection. If these internal authorities do not work, it is clear that the burden of public or external control is greater. However, as I have said, these public monitors are not active in their tasks, because very few, given the number of findings and infringements, are proposals for action. All these audit institutions, supervisory institutions, are the main generators of all weaknesses in the financial operations of the public sector. We can see that this is a fairly ineffective system of control and we can also find that these public institutions, which should carry out preventive or repressive controls on their official duty, are very tolerant. I think that the Court of Auditors should play this role more consistently and even harder, because otherwise the proceedings will run to improve transparency of public funds for 10 years or 20 years. In short, unless measures are taken in these institutions, it is also not possible to expect any improvement in the operations of other public consumers, particularly those that are substantially smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u239	Dr. Brace, would you like to take this minute? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u240	Your Honor! On page 34 of this report it is stated that of 17 opinions there are 5 positive, 6 with reservation and 6 negative. The Court of Auditors found that the final accounts of the State budget were not [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and that the state of funds and liabilities of the State budget are not presented in a transparent and complete manner. It further notes here that the implementation of the State budget for 2001 was in significant non-compliance with the rules. It is 11 billion funds that have been used inadequately. One asks why institutions such as the Court of Auditors are needed, but if there are no visible consequences in such difficult findings. No one feels the need to say, say, yes, but this has now exceeded all the limits, we have indeed made a mistake, we have resigned for principle reasons, and the specifics are listed in the report, or from objective responsibility and so on. This is where it turns out. Can I finish? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u241	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u242	Here it has now been shown on this particular case concerning the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002 that the Court of Auditors, in fact, finds irregularities in the operations of the State authorities or budget consumers annually and there are no concrete effects. And how does the government react? And this is the summit that I'm actually talking about. If we look at the audit report on the accounts and implementation of the 2001 budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we see on page 212, the same text that I mentioned earlier, that is to say, all irregularities in the operations of direct budget users were at least 11,473,621,000. This is said to be a clear summary of the findings. I was then interested, of course, in much more concrete data, but I wondered how the government reacted to such a difficult finding. And please take a look at page 276 of the rapporteur, number 100/I. On such serious matters as the findings of the audit carried out by the Court of Auditors, the Government adopted the following conclusions at its 168th letter meeting, on 4 October 2002, under point 1, and here are some conclusions on two sides. [[...]] That is to say, the government did not seem worthy of such serious matters [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u243	My friend Brajc [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u244	as a negative opinion of the Court of Auditors on its business, considered it at a meeting as appropriate, but considered it to be a small matter or I do not know what, or such an important thing to remove it with, I don't know, what, eight conclusions, such as, of course, what is the value of the Court of Auditors for this government. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u245	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u246	I think we're a strange country!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u247	Please! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u248	I apologize to the President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u249	Two and a half minutes in time. The government? You want a word? Madam Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to Dr. Brace's discussion. This was the final account in 2002, if I am right in my memory, because I do not have this rapporteur with me. I think that the budgetary control committee, all the phases that have been set up by the government to remedy the irregularities that have been presented in the Court's report, has also been addressed. The conclusions adopted by the Government at the letter meeting were not only addressed at the letter meeting but also at the regular meeting. However, since the conclusions had to be supplemented, the written meeting finally adopted this. The activities that the government had led to this issue were not limited. The budgetary inspection has been included in the verification of all response reports, all ministries and government services which have had opinions in the statements negative or with reservations. The corrective measures were then re-checked by the budgetary inspection. And the result I think is also reflected in the audit report of the final budget account, for 2003, where the situation is significantly improved, of course, and it is still not entirely satisfactory. But I do not think that the government is acting in a way that does not respond to the findings of the Court of Auditors, but rather takes them very seriously and tries to correct irregularities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u251	President of the Court of Auditors, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u252	All the comments, all the reviews, all the criticisms that have been made or I don't intend to, I can't answer. However, some, especially those for which evaluation is not primarily for valuation, are for valuations, but more or less for the correct or incorrect determination of facts. But first of all, the comment or resentment expressed by the President of the National Assembly Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, Dr. Bayuk, of course, is not the first time today, but at the Commission's meetings. This is an objection to the method used by the Court of Auditors in reporting on the revision of the implementation of the State budget. Here Dr. Bajuk has two, one could say, comments that I think should be distinguished again. One comment concerns the number of reports, whether it should be a single report or more, as many as the auditors in this audit. However, the second point concerns the generality of the disclosures given in the audit report. This first observation, whether the report should be one or more, has already been discussed several times. I don't know, I think it's a misunderstanding, because this question of how much to report, or one or more, is, in my opinion, a technical-editorial issue. In addition, we have to deal with even the following practice or the following has happened. We revised the implementation of the 2000 state budget and reported on the findings of this audit by issuing several reports, separate reports. We have issued an audit report on the state budget accounts for 2000 and then separate reports for each ministry separately. She followed up on a committee hearing. The audit report on the accounts was first considered. After further consideration of this report, it was found that this report was insufficient that the Court of Auditors must, when reporting on the implementation of the State budget, say anything other than what it said to that one report. I explained that the Court of Auditors actually did this, because we consider all reports on the operations of ministries to be audit reports on the implementation of the State budget. Let me cut you some slack. After the meeting, the first thing I did when I came home, it is said to the Court of Auditors, that I had my coworkers gather all the reports and then we issued them together, but we published them together, and so together with the combined report I wrote a foreword and sent them all together again to the National Assembly to make it clear what all the audit report on the budget is. There was a committee meeting, and I thought I'd help with that kind of behavior. I didn't. However, the Commission found that this was now quite another, that the tone was a formal legal situation, since the government, when it considered the proposal for a final account, did not address all these reports, but only a report on the statements, so it was decided that the meeting should be suspended and that the government should be asked to reconsider the examination, so it takes into account not only that one report on the statements, but all remained. The government then, according to the external signs, I don't know if she did, consider, communicate her conclusions. The decision was published in the Rapporteur. Then came the Commission's meeting again, at which we found or found, well, individual reports, reports on the operations of individual ministries, the Commission did not consider. The following year, when we combined several reports into one, we thought that, at least as far as I am concerned, I accepted the responsibility, I had decided or said, that we should give all reports as one report, that we would contribute to transparency, that it would be easy for the Court of Auditors to report on the revision of the implementation of the State budget, by reporting on what it had found with the audits at individual ministries, by reviewing the reports and so on. This, of course, does not change the responsibility for depositing the public accounts of individual ministries, as we have clearly stated in the audit report at the outset who the auditors are and clearly stated who the person responsible for the audit is, and for each ministry we report separately on what audit findings we have and for each ministry we deliver an opinion on business. In addition to the opinions on business for each ministry, there is also an opinion on the implementation of the entire state budget. So just because the reports are together, I can't see the problem in this. But the question of generality is quite different. This is a question that we can ask ourselves, whether we issue one or more reports. Here we take note in the Court of Auditors that there is a need for a more detailed description of the reported irregularities. However, there is also some misunderstanding at this level, especially when you tell us that, for example, in some other cases, reporting on revealed irregularities is more detailed. And the conclusion that in other cases it is more detailed because, I don't know, the government is a privileged auditor, is that, as far as I am aware of the reasons why these differences exist, it is not true. The difference between one report and another follows from the nature of the thing. In reviewing the state budget, we have this extensive testing of details. We're checking 4,500 payments around, and I think, I guess, I'm sure it's not possible to report each payment separately, so let's divide the budget into segments. And for 2001, there were 71 such segments, and for each segment of the state budget we are making an assessment of the degree of irregularity. So these degrees of irregularity are 71. It is true that this is a level of generality [[End warning sign]] We are not referring to individual payments, but rather to a separate segment of the state budget, but these are 71. In short, it is probably necessary to report on such a large audit and on the audit of someone who has fewer and fewer of all these transactions being tested. I'm sorry to overstep your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u253	Please, have you finished your thought? [[Yeah.]] Okay. Then I will also conclude the debate and proceed to the consideration of the decision. We only have one conclusion on our agenda. This is the conclusion that the National Assembly took note of the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002. However, the second decision, as I have already said, cannot be decided by the National Assembly. In fact, as the President of the Commission himself said, we have also adopted this decision by means of this debate. First, I ask, does anyone want to discuss this decision? By the time we're due for this point, we've got about ten minutes left. First of all, I will give my word to those groups of Members who still have time at their disposal. Any of those words? Anyone else want a word? My friend Brace raised his hand. Anyone else? We've got ten minutes to go. Comrade Brace, you have five minutes at your disposal, and then we'll close the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u254	That's enough for ten minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u255	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u256	Okay. I would just like to say that, although Mrs State Secretary's response is satisfactory in this direction - okay, it is an explanation that the government has previously addressed the proposal for a final budget account and so on for 2001, this was done on 4 October 2002 in a written meeting, but before that the government may have had a discussion, you say. And I'd really like to know when that was, and please, if you'll give me -- not today later, because you probably don't have all the meetings in your memory -- you answered. But just to finish the thought that I wanted to finish earlier. I thought Mr. President would let me continue because it was just another minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u257	Don't apologize. It was my fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u258	I'm afraid you haven't all read this material. In fact, it is hard to imagine that a Member of the National Assembly responsible to the people ignores the sentence written by the Court of Auditors. And this sentence reads - on page 34: "Therefore it was found - then the Court of Auditors - that no audited person had drawn up the report in full. Therefore, it was not clear whether the individual auditor or the country as a whole had been successful." Thus, the Court of Auditors points out in this report to all of us that it is not possible to conclude from the material that the country as a whole has been successful in its operations. And we're listening to the Prime Minister, Mr. Rope, plant us flowers. So, I am very concerned about the state of the spirit in this House, although it is only a reflection of the state of the spirit in the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately I cannot find a way to alert the public, because anyone else could have done anything here. Of course, I know that only elections can change things; but it's still a long way to go, and with a situation like this, it's a question of how it's going to be. I also ask you, Mr President, whether the National Assembly has any opportunity to stand up to its reputation and call on the government to respond to this. Since the answers to these decisions do not provide an answer to this difficult finding by the Court of Auditors. I think that we should seriously consider having any comments to the Court of Auditors - I am not going into this because I do not know myself for the revision, but when I read the results of their work, I am appalled because this means that if experts cannot determine what the financial situation or health or disease of the State is - yes, where are they left me? Does this mean a general lack of confidence in all the information that governments bring to this national assembly and communicate to the public? Well, we already experienced something that week when the Prime Minister was presenting the budget. On Monday we had one piece of information, and three days later, the head of the UMAR brought others. This is how we are used to it, but this is an audit report, a weighty one. I think we should say something about this, a decision on the basis of this debate, or else this is all without meaning. Why are we sitting here till 9:00 p.m. if nothing happens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u259	Okay. This concludes or terminates this agenda item. We will decide on the decision in a few minutes when the decision on the items on the agenda today will begin at 21. 45 minutes. So until I decide on the end of the 19th point, I will order a recess, and I will invite my colleagues and colleagues to be in the hall at exactly the hour. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u260	Colleagues and colleagues! Good evening again. We will move to the vote on the proposals for decisions that have been on the agenda today, and before that, of course, we must calm down. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We will first decide on the amendments tabled to the proposal for a law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. In Article 2, we have the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament and Article 3 of the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament and of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We will first decide on the amendment of the LDS to Article 2. We're voting. We're voting! 65 in attendance, 44 in and 11 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 11.]] This one's been adopted. Under Article 3, we will first decide on the amendment of the LDS Club of Members and then on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. First, on the amendment of the LDS. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We all need to keep our heads together. May I have your attention, please? 64 present, 48 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] And now for the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. 63 present. 20 for and 41 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] He wasn't accepted. We're moving to third reading. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 2 and 3. Would qualified candidates like to table amendments? The amendments were not tabled. Now I'm going to find out the consistency. I have no comments on the text, so the National Assembly may decide on the law. Please explain your voice, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u261	At the National Party, we expected that the National Assembly would manage so much wisdom and find some final solution to this imaginary issue. According to our assessment, adopting a law without financial consequences is, of course, irresponsible, especially in the situation of such a level of public finances in which we are today. To the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who was present at the debate, we have offered a solution to the state assembly to repeat the story he repeated around the law on post-war crimes. Because he decided to limit the possibility of reimbursement. We estimate that this would be a necessary step by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to resolve this issue seriously and to try, of course, to resolve this issue in a credible manner, to the satisfaction of all, but in particular, Slovenia and Slovenia. Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been prepared to debate such a solution, we cannot support the proposal you put to the vote in the National Party, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u262	Please, buddy Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u263	Thank you for your word. Let me explain my voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u264	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u265	First of all, it should be noted that in those days the new country of our Republic of Slovenia was very broad-minded, very consistent and made it possible for 200,000 foreigners, all who applied for citizenship, to be granted citizenship. [[...]] These were 177,000. Others who did not regulate their residence status were only the case of Ljubljana, 7000 who did not apply or resolve their status, 7 000 were sent invitations to foreigners, only 200 were served, and others returned with the designation "moved" or "unknown". And of course, there were many others in Slovenia who had already moved away with feeling and conviction. We have never put up a problem for those who really lived in Slovenia. They need to regulate their status, but this law here somehow saves and recklessly grants this status of permanent residence to all. That's why I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u266	Peace in the hall! Please. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I have to voice my voice again. Today we spoke on the European Affairs Commission and, of course, at an associated or joint meeting with the Foreign Policy Committee on the Constitutional Treaty. Why am I saying this? On the developments, on the interparliamentary conference, on the costs, on the MEPs, on Europe - however, there was no information on the costs either on this or on the other. And once again, once again, I ask this Parliament to consider. Today we have heard from Mr Bulgarian - I understand that they cannot assess the cost. And I can say that there will be someone who can even present a referendum on this issue. These costs of this referendum will certainly be cheaper than the costs that will arise if we adopt this law. And if this referendum happens, I'm not in favour, but the only way to express the will of all Slovenians is by referendum. In this case, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I take over or express my full responsibility to support this referendum, if it occurs, and any costs which are fully clear and well-known. But I say that they will be less than the costs incurred by the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u268	The National Assembly will decide on the law. We are voting on the law as a whole. Present 69, 45 for and 19 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We are at the 20th item of the agenda - the bill on the protection of bahn and the amendments to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We will first decide on the amendments tabled, which are proposed under Articles 1 and 8. We have tabled an amendment to Article 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Can we make a decision? We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 1. 65 present, 45 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By Article 8, we have the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS MPs. We decide on the amendment to Article 8. 64 present, 50 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The second hearing is closed. We now have a procedural proposal that, at this point, the decision on this agenda item should be suspended and decided at the next meeting - that the third hearing should be held at the next meeting. Each group of Members may communicate its views on this procedural proposal. First, my friend Peca, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u269	According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this is the case for the use of the Rules of Procedure. However, of course, which is not the greatest evil in this case and a bad practice, where I predict that if you give in to the proposal of Liberal Democracy, we will also serve this instrument of functioning of parliamentary democracy in the National Party. We hope you'll be just as "correct" then. On the other hand, we ensure that such a procedural proposal is the content or desire of the interests of capital by insurance companies d.d. We'll object to the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u270	I would just like to say that today we have met the leaders of the parliamentary groups when it comes to how to act and that it is precisely because there would be no abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the LDS Group has withdrawn its original proposal and has changed it, and this is corrected. So it doesn't mean any danger to bring down some kind of order that exists. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? Okay. Then we will decide on the proposal to hold a third hearing at the November session. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. 69 present, 53 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I note that we have taken this decision and have thus concluded this item on the agenda. We have the 26th item of the agenda - the 8th regular annual report of the Ombudsman for 2002. We are in the decision-making process on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. This is an amendment to Chapter 8. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to chapter 8. We're voting! Present 66, 36 for, 26 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] This supplement was adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the 8th Annual Report of the Ombudsman. May I have your attention, please? There's too much noise. You want a word before the vote? Voice explanation, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u271	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we would also recommend that, as part of the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we recommend that, insofar as we have all the criticisms at the expense of the Ombudsman on the one hand and with all the criticisms at the expense of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the non-implementation of the recommendations, the Ombudsman's opinion should be included in the option, thus adding that the Ombudsman should be allowed to propose laws to the National Assembly. From the debates in the framework of the National Assembly, the Group of Members,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u272	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u273	We have seen that we are not satisfied with the action of the Ombudsman because he did not have [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u274	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u275	different powers. [[...]] According to our assessment, such a deficit could be filled with a fact or a dictatorship that, of course, the Ombudsman in his field would have such authority. We therefore propose that, Mr President, the framework of the decision be supplemented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considering or determining that the Ombudsman also has such a function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u276	But I won't surprise you if I let you know that your proposal is not possible. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u277	You surprised me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u278	It's been enough time to do that. One amendment tabled by the parliamentary group has been decided and adopted and is an integral part of the report that we will now vote on. Anyone else want to explain their voice before making a decision? Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I've listened to the Ombudsman's report twice. Everyone who does is making mistakes. Today was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u280	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u281	That's a hell of a debate. [[...]] I assess in my own name, and I think we can share an opinion - after talking to our colleagues in the Slovenian National Party - that the Ombudsman is working to protect rights and does not resent me if I draw the parallel that we talked about in the Court of Auditors, that is to say the creation of a law that will give some more rights and a few more opportunities on the one hand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u282	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u283	to the Court of Auditors that it will also be able to give real, not just opinions and spend state money, as well as a guardian who works hard to draw up an opinion that assesses the reality [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u284	Please, colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u285	and who fights against such a multitude of different opinions as some individuals are now fighting, or most here in this Chamber. [[...]] In short, I estimate that the guardian has done his job well, that he has insufficient jurisdiction. I want to have more, and I want the guardian to do his job well because of these more powers. It's not his name, it's his work, it's his attitude to people and people. I will support the report and agree with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u286	We are moving on to decisions on the proposal for a recommendation to the Ombudsman's eighth regular annual report, as supplemented by the amendment of the Group of Members. We're voting. We vote on the proposal for a recommendation. Peace in the hall. Present 67, 54 for and 4 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] The proposed recommendation is adopted and the agenda item is closed We are at the end of the 27th point, in the report of the Court of Auditors in 2002. We have one conclusion: his mother's working body suggested him to the National Assembly, and that is to get to know him. Please, look. If there's been any mistreatment, then of course I'll be asking for a little attention so that we don't do the wrong thing. [[...]] We have one conclusion that the National Assembly has taken note of the report, and we will now decide on it. Can we do that? Comrade Barovic, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u287	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to stress once again that the law on powers and the work of the Court of Auditors should be amended to give it more powers, not to be given by the Court of Auditors alone and solely by opinions on which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u288	Please, have a seat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u289	is there anyone who's paying attention? [[..]] The work of the Court of Auditors should be important if every municipality in Slovenia comes in line every ten years for so many billions - I don't know if it matters, I don't care. In view of the fact that the Court of Auditors gives only and only the opinions that some Commissions discuss, are concerned, assess, implement, others do not care, it does not seem fair to me to the content of this work, and on behalf of the Group of Members, I say that we will abstain from the report. We note, however, that today we have warned three times that there is an urgent need to change the law, not again because of the four ps, but in the interests of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, honest work and conduct by law and, of course, by constitutional provisions, of which we have talked a lot about at some points of this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u290	We're making a decision. Excuse me, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr President, an explanation of vote. Of course, we got to know each other, we had this debate that we wanted us to have. However, I would like to draw attention, Mr President, to the stiffness and impossibility created by our rules of procedure, as to the fact that the work of a non-legislative working body must also have different options. I think that this National Assembly has too committed itself to taking us into some kind of illogical nonsense that we can actually deal with, but we can't conclude anything. We can't have any conclusion because we tied our own hands. I hope that we can solve this once and that we will really find another solution to this. Because it is not possible in such works as this report that we are not allowing any decision on the basis of the debate itself. This seems very pointless to me, and I hope that you will be on this committee, which is now reviewing the effectiveness or effectiveness of our rules of procedure, to listen to what we have already proposed at the beginning, but when there was no hearing Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-29-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u292	We can vote. We vote on the decision. The National Assembly took note of the report on the work of the Court of Auditors in 2002. Please. The decision is adopted. 72 in attendance, 57 in and 3 in. (For the vote was 57.)(against 2.) The point is closed. At 28th and 29th, we have two ratifications. First, in the case of the 28th draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the military field. Do qualified discussers want a word? No, no, no. Then we can decide on this bill. We vote on the bill. We are voting on the proposal for a law ratifying this agreement. 69 present, 62 for and 2 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] This law has been adopted. At point 29, we have a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on mutual assistance in customs matters. Do qualified discussers want a word? Can we make a decision about the law? We're voting on the law. We are voting on the law on ratification of this agreement. 69 present, 60 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. Now we have quite a few decisions that are related to the proposals of the Election Commission. We're at the 30th item of the agenda. We will first decide on the proposals for decisions on election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice has submitted six proposals for election to the National Assembly for a judicial function. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? I hear he apologized. He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then we'll go to the decision. May I have your attention so that there is no misunderstanding? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Tomaž Pavčnik to the district judge's seat at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. 67 present, 54 for and 1 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the motion for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Irene Pahor to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. 63 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are moving on to a decision on the motion for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Dragice Kotnik to the judicial seat of the Court of Offences at the Senate for the Offences of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 64 present, 53 for, versus 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Valentine Markič to the judicial seat of the Judge for Offences at the Judge for Idovščina's Offences. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 65 present, 55 for, versus 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Ms Maja Turenšek to the judicial seat of the judge for offences before the judge for offences in Laško. We're voting. 68 present, 56 for, versus 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Andreja Polzelnik Markovic to the judicial seat of the Court of Offences in Ljubljana. We're voting. 63 present, 53 for, versus 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] To avoid misunderstandings, it was not Mrs Markič, but Mrs Markovic - it was a technical mistake which I apologize to the lady. I hope that doesn't cause any problems. All right, if the assembly has taken note of this. Proposal for a decision appointing the members of the Statistical Council. This proposal for a decision was also submitted to the assembly by a mandate-holder commission. We're voting. 67 present, 50 for, 11 versus. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The last decision today is a proposal for a decision on the agreement on the appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for an agreement to appoint a meeting was submitted by the Council of the Foundation. Does he want the word "representative"? [[No, no, ……]] This proposal has also been addressed by the Election Commission on a mandate, and the President does not want a word. Then we can decide on a proposal for a decision on whether to appoint a mags. Flowers of Uršič for the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations for a period of 5 years. We're voting. That's the final decision today. May I have your attention, please? Peace in the hall! Of the 69 present we were 62 for and none against. [[The vote is 62.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. This concludes this item on the agenda and for today the work of the National Assembly. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., we'll pick it up. Thank you very much. Have a nice evening, as long as it's left!
