ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u1	The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will begin its meeting at 12 noon. [[...]] The Constitutional Commission, which began its meeting at 9 a.m., notes that a number of corrections would be necessary in the explanatory memorandum, not in the text of the constitutional law. These corrections should be carefully prepared. At 11 a.m., the Constitutional Commission will review this once again. And I suppose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia could start a meeting at 12 noon to discuss and decide on the adoption of a constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day! I begin the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Michael Brejc, Vojko Čeligoj, Ferri Horvat, Janez Janša, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Maximilian Lavrinc, Anton Partljič, Alojz Peterle, Franc Sušnik from 3 p.m. onwards, Davorin Terčon, Janko Weber and Tsveta Zalokar Orazem. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I would like to welcome a representative of the government between us! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Vote explanation, Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u3	In the framework of the SNS Group of Members, we sincerely expected that we would be able to approach the proposal for a decision to withdraw agenda item 1 from today's meeting, because we do not see any reason in the context of our Group of Members which would order us to address this point today. As we know, Europe, the European Union, or NATO, where you are pushing us, the government Members and those Members who support it do not require us to change the constitution. There are some members of the European Union who have an unaltered constitution and who do not write these nonsensees in their highest legal act, as the Slovenian policy is willing to do, because of the once-a-day promise of the Slovenian government. We estimate that this generosity of Slovenia to foreigners in all respects, in some form of international integration, will appear to be negative, because at the end of the stage we are aware and also through the Constitutional Commission we have come to realize that the changes on the paper sheet marked by constitutional law are much more extensive and their consequences will be felt mainly in the future. So we step into an unknown area, which will bring all these constitutional changes into our legal order. In addition, it should be stressed that, within the framework of the Slovenian National Party, we assess that Slovenia has already recognised the primate of European Union law, if not otherwise, by signing the European Association Agreement. In 1997, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requested the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which also stated in its content that the legal effect of the provisions was to place Slovenia in the same position as it would if it were a member of the European Community and that it was subject to its law. In this way, we estimate that this approach, so that we are also writing these things in the highest legal act, in four areas, as we will later hear in the content, is irrelevant. I also think that the most important argument, or I will say it in the end, is far from being the least important, the time frame for adopting constitutional changes. We must be aware that we have already adopted the basic decisions on the call for a referendum on EU accession and NATO. And even before we give people, citizens and citizens the opportunity to decide at the referendum whether to lose the sovereign own country of the Republic of Slovenia is to lose territory or to lose their executive and legislative powers; therefore, before we know whether citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are to do so, politics will legitimize it. What's the point of calling a referendum if we don't even give people the chance to tell if they're up for it. We estimate that it will make sense, and we will not support today's draft agenda within the framework of the parliamentary group, to continue this meeting when a clear referendum decision is reached when we all have a mandate to negotiate these things together, and we will not only be subject to government policy. In the National Party, we will oppose the proposal for a agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of vote before the vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, for which the assembly will consider one item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a constitutional law amending the first chapter and the 47th and 68th Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 67 of us present. 60 votes against 7. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 28th extraordinary meeting has been set. That's how we move on to the only one, 1. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A POSITIVE LAW ON AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER 1 AND 47. And 68. Member of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a constitutional law was submitted by the Constitutional Commission for consideration by the assembly and received by a partial report from the Commission. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Borut Pahor, to further explain the constitutional law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia decides for the second time as the founder. When we first broke up, we instructed the Constitutional Commission to draw up a proposal for a constitutional law, with views as adopted by the National Assembly. The Constitutional Commission, with the great and outstanding cooperation of the section, which I sincerely thank on behalf of all of us, has done this work and has drawn up a proposal for a constitutional law, and you have an explanation before you. The proposal for a constitutional law or amendment of the Constitution is necessary for three reasons: we must ensure that the work of sovereign rights can be transferred to the European Union or its institutions; we must ensure that its citizens can be extradited to other Union members; and we must ensure that European rights in the free movement of capital dictate the open market of properties for foreigners. In the implementation part of the constitutional law, we regulate that the voters and voters in the referendum on 23 March 2003 will, on our conscience, decide on Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO. This referendum will be binding, a decision will be taken if it is voted on by the majority of voters who will cast valid ballots and the referendum cannot be repeated. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order for the decision to be taken today, the constitutional majority, 60 or more Members of the National Assembly must vote for it. Such a constitutional majority is very rarely required to take decisions in the National Assembly. Today we decide as constitutionalists and we intervene in a fundamental social contract. For her, such an intervention requires a broad political consensus. The Constitutional Commission, all of us who participated in it, because of the differences that took place at the beginning of our work, has made a great deal of effort to finally reach a text that, with the help of the expert group, is well-prepared, nomotechnically prepared and enjoys enough broad political support so that we can hope that today the National Assembly will also adopt this constitutional change. In Slovenian politics, and probably not elsewhere, there is no royal path to such compromises. It was therefore necessary to work hard, and it was necessary to make a great deal of effort, but this effort was eventually paid off. Indeed, the Constitutional Commission has repeatedly interrupted its work, made numerous consultations with experts, returned to work and coordinated views so that we could actually finish our work this morning. All this effort wasn't in vain. This effort was aimed at obtaining today's Members and Members a preliminary text, which, as it is said, is nominally correct in legal terms and enjoys the necessary two-thirds support of colleagues and colleagues. The National Assembly will therefore decide today whether the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are such that it can decide for it; I hope that it will do so and thus conclude at least in this part, in this area of constitutional change, in the field of international cooperation, a very large task which Slovenia had before it in order to join the European Union and NATO if the electorate and voters so decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u7	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly is today as the founder before the third constitutional amendment, this time in a substantive sense the most radical and also extensive. In our view, the political majority of the proposed changes are proof that Slovenian policy and, in particular, the founder, the National Assembly, are aware of the importance of changing the Constitution with the greatest possible political consensus. As already mentioned by the President of the National Assembly and the President of the Constitutional Commission, some compromises were needed. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that from today's perspective and today's behaviour these compromises have not gone to the detriment of content. At this point it should be mentioned that it is good for the National Assembly to amend the Constitution in cooperation with the profession and also with the greatest possible support. It is true that we were again surprised last night by one of the fathers of the Slovenian Constitution, Dr. Bučar, who with him waved his own directness with his hand and said that these changes to the Constitution were not necessary. We appreciate his attitude towards the Constitution and also the change of constitution. But with the fact that we have touched the European identity of the Slovenian country hundreds of times, we expect and want the majority opinion of the profession to be right. This should also be enshrined in the Constitution. Various experts participated in the section. It must be acknowledged, however, that on some issues all were not the same. I think it's right to say this here and thank everyone for their work. A key change facing the National Assembly today is that, in our view, it constitutes a transformation of the fundamental characteristics of Slovenian constitutionality. Article 1 of the Basic Constitutional Charter states that the Republic of Slovenia is an independent and independent State. With today's amendment and next week's announcement into the Slovenian Constitution, we are consciously writing down constitutional provisions on the basis of which Slovenia will incorporate its European identity at constitutional level. Or as stated in the explanatory memorandum - purpose 3a. The Article is to open the constitutional possibility for the international treaty, which is ratified by a two-thirds majority of all Members by the same majority as it is necessary to amend the Constitution, to transfer the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations. Such a change in the Constitution does not result in any international effect, nor does it transfer the exercise of sovereign rights to any international organisation, but merely allows the possibility of such a transfer of sovereign rights in the future by amending the Constitution. We look forward to this possibility in the Slovenian People's Party and we are confident that this will happen. From the content of paragraph 1 and paragraph 3a. It follows from the article that the Slovenian Constitution is not or will no longer be a fully original provision, justified only by the value horizon of the Slovenian national constitutionalist or, if you wish, by the company, it will become an integral part of the European Constitution. And this new situation is understood to be extremely positive, creative, because, in our firm belief, with the great support of Slovenian elections and voters to join the European Union at the referendum of 23 March next year, we will also be involved in a dynamic and tense relationship with the European legal order and the European Convention on Human Rights. And three courts will oversee the implementation of this: Strasbourski, Luxembourg and Slovenian Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the proposal to write as a constitutional standard the formulation that Slovenia enters into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for the principles of the rule of law and democracy. In changing the Constitution, we will also write down how citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will decide to enter the defence union and also into the European Union. We are pleased and can say in public here that we have been active in drawing up a political agreement on the nature of this referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party, we trust the Slovenian voters and voters to support the entry into NATO on 23 March, despite some complex circumstances, following their own reflection on the referendum. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that today we will act as founders in a wise manner when, as a new constitutional norm, we write down the Government's constitutional duty to act in matters relating to Slovenia's participation in international organisations to which Slovenia transfers the exercise of the work of sovereign rights, to inform the National Assembly as well as the obligation to take into account Parliament's position in its operation. This commitment, in our view, is the lower limit; if we were braver, nothing would be wrong. It is a direction that is present in many European countries, already in the European Union, and also in countries that are entering it. How to maintain credibility and confidence in national parliaments and consequently national governments under different conditions and relations that will be in force in the European Union? These conditions and these relations will be different, and therefore it is very important that the constitutional norm determines the relationship between the national Parliament and the national government. We will also look forward to solutions in the so-called European Constitution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we first followed a professional opinion that it would be good to come from a so-called combined approach rather than an abstract one. Somehow we expected the Slovenian Constitution to be worthy of writing where Slovenia enters. However, professional opinions and political agreements convinced us that we had given up our position. We also wanted and considered that, from the perspective of the founder, it would be wise to find some very short formulation, which would also talk about the possibility of getting out of international organisations. It is true, however, that the profession here was so unanimously very skeptical or practically only one legal expert supported such a position, and of course we respect the majority decision. We have also taken note of the provisions of Article 47 in the Group of Members. In fact, it speaks of the extradition of our citizens to foreign organisations. We have supported a restrictive approach to amending Article 47, which we have advocated since the beginning. At the same time, we welcome the clear wording of this constitutional law, so that there will be no disinterpretation if extradition or surrender of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to the international criminal courts which have been established so far is possible. If I mention temporary international criminal courts for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda and the international criminal court established by the Rome Statute, of 1.7.1998. Although my fellow Members do not listen to me, as has been said, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will unanimously support the proposed amendments to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Lenko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group supports the proposal for a constitutional law amending the first chapter, and the 47th and 68th Articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since, in our opinion, it is reasonable to resolve the differences between the position and the opposition regarding the legal and political dilemma in the transfer of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations based on respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law. In our view, the proposed solution is also an appropriate constitutional basis for accession to the European Union and any other international organisations to which the Republic of Slovenia would like to transfer the exercise of its sovereign rights in the future. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners agrees with the proposed regulatory regime, which introduces Article 3a for the first three principal and general constitutional articles, which most generally define the nature of our social and political arrangements. We therefore believe that, by means of the proposed solution to Article 3a, we are placing an appropriate, normative and substantive transfer of part of our country's self-government rights to international organisations as well as entry into defence liaisons. The proposed placement of paragraph 3a of Article 3a made it necessary to amend or amend Article 8 of the Constitution, and we therefore agree with the position of the expert commission that Article 8 of the Constitution is not being amended. In the course of the debate, our Group advocated an abstract or general approach, which does not explicitly mention any international organisation to which the exercise of sovereign rights is transferred, because such a solution is covered by our Constitution, which dominates an abstract or general way of regulating possible social relations. In our opinion, the proposed solution to the abstract approach has adequately resolved the constitutional dilemmas, so we have not heard about the solutions resulting from a specific or combined approach to the definition of the constitutional basis for the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the defence union. The second paragraph of Article 3a, in our opinion, has also adequately resolved the issues of the obligations regarding the call for a referendum with which citizens should give their consent regarding the transfer of the work of their sovereignty to international organisations. We believe that the appropriate solution, which assumes that such a referendum is not binding, but optional. It would not be rational for a constitutional standard to oblige the government to present a referendum when it comes to transferring part of sovereign rights to international organisations in any event. In doing so, we would like to point out that the appropriate solution is also in the second section of the proposal for a constitutional law that resolves the great political dilemma over the nature of the referendums that have already been signed, in this regard, to create a consensus between all those political options that consider the proposed steps to bring the European Union and NATO closer to each other and that they leave no doubt for the sincere purposes of those who conduct those procedures. During the debate of the Constitutional Commission, our Group did not support the proposed provision to provide for our country's withdrawal from the international organisation. We believe that this problem is adequately resolved by the current international regulation and that there is therefore no need for us to introduce in our constitutional text a solution that would already pre-examine our fears about the institutions to which we approach. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners explicitly supports the solution given in paragraph 3a of Article 4 which in general obliges the Government to inform the National Assembly of the proposals for acts adopted by international organisations to which the Republic of Slovenia will bring the exercise of the work of its sovereign rights. Due to the democratic deficit reflected in the functioning of the European Union, where the role of Parliament has so far been overturned, it is right to regulate the relationship between Parliament and the government through a constitutional provision similar to that of other European Union members. It seems appropriate that those relations should be broken down by a law which must be adopted by a greater consensus than that laid down for the adoption of other acts of law. The amendments to Articles 47 and 68 of the Constitution were not disputed for our Group of Members. Indeed, it has already been necessary to amend or supplement the existing article 47, which prohibits the extradition of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to a foreign country. Our country has so far confirmed a number of agreements that provide for such an option by means of the proposed amendment, and we are making or modifying existing legal arrangements for the fulfilment of obligations arising from already adopted international acts. The proposed amendment to Article 68 removes two existing conditions for the acquisition of property rights by foreigners, the condition of reciprocity and the condition of a two-thirds majority at the time of the adoption of the law and the international contract, which lays down the conditions for the acquisition of property rights. In our view, such a constitutional solution will reflect more appropriately the principles of free movement of goods or the free movement of persons within international organisations such as the European Union. The current legislation will nevertheless effectively address the existing problem by adopting that amendment. In fact, it will no longer separate between foreigners and Slovenian citizens, but in view of existing problems and in terms of eligibility to use real estate. The adoption of the proposed European package will enable our country to successfully continue its accession procedures to the European Union institutions and defence links. Therefore, our Group fully supports the adoption of the proposal for a constitutional law. In doing so, we are aware that we have only taken the first step towards the envisaged constitutional changes, including the proposal of the Democratic Party of Pensioners to supplement Article 50 of the Constitution, so that the right to a pension will be constitutionally regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u10	The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United List of Social Democrats, we share, I believe, our common satisfaction that, according to the hard, hard, professional, political, sometimes very controversial debates in the Constitutional Commission and the public, we have come to say, with a large majority or almost unanimous agreement, to the prepared texts of amendments to the Constitution concerning issues of importance for entering the envisaged European integration. At that time, there were not only times when it indicated that the necessary arrangements could be reached, but also periods where they indicated that they might not be. At that time, the public was also justified, when and when not, critical of our work and the little questions we were asking. But I personally believe that the hours of our work, that the hours of our work are part of the expert group, that there are also differences and sometimes some sharper words have helped us to sharpen issues and formulate solutions that, at least in our group of Members, we can claim with relative certainty that they are good, acceptable and that they mean the realization of the principles and objectives that we have set ourselves in this part of the constitutional changes. In our parliamentary group, we have drawn on the principle that it is right to support the possibility of Slovenia joining international integration in the preparation of this part of the amendments. Both the integrations that deal with and implement economic, political and defence issues. We felt that the Constitution should be supplemented in view of the provisions of the constitutional text so far. We agreed that it was right to settle these issues with the greatest possible agreement of all parliamentary parties and that it was worth the effort and effort to find and find a harmonised text. Finally, our view was that it was right that we were trying to make decisions on entry into or possible entry into these links, to find contact with already adopted decisions on the call for referendums for entry into the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, so that there would not be at least a formal distinction and a dispute, or whether these referendums should be informed of what their significance, their consequence and who should decide on them. The solutions prepared are therefore in line with our views. In doing so, we would like to stress the following: it is important that integration into international integration, which means the possibility of transferring the work of the exercise of sovereign rights, or that the national assembly, in a defence relationship, will decide with a specially qualified two-thirds majority. It is such an important issue that must have a constitutional majority. It is important that the National Assembly may decide, in so doing, that the two-thirds majority is not sufficient, but that a referendum is to be drawn up on entering such an international organisation or defence union in the opinion of the majority of the General Assembly. The State of Slovenia has gained independence and has become an independent and independent country based on plebiscite by deciding the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. It is right to allow the possibility of not being so fateful, but nevertheless an important and long-term decision can be taken by referendum. In this regard, we also felt it appropriate to take two concrete decisions on the referendum on the accession to the European Union and to NATO on the basis of such a referendum with the majority will of citizens and citizens of Slovenia - those who will participate in the referendum and will also give valid votes. We are convinced that it is the right way for such referendums to be well prepared and that in the event of a positive response, we do not decide to enter such an international organisation or a defence relationship at the referendum again - so that we do not repeat such referendums. Given that our definition is integration into the European Union, we do not speak of and know about other international organisations so far, even though we have opened up the possibility in the constitutional text that we will also decide on them on the basis of a two-thirds decision of the national assembly and perhaps a referendum. But a determined smog of entry into the European Union, so we also agree that the work of our sovereignty can be transferred to the European Union. In order for the European Union to be able to take decisions and decisions, today those still in force are several years from now different on the basis of the European Constitution, which we are talking about, but also with our cooperation and our consensus, and this is a very important decision. However, Slovenia wishes - in our conviction and it is right to do so - to participate in such links, to be an equal part of the most developed part of Europe, working with its interests and its responsibilities and sharing a common destiny. And that is why it is very important how decisions will be made in the European Union. We were among those who supported the necessary provision in the constitution, which provides for the adoption of a specific law that will address the issue of the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly in the decision-making process in these international organisations in due course in the European Union. In the European Union, the government has a special, stronger position than the National Assembly, and if these relations and the potential for the impact of the National Assembly on decisions, content, decision-making procedures in the European Union are not foreseen, they could be placed in a position where the powers of the legislative body in our country would be substantially limited. We are pleased that in the decision-making process a majority has been accepted, without objection, that Slovenia is based on a permanent and inalienable right to self-determination and that this, whether or not we will specifically write it into the Constitution, also assumes that Slovenia is able, in the event of changed circumstances, to decide whether or not to withdraw from any international organisation or defence association. That we agreed on this in a way that would not presuppose any dispute in who is more, who is less for Slovenian sovereignty, but that this is our common conclusion and definition, while we realized that it would not be necessary to write this moment specifically in the Constitution, not in the form of a procedure, because, even after the explanation attached or which is an integral part of this proposal, it was written that, in principle, after the procedure as it was carried out, when we decided to enter, it would not be wise to prescribe all the details of the procedure, because in any case it is not necessary to be equal. Finally, of the more important things - not to mention all of them - let me say that we are pleased that in the implementation part of the law we will also unquestionably define the importance and method of implementation of the 23rd March referendums on entry into the European Union and then with the desire that citizens and citizens of Slovenia be given the opportunity to take these far-reaching and certainly historic and important decisions on the basis of good information and their own conviction. Let me finish. We are pleased and expect that not only with the votes of the Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats, but with the vast majority of other colleagues and colleagues today we will adopt the constitutional changes envisaged, while at the same time we hope that the work on the proposed constitutional changes will not end with this in the Constitutional Commission. There are still important issues that we need to discuss that are still important issues whose arrangements would benefit from the visibility of our legal system and the regulation of certain issues [[I don't want to mention that I don't build too many.]] and I hope that the climate will be needed, that in peace, without time pressure, we will also discuss these issues and find as much negotiated solutions as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u13	At the National Party, we regret that this debate is taking place today. We are even more sorry, however, because we can assume that the constitutional law will be passed. We estimate that this will destroy the plebiscite will of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have decided unequivocally and with great majority that they want to live in a independent and sovereign country, with their own language, with their own territory and with their own constitutional arrangements. But for starters, allow me to touch the words of the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mr Pahor, who, in his performance, stressed twice "we must guarantee" - is not true! We don't have to do anything. The European Union has never asked us to change the Constitution, no one has asked Slovenia to do so either, because the different members of the European Union still have a constitution similar to the existing Slovenian constitutions; namely, a constitution where general provisions do not define such international integration as they are in any way trying to include in the Slovenian Constitution as the highest legal act a certain part of Slovenian policy. So, first of all, I think we need to know thoroughly and precisely because all those who decide and all those who listen and decide at the referendum will know: there is no need to change the constitution. Today's meeting is solely because part of Slovenian policy has decided to please gentlemen from - on the one hand - the European Union and, on the other hand, NATO. The generosity of Slovenia towards foreigners is demonstrated in today's case in all its dimensions. We have been prepared through the Constitutional Commission, despite the warnings of experts, which, of course, this National Assembly pays dearly, despite their concerns that matters are premature, that more time is needed for all reasons and, more importantly, for all the consequences, that we know them, that we know what all these constitutional changes will mean, which are not as simple as they appear today in the form of a constitutional law. The individual consequences raised by the former Constitutional Judges, mostly by the members of this expert commission today, will be touched. It should be stressed, however, that Slovenia has already adopted the sectoral part of the acquis of the European Union. In 1997 there was no change to the Constitution in that part. Thus, this proves once again that Slovenia has adopted and put primacy over domestic legislation to foreign legislation, the European Union, since 1997, which is evident, after all, from the decision of the Constitutional Court or the opinion of the Constitutional Court requested by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the Association Agreement. This decision of the Constitutional Court makes it clear that Slovenia has nazakons, not its own nazakons, but the nazakons coming from the European Union, and will also have these laws in the future if the European Union adopts them. This was the opinion of the Constitutional Court or the opinion given in 1997. So the argument that there is no other way to approach international integration is not true. And according to our estimate, he's taking the place of cheap demagogy. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that the entire constitutional law and the activities related to the constitutional commission that have been drawn up in recent times, according to our assessment, show the total non-trust of the Slovenian policy that is prepared, solely so that in Brussels, Strasbourg or elsewhere, it will come across a positive shift in the head of any gentleman from abroad, willing to change not only the laws but what is above the law; that is, the Constitution. The highest legal order, which we proudly said years ago, is a charter that represents a kind of stiffness and because it requires a very large quorum majority to change it, represents a guardian of the rule of law or constitutional order in our country. But now, quickly, unaware of the consequences for the future, the National Assembly - and this today - will be able to say yes, without the votes of the Slovenian National Party. It also makes sense in this context, i.e. the context of the presentation of the parliamentary groups, to point out that Slovenia has already passed a certain part of its sovereign rights on several occasions to certain international organisations - let it be to the Hague court, let it be to the Roman court - and that these are not new cases and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the whole part of Slovenian policy know that this has happened in the past. But unlike the moment at which we are now, this has happened without changes to the constitution, for which we can even assess at this point that this whole circus, which is now taking place, is a very expensive circus, driven into the creation of a public opinion, because every day reports about the work of the Constitutional Commission, about disputes between judges, whether the comma will be here or will be the comma there. And that it wants to present itself to Slovenian citizens, Slovenes; and the Slovenians need and, in fact, the existence of Slovenia in the EU so that we will not be able to survive without the EU at all. As I said, the Constitution clearly expresses the and written will of Slovenian citizens and citizens found on the plebiscite, not so far back, not within a period of time when relations were still different, but in modern times. We are also convinced that, in the beginning, I have stressed that, in addition to all this, the timing of developments which the Slovenian government is obviously tempting with the help of government and unfortunately also non-governmental politicians, Members, is extremely incorrect. Otherwise, we should not leave the referendum of the instrument for which the referendum was established. Therefore, by means of the referendum, it is essential to establish whether citizens and citizens are to join Slovenia in certain integrations. And only on the basis of the response given by the referendum - the referendum will be held on 23 March, a few days later a well-known referendum outcome - will join the constitutional change. No! No! Slovenian policy has chosen a different path. We will not wait for the outcome of the referendum, we will not know whether citizens are connected to such integrations, which take our territory, financial resources, the military and everything we have so far sovereign, but will today, with a two-thirds majority, adopt and legislate Slovenia's pre-intention and if it is legal, people at the referendum will not be able to influence it. At this rate, it seems to us that there is a lack of intention and a lack of respect for legislation by Members and Members and by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, at the initial stage, sent the draft amendments to the Constitution into the procedure. We must be aware that the ideal design for today's treatment was created in the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As part of the Group's speech, I will touch on the most important areas - areas of constitutional law or amendments. If I mentioned the word "referendum" earlier, I will now proceed with it. Those who have looked more closely at the material, especially the debates within the Constitutional Commission, have come to realize that people are also being played in this area or will be played in this area. It is very simple to say that if people decide at the referendum that they no longer want to live in Slovenia, in their own country, a territorially united country, a country with their own government, a country with their own parliament; therefore, if people decide to join the EU and NATO, then such a referendum should no longer be repeated. But if citizens say, "No, we are Slovenians and Slovenians want to stay, we want to stay in a single country, with single money, with separate money, with our own territory," but this referendum can happen again in 3, 6, maybe a year. But is it not disputed that, in the case of a kind of referendum outcome, we will no longer be able to repeat the referendum? In the case of a different type of referendum outcome - and as a surprise this referendum outcome must be one that does not please the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - but the referendum can be repeated. I think it's unprecedented, even in history under the leadership of Liberal Democracy. And also around the referendum, another area that we think or assess in the Slovenian National Party is that it shows the attitude of citizens and citizens. This is a change in the referendum rules. There is a decision by the Constitutional Court, or in connection with electoral matters, which says that in the electoral year, electoral matters do not change. Although that decision is really linked to chapter two, these are electoral matters. In fact, referendums are not that far from electoral work. This National Assembly, this state policy, which, of course, rules this country, has decided to change the referendum rules within 30 days. And even today, no one can know with certainty what the referendums will be like, what will be the way to determine the referendum outcome, despite the fact that all the agitation and advertising then the military union and the EU are in full swing. The rules of the game are not yet in place. The Constitutional Court said that the rules must be clear within the framework of electoral legislation a year earlier. But, of course, because everyone is in such a hurry, whether it's in NATO or whether it's in other integrations, nobody cares anymore. That we do not know or know how it will be decided and how the votes will be summed up, but in particular that the citizens and citizens do not know. So those besides us who represent that group, consisting of more than 99% of the largest electoral mass, the referendum mass, don't know what the referendum procedures are. I also personally assess, within the National Party, that this is very irresponsible by Members and Members to sign a referendum, but we do not tell what the rules are. And the last one, around the referendum. It would make sense, given that we know the history of this National Assembly, that we know the history of the work of the Government of Slovenia and that we know the history of the work of the Liberal Democracy and that since 1994, Slovenian legislation has been changing at a high rate and that, in essence, every law in its own explanation has been written that, under the EU Directive, namely, the European Union, there has been a request for amendment. I want to say that Slovenian policy is aware that it will have to ask citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia someday whether they are to join the EU. In particular, however, it would have made sense that the referendum would have been held long ago to avoid all these costs incurred when EU legislation was adopted at the possible negative outcome of the referendum. Negative, of course, for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that this would mean a positive outcome for people to decide that they want to continue living in their own and sovereign country. Another area affected by the proposed constitutional changes is constitutional regulation. In the Republic of Slovenia, we have always said proudly that we have tried to suppress in the highest legal act any form of major political corruption, especially when we have divided the decision. We have divided the decision into three areas: the executive branch of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the legislative branch of the government, which is Parliament - and, as you know, we, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the question and initiative once a month, cannot ask; we cannot demand anything from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the separation is crystal clear: they have their powers, we have our own. However, there is a third branch of government, namely the judiciary, the branch of authority, which is separate and for which you have always read to the Slovenian National Party when it has tried to make this branch of power more effective by limiting the permanent judicial mandate and making it clear that it interferes with the authorities. On the contrary, as you do today! Today you are trying to destroy these boundaries between the individual branches of power with this constitutional law! When even the government of the Republic of Slovenia [[I'll quote]] It states in its document that "it seems entirely irrelevant for Parliament, as the legislative branch of the authorities, to decide on acts from the international field". It states that they "consider this unnecessary because the government comes from a parliamentary majority and therefore its views and political interests are largely the same as those of the parliamentary majority". This, in other words, would mean that it would be very reasonable to ask whether we need this national assembly at all. Or it would not be much cheaper for the country, probably for the nerves of people in front of TVs, to call parliament only government and then dissolve. For if we come from this dictatorship and from the mindset of the Slovenian government, then we do not need the Slovenian Parliament. For once the government is formed, it will know all things for itself, how and what to do. A document from the Slovenian government, and of course we cannot agree with this in the National Party. We believe in parliamentary democracy and believe in the existence and survival of the existing constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. We estimate that would be a mistake. And even though we are opponents of the loss of Slovenia in the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately the only one or the only ones, we have also tabled an amendment to the proposal for constitutional amendments, a proposal which would, to some extent, if we were to lose everything, at least retain something. An amendment setting out some kind of transparency that would allow citizens and states2222 citizens of this country to influence individual decisions under the EU's jurisdiction, which will tange Slovenian citizens and citizens. So that in fact people would retain a few possibilities to influence politics. Of course, the amendment, which says that the government must obtain a prior agreement of the National Assembly on individual matters and that these rules of the game are defined by specific law, the Constitutional Commission did not get the necessary number of votes or, as a result of the obstruction of the Slovenian National Party, no Member has been found to support the proposal for constitutional changes, so this amendment and our new idea, or not a new idea, but this vision of the Slovenian National Party that part of sovereignty is still in our own hands, in spite of the entry into the EU, has not just emerged in constitutional law. If I continue with the third substantive area. If we have somehow processed the referendum, played the referendum and presented the referendum as people's decisions, and if we have said that, of course, this decision is not in the hands of the people, because the policy has already decided, because it changes the instructions if we have touched the areas of the loss of the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia and thus tried to prevent the negative and undemocratic link between the individual branches of the authorities and thus destroy transparency, it is necessary to touch the third chapter, this is the extradition of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Although it may appear at first sight that the change in the Constitution in this area is very clear, it is necessary to define that this is one of those changes which binds and brings about a number of changes in judicial proceedings, from the purely bare fact that Slovenians and Slovenians will have to go to foreign courts if European gentlemen want to do so, there is also a ban on double-judgment in the same case and on procedural matters in relation to criminal immunity. It is likely that this change of constitution carries a number of other things, but we will learn this when it is unfortunately too late and when we accept these constitutional changes and when we will all be patted on the hands. The last part of my performance, because members of the national party will talk about individual changes, touches on the proposal of the Slovenian Government of Liberal Democracy and that part of the Members who support it, in which we will legitimize the sale or loss of Slovenian territory. The fact is that this constitutional amendment, which refers to the loss of territory and to the right, to the exclusive right of Slovenia over ownership, has to be stressed that there has been at least a change in that change, as if it were the least significant change. Of course, we estimate that this is not the case and that we should talk more and more about this, but practice in the context of these constitutional changes clearly indicates that this desire is not in the Slovenian political space. Article 3 of the proposal for constitutional amendments reads as follows: "Foreigners may acquire property rights on immovable property under the conditions laid down in the law or in the international contract ratified by the National Assembly." As was the case, of course, reciprocity or reciprocity has been omitted in the new text. So far, we've had Slovenians written reciprocity. So if we were able to afford Slovenians in foreign countries, those foreign countries to buy real estate, which is of course rare because of our standard, they could also afford it with us. After the new one, it won't happen again. In short, even those nations, citizens of those countries that have a ban on buying their own territory, such as the Danes, who have banned buying their holiday homes, will be able to come to Slovenia and we will not be able to buy them. I don't think that's right either. I think all constitutional changes are going in the wrong direction. That these constitutional changes should not be accepted by Slovenian policy, that if you already assess that it is so important to join the European Union, then at least to protect ourselves. I believe you're unable to find protection on your own. You've proven this in the last ten years. However, it is sad that the protection offered to you by the Slovenian National Party only in this term last year, the takeover law and the anti-competition law, which they had exclusively, both laws, one goal, is to create this kind of economic picture in our country, which will be competitive at the time of entry into the EU, you have rejected. Despite the fact that the proposals for laws we have offered you for discussion have been summarised under the German law system. No, you said no because at the beginning they did not say that they were written on the basis of a directive of the European Union, but they initially said that the Slovenian national party was trying to create a strong economy. You said no, and there was no treatment. At that time, the Minister of Economy even declared that the national interest of the State of tax relief for foreigners. In the meantime, we see and in Slovenia we create different funds to promote less developed areas, funds to help economic operators in difficulty, and we allocate 2, 3, 4 million Slovenian tolars to these funds, which means zero, and these things do not want to help. If, of course, we today accept this constitutional material, the novelty, and if you continue with the propaganda machine in which Slovenians and Slovenes convince us how perfectly we will be doing within the European Union, how our standard now allows each of us to buy real estate anywhere in Europe, we will indeed come to Europe, and the question is how long we will survive there. In the Slovenian National Party, we are, of course, afraid that government policy will succeed. We are pleased, however, that they will not succeed with the assistance of Members of the Slovenian National Party. We will oppose the proposal for constitutional changes, as we will continue to oppose the loss of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Slovenia's integration into the European Union is our country's first foreign policy objective. This unique historical act must be incorporated into the Slovenian Constitution, and this was also the main reason for the constitutional review in this mandate of the National Assembly. The European Union is a strong union of countries based on democratic principles and respect for human rights, while at the same time the European Union is the integration to which we will transfer part of our sovereign rights. This fact must be enshrined in our Constitution as much as possible. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we support our country's entry into the European Union, but we do not agree that this fact is written into our Constitution in an abstract way. We oppose the possibility of transferring Slovenian sovereignty to an unspecified international organisation or, worse still, an unspecified security structure. A few other issues regarding the choice of approach, a concrete, abstract or combined approach. Since 1992, since the Maastricht Treaty, the Constitution has been amended by Germany, France, Austria, Finland, Sweden, Hungary and Poland as a result of the European Union. Of these, only the last, i.e. Poland, adopted an abstract approach in 1997; all other countries have chosen a concrete or combined approach. If the ruling elite believes that all these countries, namely Germany, France, Austria, Finland, Sweden and Hungary, have made a mistake to say this, and say, specifically, government representatives, why we are smarter when we miss a mention of the European Union in the constitution, the mention that we stand for. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are not ashamed or afraid of the European Union, we see an opportunity and a future in it. That is why we wanted a concrete approach to be taken and the European Union to be specifically enshrined in the Constitution. Unfortunately, they've made a different decision, and I think it's wrong, and we'll all regret it. It also seems reckless to us that we are writing down defence alliances in the Constitution today, when it is not even clear whether our citizens and citizens agree. Constitutional changes should wait until the referendum on the European Union and NATO, when we have a clear response and thus provide a realistic basis for the adoption or non-acceptance of constitutional changes governing the transfer of the work of sovereign rights and the conclusion of defence alliances. We are convinced that the procedure for amending the Constitution with regard to the so-called European Article must be waited. It seems even more unacceptable for us to change the rules of the game during the referendum, which has already begun. We're in a situation where tomorrow we're going to vote, and today we don't even know what rules we're going to vote on. And it is precisely the new referendum rules that have become the main objective of today's session. More and more so, on March 23rd, the main reason for today's session is. It is sad that we are not changing the Constitution today because of the so-called European Article, because of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, but we are gathered here today to amend or adapt the referendum rules in any way we wish to bring under the roof a referendum on NATO. We should not have a guide to constitutional change on March 23, 2003, but on May 1st, 2004. Members of the Young Slovenia Party do not agree with this approach to the amendments to our country's highest act, so we will not support the constitutional changes today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group of Members, I should like to express the awareness that we have repeatedly stressed that changes to the Constitution are necessary before deciding to join the European Union. If we decide on this and if citizens and citizens decide on this step at the referendum, then of course we need to say in advance how this decision is to be made, how the future laws and rules of the European Union will apply to us, what the relationship between our country's parliament and our government, how these two institutions should coordinate their opinions and represent themselves in the European Union and so on. Now we have before us a proposal for these urgent constitutional changes if we want to remain a legal state and if we want this step, if the voters choose to do it, we will do it as we need to. In doing so, of course, I express first the satisfaction of the Group of Members on two things: firstly, that we have considered the so-called European Articles separately from other amendments to the Constitution, from other proposals, and that the government coalition has not insisted on the condition that individual solutions to the European Articles can be implemented and taken only in the light of other decisions proposed by the Government. This is the success of all of us, that we were able to separate things and really only dedicated ourselves to the European article. If we did not succeed at the first step, I am afraid that we would not be where we are today, this is in the proposal that has received high support from the Constitutional Commission. We are not satisfied, however, that there has been an abstract approach. We believe that the combined approach proposed by the section was better. It would be easier to solve the kind of dilemma that remains open in some way, but we did not insist on our request at the expense of finding a high degree of consensus. The Section, and in so doing to thank them on behalf of the Group of Members, has largely compensated them with new proposals and new amendments and complemented them, of course, on the Constitutional Commission. The Social Democratic Party, together with New Slovenia, has proposed a coalition of Slovenia in the text of Article 3.A, that is to say, this basic text, which speaks of the way in, the work of the national assembly and the government, the impact of European legislation on our legal order, two amendments, namely: "the first amendment, which is also supposed to talk about a possible exit and how this exit should be implemented. Our experiences, which do not span more than 13, 14 years, tell us how important it is to have a little closed door if something is complicated in the future, and to maintain some way, or to define it now, if any such matters were to occur in the future, on the basis of which the Slovenians would decide to step out, so of course it would be appropriate to define it. The Section opposed this and so did the majority of the Constitutional Commission. Again, we did not want to block the work and did not insist on this amendment. However, I must say that this amendment has achieved a great deal. We have reached a debate on our sovereignty and the conclusion that Slovenia remains permanently free and in this respect its right to self-determination is irresistible and permanent. Thus, on the basis of this amendment and this debate in an official explanation accompanying this constitutional law, I quote: "In the debate, both the expert group and the constitutional commission fully agreed that Slovenia's exit from any international organisation to which Slovenia has transferred the exercise of the work of sovereign rights is always possible on the basis of a constitutionally defined and internationally recognised right to self-determination and on the basis of the constitutionally declared fact that Slovenia is a sovereign state that can transfer its sovereign rights, which it has partially transferred to enforcement to a particular international organisation, by its own democratic decision, always take back into its own implementation." This is also necessary for our electorate, for all those who will go to the referendum, all those who still have the fear of joining a federation that we had 12 years ago. Of course, there was a lot of debate on our second amendment on the Constitutional Commission, the amendment of the Slovenian Coalition, which proposed that the Slovenian Government should, however, inform the National Assembly of all drafts and proposals for laws that are being prepared in Brussels, that, as the original proposal was drafted, it is not necessary to take into account the opinions that our National Assembly has taken on these proposals. Our amendment stated that the government must take account of these opinions of the National Assembly, because in Brussels, in the European Union, the government has a greater role to play in the drafting and adoption of European laws than national parliaments. We are pleased that this is our idea, that this amendment has been fully supported by the expert group and that this amendment has also been fully supported by the Constitutional Commission. Thus, we now have the possibility, by law following this provision, to determine exactly how these rules of the game apply, namely, the rules of the game between the national assembly and our government in the adoption of European laws. Let me finish. It has certainly proved that this National Assembly, after many problems, is at least at the level of the Constitutional Commission, capable of constructive debate. I hope that this way of working will also apply to other constitutional changes that await us. Of course, the Socialists' parliamentary group supports the proposal that we now have on the table. With this change in our Constitution, we open one of the many doors to the European Union, one of the many doors to society of the countries to which it applies, to quote the first paragraph of the new Article 3a, which says: "... those countries which are based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u19	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! Today's constitutional changes are accepted with mixed feelings, as we are transferring part of our sovereignty, which we have enjoyed just over a decade, to other organisations. However, this historic opportunity to join these organizations must not be delayed. As the old Latin rule says, "temper mutem tu," it's called, "times change," and the second part is, "and we're changing into them." That is why I think that this approach, or this transfer of some part of our sovereignty to international organisations, is not only correct but also necessary. So we could say today, Eureka, we have European articles. We have accepted them pluralistically, as in a democratic state, and thus, through these new articles, have given our citizens the opportunity to make final decisions on these proposals. These articles, inter alia, maintain a balance between the National Assembly and the Government, are balanced. European articles were born quite a good time. If memory doesn't fool me, on 26 July 2001, when the government sent proposals to the National Assembly to amend the Constitution, it was at about 20 points. Of course, the European articles had the advantage and we started to consider them first, with the help of an expert group that counted more than 20 members. The work was intense and also sometimes hard, although at the beginning we were very much hunting about how things were going to work. It is not easy to change the Constitution, but it is a basic legal and political document of one country, and if citizens want to change it, this work must be done with respect, such as texts, taking into account the legal traditions, experience and needs of citizens. Undoubtedly, this is true of the articles we are talking about today. As has already been said, the articles before you are part of a joint work, and I must confirm that there was a lot of giving and taking. That's the only way to get the final result. The great commitment of all members of the section and of course of the members of the Constitutional Commission must be stressed. Although we were not impressed by the abstract approach in our parliamentary group, of two possible approaches, one is concrete and the other is mixed, combined. The concrete one should now, from our point of view, appoint both organisations, so that citizens know that we currently have only two organisations on the table to which we want to transfer part of our sovereignty. In the spirit of political pluralism, we have adopted an abstract approach. We are convinced that citizens should accept this in good faith, and because they have a choice of decision after the referendum, I think it will be possible. We have also advocated that these articles should also include the right to exit, that is to say that we take the transferred rights forward in the future if the Slovenian national interests so require. However, we have adopted the opinion of the expert commission that this article is not necessary, although our view was that this kind of article, called 'escape clause', which is known in international treaties, was politically important. Why is that? As I have said, times are changing, and so is the European Union, and then they are changing, and in these tense times, we don't know which direction the development is going to go and when. At that time, international law will probably be accepted, and since Slovenians already have experience with the Federation in the former Yugoslavia, this must somehow alert us to sensitivity and readiness to respond to change. However, these were only political arguments, but not legal, so we accepted the fact that we may not need such an article if we believe what is written down, and now I read from the comment of the Constitution of Slovenia: "The Slovenian Constitutional Doctrine, the rights of the people to self-determination also assume the feasible possibility of regaining lost or transferred state sovereignty, in a comprehensive and partial way, back to their own country, for example, which was already done in Slovenia and succeeded in 1991." At the time of the adoption of these articles by our Constitution, Slovenian citizens are given the opportunity to secure the entry of our country into the European Union and NATO at the referendum on 23 March. In the New Slovenia Group, we wish to congratulate all those who, with hard work, cooperation and tolerance, have made it possible to adopt the European articles that we have before us. The New Slovenia Group strongly supports these changes, which will be a good Kazomer to join the European Union and NATO, and will enable our citizens to make decisions at both the referendums that we will have on 23 March. Once again, we congratulate and hope that everything will turn out the way we want at the end of this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u21	Respectable. We conclude the 10-year period of preparation and efforts of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of which parties were in power during this period, so that Slovenia becomes a capable country that could join the countries of the European Union and that it could accede to the Washington Treaty or simply NATO. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a necessary step, or the fulfilment of the necessary condition for the final fulfilment of this objective, and the entry into the European Union and then accession to the Treaty, prepared and proposed constitutional changes already in 2001. Of course, the National Assembly has adopted this initiative, accompanying all activities, and has also adopted legislation which is a condition that we are comparable, that we are capable of inclusion, and that we have also adopted legislation. Of course, a number of necessary additions and amendments were made at that time, and so was Article 3a, which mainly regulates what has proved necessary. If there was also a need for a referendum in this process of constitutional change debate and it was clear at that time that there were other options, because we did not have the conditions to sign any other referendum as consultative, we have done so, of course, and this Article 3a deals with this issue now. We are pleased that we have thus resolved those concerns which have been and which have in some way suggested that invalid votes in the referendum may benefit those who do not want the referendum to succeed or that the results in the referendum are positive, as well as those who have claimed that any way they wish to provide a follow-up, confirmatory referendum by this referendum. We have, of course, settled these questions. This is, in our view, very important. What is even more important or even more important, and in our view we will have to adopt a satisfactory law at this stage, of course, because this fourth paragraph of Article 3a speaks when we regulate the relationship between the government and the national assembly of course. Since it is clear that the National Assembly is losing part of its powers by entering the European Union and that the government is appearing as a legislator, this regime is still important and sensitive. Certainly, this issue has not been fully absorbed in this period and not all things can be foreseen, nor is it because the European Constitution is being so shaped. I believe that the Republic of Slovenia will, through its representatives in the Convention and also actively participate in the drafting of individual articles, and that this process will be achieved in order to allow Slovenia to participate, to co-form certain policies within the framework of the European Union, and in particular to ensure that a role can be ensured at this time, given that there are still large and small countries in the European Union, with different influences, in the context of the new Constitution and in the adoption of the law on government-level relations, this will be arranged in a way that Slovenia's voice will hear and that the specifics and requirements to which the National Assembly will take positions and then the government will also advocate in the relevant procedures that it will be in favour of Slovenia. We are pleased that the process of joining the European Union and bringing NATO closer together is ending with constitutional changes. It must be made clear, however, that the ambition we have is greater and that we want other proposals for constitutional changes to be addressed and accepted as soon as possible by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We will now move to a debate and a decision on the articles and a section of the proposal for a constitutional law. First, I am putting Article 1 into the debate. Allow us, before we begin the discussion, to warn you again, as you have probably already read, on page 2 of the additional report, the Constitutional Commission warns us and asks us, in the partial report there was a typographical error when the word "votes" in Article 1, paragraph 1, of the new Article 3a of the Constitution in the second line for the word "most" fell out. The Constitutional Commission asks the National Assembly to take this into account in the debate and in the voting and to include the missing word in Article 3a of the Constitution. The text of the first paragraph of the proposed new Article 3a reads as follows: "Slovenia may, by an international treaty ratified by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority," this word is missing, "the votes of all Members may transfer the exercise of the work of sovereign rights to international organisations based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy and the principles of the rule of law, and enter into a defence relationship with countries based on respect for these values." With such a complementary proposal for a constitutional law in the first paragraph, with the word 'votes' for the word'most', I open the debate on Article 1. Mr Aurelio Juri made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u23	Thank you, Vice President. I notified myself because, in the context of the presentation of the opinions of the groups of Members, it was made by those who had announced that they would not vote in favour of this amendment, some statements which led me to look again at the text of the proposed amendments. And I was just wondering, do we have any different materials? First of all, when we adopt such a solution, we do not decide, we do not determine the entry into the European Union and NATO. It is right that our public knows because today we are being followed. We only determine the procedure to be followed if, in this particular case, decisions will fall and this will be positive. Slovenia may, by means of an international treaty ratified by a national assembly with a two-thirds majority of all Members, transfer the exercise of the work of sovereign rights. So we're determining this option. Of course, if we do this, we will decide at the referendum. Thus, it is not disputed from this title, and I welcome that the Constitutional Commission has decided on such an approach and such a dictatorship. I understand those who would not like to enter the European Union or NATO to prevent such an arrangement, because tomorrow, if not adopted, they could oppose the interpretation of the Constitution by such an approach. I don't understand those who advocate entry into the European Union, but maybe they don't join NATO to deny the same solution because they can either be in here or neither. I, as you know, don't support the entry into NATO, but I don't see any obstacles in this definition. I could even say tomorrow that, according to my interpretation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, I can still say that then it does not meet these criteria, because it has several members that are problematic from this point of view. That is why I think this dictatorship is entirely appropriate and I will vote for it. I also welcome the approach to the other articles, which I will not advertise on the contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I invite all Members and Members to the Chamber. Before we move to a decision, I would like to remind you that in accordance with Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a two-thirds majority of all Members, 60 or more, are required to adopt a constitutional law. The same applies to the adoption of an individual article or section. Therefore, allow us to wait for a moment longer for Members and Members to come to the voting room, who are currently in the vicinity. Thank you very much. Since Mr Jelinčič wants to explain his voice, I think the others will be joining us at this time. Mr. Jelinčič noble, please explain your voice. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not already agree with the basic concepts and purposes of constitutional change, because these changes will emerge from the sovereign countries and they will put us somewhere in such a strange confederacy from which we came out in 1991. The Slovenian national party will vote, and I personally will vote against the adoption of this Article. The very reasons for the so-called expert commission are strange and the interpretation of the changes is mixed with the magnetograms of the work or the functioning of the commission. The fact is that they have not reached any concrete justification for amending any article of the Constitution, especially the one we are talking about now. The fact is, we'll only have our sovereignty on paper. The sovereignty of the Republic of Slovenia will be no more. They will do everything in Europe, and as I know our policies, they will only nod. The fact is that it is necessary to clarify the whole matter, and yet another crucial question is how much of the fees will be paid by the members of this so-called expert commission. Maybe it's also that they've met so many times, the reason that they've met so many times, met together, and actually wrote a scribble on the front page of which says "partial report on the preparation of the proposal..." and so on. With regard to these great experts, it would ultimately make sense for Mr Self-Occlusion to advise Mr Krivic, the sole interpreter of the Constitution, that he should take a judicial examination once and for all. In short, I will not support this change or any other. The fact is that changes to the Constitution are not necessary in order not to need them, but in particular that these changes of the Constitution in principle ensure the peaceful and subtly functioning of Slovenian politics in the European Union, and do not in any way concern the welfare of the Slovenian State and of Slovenian citizens and of the Slovenian people.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr Barovic. I respectfully ask that you refrain from using insulting words in your speech, because marking the work of the expert committee as a succinct is an offensive assessment of the work of the expert committee. Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. Article 1, which we will decide on, I will not support. I want to say it loud and clear to those who want to hear the following. I am the co-author of the amendment to the proposal for a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 3a, which was submitted by the Slovenian National Party in good faith, so that a new fourth paragraph of our proposal would help to preserve sovereignty, autonomy, and, above all, on this, believe me, I am well-educated, still in existence and in force of this Parliament. I'd like to warn everyone again. If this amendment had been adopted, which spoke of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had proposed such acts in international organisations and had previously obtained the consent of this national assembly, that is what we wanted. Everything the government in Europe is going to decide in the European Union that this national assembly, we, the elected Members of the people, should give our consent. Of course, we are also citizens. Dear colleagues and colleagues, once again, in the European Union, the Council of Europe shall decide and have legislative and executive power. Only government, ministers, participates in the Council of Europe. He's not with us anymore. He's not with us anymore. If this amendment were to be adopted, all the decisions made by the Ministers in the Council of Europe would be confirmed and agreed with. But because this amendment has not been adopted, we will, remember, all of us here, lose a lot of autonomy and decision-making rights. That is why I will not support Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u29	Despite the approach taken by the Constitutional Commission on the proposal of experts, i.e. an abstract approach, we all know that the new Article 3a, a new article that you are trying to make and incorporate into the general provisions of the Constitution, is talking about the European Union and talking about NATO. So these two international organisations are hiding behind the first paragraph of Article 3a. It is important to point out, however, that it is in Slovenia that the Slovenians, according to our assessment, should have so much wisdom to be aware and to remember their history that the Constitution of the European Union, which is currently being written, is the highest legal act that does not exist at all, which we do not even know yet, whether it has international legal personality and what this will entail, is very similar to the end of the former SFRJ, and is one of the reasons for the collapse of the former common country, precisely because everything has been decided from one and the same centre, that is Belgrade. Today, Members and Members of Parliament decide that all of this will also take place at the same centre in Brussels. And history should teach us, including our discussions on coherent regional development within our country, where we are all very much and widely speaking, how we are against Slovenia's central development and, on the other hand, today's proposal by the Constitutional Commission, on the basis of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide everything in Brussels. We oppose this in the national party. We hope that there is another opposition in the National Assembly, that we will find something that we will want to have a decision centre in our country and that there will be more of these centres in our country. I will not support the new Article 3a myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Cukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to explain my voice in the title that we are not now deciding to join the European Union, but only the rules of the game; so if the voters at the referendum decide to enter, we will know what that means and what it looks like. We don't decide to come in, that's the first. Second, those who have a very great fear of Europe and fear the loss of sovereignty. Gentlemen, we will have just as much sovereignty as Germany, France and so on. Do you think these countries would enter the European Union if they knew, or if they thought they would lose their sovereignty? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of Article 1 of the Constitutional Law for the following reasons. Firstly, because it has already been said here at least twice that at this time the National Assembly, as amended by Article 3a, does not transfer sovereign rights to international organisations, gives and describes only a procedure for the possibility of transferring the work of sovereign rights to international organisations. In the second paragraph of this Article, however, it clearly states that for such a transfer of the exercise of sovereign rights, it may request the people at the referendum. It also gives full legitimacy in the second paragraph that their decision, electorate and electorate will be binding on the national assembly as well as other bodies for the referendum on 23 March. Thirdly, the National Assembly will be informed, on the basis of the content of paragraph 4 of this Article, of the functioning of the Government and will also adopt positions binding on the functioning of the Government in international organisations on the basis of a law to be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. It is said that no transfer shall be made without a decision of Parliament or of the electorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Jaša Zląbec Lukič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u35	I will vote in favour, because I do not see anywhere else than in the European Union, although we are speaking abstractly now, another space for Slovenia, but I certainly have no illusions that small members will have the same weight as larger members. I have no illusion that the voice of France or the voice of Germany will be as valuable as the voice of some Slovenian policy in Europe. The little ones were small. Small ones can be smarter, more innovative, but they stay smaller. They take precedence over the great ones in that they are grossly clumsy, that sometimes they act foolishly in their greatness, and act immaturely, irresponsiblely. We can see all of this in person these last few weeks. Otherwise, what matters isn't going to change. Only that the rules of the game may be a little more transparent, but in the extreme context, the one who is stronger will dictate the rules of the game. Don't have illusions where there's a cruel reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We've heard explanations of vote before the decision. I hope that in front of the hall we are all who would like to vote today. There is no delay in taking a decision on Article 1 of the Constitutional Law. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 8. [[71 members voted in favour.]] [[Against the 8 members.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. I'm putting Article 2 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Next, Mr. Jelinčič the Noble and then Mr. Barovic. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I don't know how meaningful it is to speak at all, because the voting machine is voting, the cylindrical voter is promoting Slovenian sovereignty and will also be calling Article 2 and so the text of Article 47 will change to the extent that Slovenian citizens can be handed over to anyone, any European country that seems to be able to process a Slovenian citizen. Moreover, if the Slovenian court of Slovenian citizens exempts him, the foreigners will nevertheless be able to call him again for trial and even condemn him, which is essentially contrary to and at odds with general legal practice. However, it does not matter to us, for Slovenian citizens this country cares very little anyway, it doesn't care what is going on. If she didn't care, then those culprits for all the "pigs" and thieving we see every day, because the newspapers are full of them, they'd lock those people up and remove them from their positions for at least a little while, so they wouldn't hurt any further. No, these people get even better and even bigger positions, and then to blur out these positions in public, it is necessary to adopt such articles and changes to the Constitution. I am sure that this is just that it will continue to happen, that smoking thieves will now also be tried in Western Europe, Slovenian, of course, which gentlemen, big thieves, big drug dealers, guns and I don't know what else, they will continue to walk well, let it be mayors, former mayors, former mayors, former prosecutors, current procurators and I don't know what. I will vote against the amendment of this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Article 47 of the Constitution states: "Citizens of Slovenia shall not be allowed to extradite to a foreign country." The new proposal, which we will decide on, says: "The citizens of Slovenia are not allowed to surrender or surrender unless the obligation to execute or surrender from an international treaty! And so on. The fundamental difference, once again, I lay down to everyone, a fundamental difference has taken place at this moment. And there's something else I want to know. I wonder if anyone can answer that question. We are modifying Article 47 of the Constitution. We hereby commit ourselves to surrender the Slovenians to foreign and foreign courts on the basis of some international treaties, for God's sake. Now we're putting it in the constitution. Whether I am wrong to say that Slovenia is already doing this or has previously linked itself to the Hague court, there was no sudden need for constitutional change. Slovenia, if I am not mistaken, I say this, if I am sorry, it is already doing so without a change of constitution. Ask yourself that, too. And now, suddenly, a change of constitution is needed. Thank you. I will not support this article, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. If it is not clear to anyone, it would be good for all Members who have an explanation of this Article to say that it is indeed already an existing treaty with the international criminal court, but that it is a matter for the future, if we decide to join the European Union, also for the possibility of extradition to another country. In fact, it's a two-way option. I would like to tell you an example that I had, or that I ran into about 15 years ago, when I was a doctor in Ljubljana and on duty, we visited a girl who was also shot in the field, who was also previously abused. It was found that the murder was paid. Soon it became clear that it was a Hungarian citizen. I would very much like to see that it is possible with such a contract, because Hungary will also be in the European Union, to get this criminal before our court and to judge him here. And that would possibly enable us to do so with the European Union. Not only do we hand the accused or the suspects to a trial in a country where he caused a serious crime, but we can get him here too. I think this is extremely important for the preservation of the rule of law. We are a small country, the borders will be transitional, it will go without control on all sides, and if there was no provision, then any thief from Jesenic could escape to Koroška and not get it back.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u42	Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u43	Can this be taken into account as an explanation of the voice? Have you come to this stage, Madam President? Then I ask for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 2. We'll move on to a decision. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u45	Thank you. The explanation of vote is mainly because I do not want to start the debate because I believe that each of us knows how to vote at this point. Let it be at my own discretion, which I believe is very few in this National Assembly, to be a political dictatorship, which I believe is a great deal. I estimate that by adopting Article 2 you will destroy all the strong and until now the traditional guarantee of the country after the protection of its citizens. On the other hand, it is all those who will support you that you have always advocated the Slovenian judiciary. It means you're on opposite shores right now. On the one hand, you show zero confidence in the Slovenian judiciary, in our criminal justice system, and of course you do not want to improve this system in any way. I think that this is an extremely great diversion and I think that our country, regardless of where it is going to be, should be offered an autonomous judiciary and should not be subject to different judicial practices abroad arising from different traditional frameworks and obstacles. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the voice. We can therefore move on to a decision on Article 2 of the Constitutional Law proposal. We're voting. There are 78 of us present, 70 votes against 7. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. I'm putting Article 3 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on Article 3 of the Constitutional Law proposal. Explanation of the vote, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. With the same purpose as a respected colleague, Mr Pece, I will not open the debate. Let me just say that I will oppose this article, if I repeat its dictatorship: "Foreigners may acquire property rights on immovable property under the conditions laid down in the law or in the international contract ratified by the National Assembly." What will this law be, what will this international treaty be, what will it be like? The question is whether it is right for us to find out later on whether it would be right if we knew them today. I'm going to go against this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr. Jelinčič noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. I too will vote against the amendment of Article 68 of the Constitution. I think that the Republic of Slovenia, under the leadership of Mr Drnovska, has already divided enough territory, both the Roman Catholic Church and foreigners, into descendants of the feudal order. I don't think it makes sense that we sell what is left of Slovenia for cheap money to foreigners. Those who think that Slovenia will not come into foreign hands are damn wrong. Soon. Slovenia is an island in Europe with 22,000 species of plant and animal species. We're actually a botanical garden. And what is being bought today? They're buying valuables today. And we won't have enough money for these precious Slovenians. Foreigners have enough. There's a lot of money around the world, and they're going to put it where they're going to judge it to be the best and the best. With the amendment of this article, you will be allowed to sell out that little Slovenia as it is owned by us. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u51	Property rights over real estate are a kind of status right that we renounce at these moments. However, this has not been abandoned by some members of the European Union. Some members of the European Union have still reserved the exclusive right to property. And why do we, who have one small country within the European Union, so generously say and renounce this exclusive right? I think it would make sense to hear from the proposaler why none of us are asking for this. We'll sell out our territory, change our constitution. But why? Since we have not received any developments or developments within the framework of the Constitutional Commission's response to this and because, according to our assessment, this is completely meaningless and meaningless and long-term harm to our development, not only to the development of the country, but mainly to the development of the Slovenians and Slovenians, I will also oppose this proposal for amendments made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Explanations to the vote Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u53	An explanation of vote is not a time for controversy, but it is possible to say in explanation of vote what may not have been clear throughout all the discussions. This dictatorship does not allow anyone to sell anything without reservation, but obliges the National Assembly to lay down the conditions for purchases in the law to foreigners and when it comes to international contracts it provides for ratification by the National Assembly. From this point of view, colleagues who have doubts about good purposes will have sufficient opportunity to formulate terms for sale, as in the law, as in the case of each international contract. The National Assembly thus gives itself the opportunity to continue to control this area, so I will support this article myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving on to a decision on Article 3 of the proposal for a constitutional law. We're voting. There are 78 of us present, 69 votes against 8. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. I am putting Section II to the debate. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on Section II of the Constitutional Law proposal. We're voting. There are 78 of us present, 70 Members and Members voted against 8. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that Section II has been adopted. We are now moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a constitutional law. Does anyone want a full word on the proposal for a constitutional law? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. I interrupt the vote to explain the vote. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to explain the vote regarding the law we are adopting today. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have already decided very early and have shown an interest in integration into the family of nations, which is the main democracy, the protection of human rights and the rule of law. This is what we are doing today. As of today, we do not give up any sovereignty because we have decided that the sovereignty of our country will be decided by the people. Today, right, we are adopting procedures for how the people will decide, and that they will decide in such a way that they will go to the referendum once, how the votes will count, and how they will be binding. I believe that a necessary act has been carried out, that there have been many differences, but we Members had to do it with the help of the profession. Whatever we did, we did. I consider this to be a good act myself, so that the route is the right path for decision-making. That is also what our citizens need and I think they will get to decide. Now we do not decide on sovereignty, we decide on a path that will lead to a citizens' decision. I therefore support this law and amendments to the Constitution and will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Tribal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we have decided to give up our work of sovereignty in several areas. Today, the political structure of the National Assembly under the government's tactics on behalf of the people has changed the constitution and, in fact, misused voter votes for its own political promotion. Look at the thinking of people, it's been published a lot of times what people think about entering both integrations. And you will see that support is not as uniform as some want to show here in the National Assembly. I understand that a lot of people see themselves in Europe, in a warm chair in Brussels, where they will receive money to continue to push Slovenia into trouble if possible. This could be called the abuse of political power to gain its own strength. That's what you did, and you'll confirm it. I hope you'll wear this weight. I hope the voters charge you for that. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rupar. Here you go. Then Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased and proud to be able to give my voice to change the constitution and thus allow all voters and voters to decide in the near future to go away from the Balkan boiler, away from the very critical terrain in which we have been and on the basis of our conscience, as well as with confidence and knowledge, and finally with our help, we have decided to join Western Europe. Happy and proud, too, because I am sure that they will be so smart and decide, with the support or on the basis of this change of constitution, with support of integration, to allow themselves security, and above all that they will never again, as my colleague Vukko said days ago, tremble at them who, in the event of any aggression, would come to their aid and help save them from what we have already been in. Our sovereignty is not at risk. We will still be Slovenians, and we will still be heard as far as we want and as far as we can. But if we listen to a variety of fairy tales, floods, as well as misleading thoughts of a handful of nationalists, then I can only find that neither the Slovenes, the Slovenes, nor the nation as a whole, are writing anything good. Therefore, once again, I will be proud to vote in favour of changing the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the proposal for a constitutional law. I am of the opinion that the concept of an abstract approach, which only has the technology of becoming part of a different international community of a supra-national nature before its eyes, is not interested in what kind of community it is, is wrong and at a given time unnecessary. It would be better to wait until 23 March and prepare a concrete article of the Constitution on the referendum, where they would record entry into the European Union. In short, I am advocating a concrete approach. Secondly, the work of the section should not be overlooked. She has tried, but at the same time she has always been under some time pressure, which in my opinion is not good and the question is whether all solutions are well thought out and we will never regret them in the future; then we will argue who is to blame. And thirdly, changing the rules of the month or less before the referendum is a bad trip. The referendum, whatever it is, should be binding on policies. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, your explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u63	As regards the pride of individual Members in their decisions, this is their personal decision in any way. This allows us democracy, and this allows us to have a constitutional order so far, and the question is how long it will be. Personally, I am not proud that today we are creating the conditions for a legal formal transfer of the sovereignty of our own country. It also makes no sense for us to betray our independence in such a demeaning way. It is true, however, that in history there have been quite a few people who tried to betray our country and were proud to be Germans when it was modern. But, of course, those were other times. Only the green light was preserved, that's consciousness, to be Slovenian. And if this one follows us, we will not leave our own rights, our obligations to our people to be led by someone who is thousands of miles away. We're not leaving him this exclusive. Indeed it is possible, and I am sure that many times we, politicians, take very poor care of our own citizens. But I am sure that foreigners who do not even know Slovenia, who may have heard of it on official duty, will take much worse care of this country. I will vote against the proposal for a constitutional law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Stemberger, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. Today, Members of the National Assembly did not just decide on the EU member. If we only made that decision, we could wait another month. The meeting of the Constitutional Commission should not be convened every other day. Today, under the pretext of the adoption of the EU Article, we have amended the referendum rules of the game with which we have brought the positive outcome of the NATO referendum closer together, and this was the main objective of today's meeting. I strongly oppose this way of working, and therefore I will not support the constitutional law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a constitutional law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 79 of us present, 71 Members and Members voted against 8. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I find that the constitutional law has been fully adopted. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 182 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will declare the Constitutional Act amending Chapter I and Article 47 and Article 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia after eight days. At least 30 Members may, within the period up to and including Thursday, 6.3.2003, request that the amendments adopted and the amendments to the Constitution be submitted for confirmation to the electorate at the referendum. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 28th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, last night in the late evening, we stopped by addressing the point by examining the interim report of the State Assembly's Investigative Commission on the background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk and the possible involvement and political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and by saying that we will continue today after the extraordinary meeting. Please, the President of the National Assembly, let us know what the deal is with the leaders of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-02-27-SDZ3-Izredna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, I think today is a very important decision for us, and I think we can be happy that we have done this challenge. We have not done all of us on the agenda this week, and one of us is still on the clock, and I hope that we will also succeed in breaking it down. I think that the condition for this is a good consultation between the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and I would exceptionally like to say today among the members of the investigative commission. I suggest we take a half-hour break and meet in room 217, heads of parliamentary groups and members of the commission of inquiry to find a solution. I suggest we take a short fifteen-minute break. Then we suggest we meet immediately, 10 minutes to collect materials, 10 minutes, 20 to 15 hours in room 217. Then I will immediately inform the National Assembly when we proceed.
