ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful, good day to you! I begin the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Richard Beumann, Geza Juban, Ljubo Germič, Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Nobility, Milan Kopushar, Ivan Mamić, Alojz Peterle, Valentin Pohorec, Miran Ptrč from 13.30 p.m. on, Cyril Pucko, Igor Štemberger, Davorin Terchon, Villa Trophynik, Janko Weber and Flower Zalokar Orazem. We're moving on to 15. Period of the day - Second defence proposal for the Act on the Supplementation of the Law on Lovemaking in the National Assembly. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this law, the Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the draft law. The Commissioner's representative is not among us at this time, so we will move on to a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on this law. First of all, I invite you to present the views of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Majdo Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! Even though I don't have any papers right now, I can tell you that our Member of Parliament [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u3	Mrs. Zupan, find your papers in peace. I believe you're surprised because we don't have a proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u4	Our Group supports this amendment of the electoral law to the National Assembly, because we believe that it comes when Members can also act as mayor and vice versa to a conflict of interest, and that it would also be wise for the better work of both the National Assembly and the Assembly to separate these functions. This is a question that has been in the past several years, and there is already a number of mandates between Members, and it is likely to continue. As to whether this change falls under the law on elections to the National Assembly or to another law, as we are warned by the legislative and legal service, the question is, but we think that it must be resolved so that there are no problems and that it will be clearly determined by changes in the right law, so that things will not be in doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The views of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to comment on why there's no proposal for this law to say anything else in the first place, why he thinks it's right to file this law. In our parliamentary group, we do not agree with the opinion of both the Committee and the opinion of the legislative and legal service that this law is not appropriate in this proposal as it is before us. Because we do not think that the mayor's function is compatible with the MP, because the law of physics, we have been learning, says that at the same time in one place there can only be one body. Then how is it possible that the mayor performs as many as two functions at the same time? Or he works by subjugating his job as mayor differently than he would if he were just a mayor. I am not going to talk about a conflict of interest, I am not going to talk about someone who is the mayor having to look at his citizens first, he has to represent his citizens closely, and forgive me this expression, their interests, and on the other hand, it is clear that there are two things behind. Or we put first their material stimulation, which they have with it, or we put first what interests they will primarily represent if the mayors are under pressure from their citizens. I end with the fact that it is essential that it cannot be on one side, at the same time there, on the other side of the National Assembly. The most eloquent case that speaks against this is the following. How is it possible that in the fourth or third, it does not matter, the largest city in Slovenia, because the mayor was also an MP, was the mayor unprofessional? However, as soon as he lost his mandate as an MP, there is an immediate need for a professional mayor. Is this going together? What kind of logic is that? If the mayor is unprofessional somewhere because he has other functions or obligations, he is satisfied in his congregation, but if he no longer has other functions he is 100% needed. And it's not just the fourth or third largest city, let's look at the smaller municipalities that have non-professional mayors for as long as they don't take over other functions. But when they're no longer in another position, they're professionals. This logic has something to say to each of us who sit here and decide, if we follow it. I respect all the mayors. However, if we look here at whether they work as many hours as they require a Member's work, they harm their health and will also be at the burden of the health insurance institution to a greater extent than they would otherwise be if they were to take care of their health and work as much as is necessary. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the draft law amending and supplementing the law of elections to the National Assembly. In particular, we note that the proposed proposal for a law is legally and systematically inadequate for two reasons. First, because such a provision is substantively unclear because it means regulating passive electoral rights and the incompatibilities of the management of a function, each of which is a separate institution and are also regulated by two different laws. Second, because in fact in this case it is incompatibilities which are not subject to the regulation of this electoral law in the National Assembly. In this regard, let me actually stress the following: In the Group of Members, we note that the issue has been raised with a very inadequate view of how the current authorities are working on this issue, as well as some of the groups of Members. The fact is that the incompatibilities of these two functions, the MP and the mayor, in the European Union are known only by two countries, Greece and Ireland and no other country. Slovenia is a small country and as a small country, it needs direct contact both at the state level and at the local level. Many of the solutions that we have adopted here in the National Assembly would be taken much worse to realize local self-government and also to look at dealing with small people's issues if we did not sit here in the National Assembly, including mayors and municipal councillors. I would like to point out that, in the Group of Members, we strongly oppose thinking, including in the Ministry of the Interior, in order to add to the Law on Local Self-Government a provision that all functions at municipal level are incompatible with the functions at State level or with the National Assembly. If we were to think on this logic, then in fact the National Assembly could become a completely separate institution of the country, which would not have a realistic view of the issues and issues that are taking place on the ground at local level. We therefore strongly oppose such attempts in the parliamentary group. We add that these are attempts to further centralise our country to centralise decision-making, and above all to alienate it from the real problems it has. We expect that the National Assembly will reject this proposal and that it will also follow in other proposals circumstances that are probably not appropriate for our country to alienate the possibility of the participation of those who want and who can also perform these two functions. In this way, all these Members, who are mayors at the same time, are rich in this National Assembly, and at the same time in the Group of Members, we find that they have a very difficult and difficult job. However, this can only be a complement to the decisions of this National Assembly to make better decisions so that this National Assembly will actually take greater account of people's will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia we strongly support the proposal for a law that determines the incompatibility of the mayor and the County Municipality with the function of Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia, without figs in the pocket, immediately and not uncalculated only after four, five years or later, in particular in the desire to finally make a clear border between the executive and the legislative branches of power. Moreover, after the constitution, the Member is a representative of all the people and not only with the limits of his own municipality of limited inhabitants. You allow these obvious non-constitutions of the parliamentary party from independence onward, of course strictly recalculated and in accordance with narrow client needs, so that local parade horses in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] candidates for members of the National Assembly. [[...]] This means, in practice, that mayors, in addition to the pre-election spending of local budgets for mayoral election campaigns, are doing this well in the framework of the national elections. Of course, with the abundance of work they have in their two jobs and thus devote themselves to the work of the congregations as the elections draw near, there would be nothing wrong with this if it meant that these projects, which, just before the elections, would then cut the ribbons, would reflect the actual needs of the congregation. No, it's not like that in most cases. As a result, municipalities face major liquidity problems every two years, first before the locals, then two years before the national elections. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law, aware that in all parliamentary parties, except that which the law proposes, we will have long ago firmly fixed the mayors of your parties as priority candidates for Members of the National Assembly and that you will therefore oppose this proposal and defend yourself that you will do so in no way know how many years. So obviously, our votes will not significantly reduce the huge difference that exists up to the necessary two-thirds majority for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Allow me to inform you that the honourable Member sincerely apologizes for the delay at the outset, because, under Mr Jelinčič's mandate as the proposer, he has the power to present a proposal for a law. Here you go, Mr. Barovich. I think you can do that as part of your performance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Apology, once again, even on my behalf for my distinguished colleague, Mr Saš Pečet, who was empowered to present the law. I'm going to try to be very clear, short and sharp. First. In 1999, the proposed amendment of this law was by a reduced procedure and was not worthy of this procedure and was given regular consideration. And it takes four years to talk about him. I cannot go beyond the deleted law, which was soon after the reduced procedure and, of course, dealt with and of course adopted. It's not fair. It is not fair to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to all of us. But let's just leave it. Now, after four years of marriage, he finally came to the table. In defense of this law, I will quote my esteemed colleague, Mr Mojet, and I will use two "p-s" - let's at least be "pragmatically honest" - even though I could use six "p-s". It is already in the constitution itself, as well as in other laws and regulations, that it is specified exactly how the branches of power are divided. It is logical that the function, the mandate of the Member to represent the legislative branch of power, and the task of the Mayor, professional or non-professional, is the executive branch of the Authority. This means that none of the ministers we have elected can be a Member at the same time. That's right, that's a fact. Secondly, local interests - here I ask a respected colleague from the Slovenian People's Party to learn a little, who and where to represent local interests in state regulation - these interests are presented in the state world. And the problems of the State Council, both in the process of integration into the European Union and in this national assembly, are now clearly reflected in this way that the State Council is completely unregulated in its form. Let us agree, however, that it should have a function, such as that of the Councils of State, as well as that of the other home, or that of the first home, in all European countries, even in this country, or that we do not really need it. However, not to be taken for granted that I said we don't need the state council - we need it for the interests it represents, but let's give it what it has. And that's not true, revered colleague Rokavec, what you said - it's not true! - to centralise power on one side and the other. That's not true! I, gentlemen, say something. You can tell me, I don't know what I am, but I'm the mayor myself. Yes, the main organization of the Slovenian National Party in the municipality of Trbovlje, in the local community where I live, demanded this from me, the law allowed it, I went to the elections. Sadly or happily, people have chosen me as well. And after ten months - even three minutes I missed out because of this - I realized, and now I use these two 'p's' to make these two functions, if a man wants and wants to work very well, they don't go together. We're all trying. I respect all 17 colleagues who are mayors, I know they're trying. Imagine that it is much easier in a group of political parties that, I don't know, 34 or 20 or 18 Members, to perform two functions than in one. But that's not an excuse, but the fact is, it's eight times easier. And let's say bean beans. In the European Union, where I am proud to participate as Vice-President of the European Affairs Commission, many have asked me - I will say in a foreign language when I said that I am also mayor of "Well, is it possible." Is that possible? Because many countries of the European Union find this very strange. Because many do not allow these two functions. After all, you will decide as you choose. But I think it's at least on my part, I'll admit, I'm doing the best I can, but I'm evaluating everything, and I can do it, at two ends, but honestly, I can't do as well as I could if I worked on one side and the other. We want nothing more than to pour ourselves and the people of pure wine in due course, let's say that this is in 2006. We will have to decide for ourselves, too, and of course the people: whether they want me to be a Member, where I will represent the interests of all Slovenians, or whether they want me to be a mayor, where I will represent local interests. We just want to make it clear that we will know in 2006. I'll have to decide for myself what I'll do, my dear fellows. However, in any case, I am sure that Slovenia, the people in the local community, or the country from Members, who will carry out the legislative function in particular in the context of the European Union, will receive even more quality and responsibility and we will fight for our national consciousness. Please don't politicize these things. Tell me, everyone has the right to give his opinion. But in the end, if anyone thinks of it, he has to admit that the truth is. No one will be deprived of it, but a lot of people will get huge. I thank you and apologize for not hearing that I'm out of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much. As a proposaler, I allowed you to do so because five minutes in the beginning were not used for the presentation, but you are empowered to speak as a proposaler as well. And also the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, presented by Mr Maximilian Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, for our Group of Members, discussions are closed, more or less. I cannot say that we have a single opinion, but that this proposal is a single one. Why? Because what the drafter wants to regulate in this law does not fall within the legal system. This is clear, it is in, for example, the law on Members, which nobody hopes to open, which is part of the law on local self-government, which we will correct. That's the first reason. Otherwise, I must say that such and different discussions are possible regarding compatibility and incompatibility. If we change the electoral system, then, of course, the mayors will be in some way here if we go in the direction that is somehow indicated. If the electoral system remains the way it is, they are not foreign, because, after all, other Members coming from some local backgrounds know that we are under the pressure of this environment and that we are lobbying for the protection of the environment. That would be a terrible lie. We have a majority opinion that this incompatibilities are confirmed to be introduced, but, of course, under the condition that we change the electoral system.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We will vote on the proposal for a decision of the home working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable today at 2:15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. In five minutes, at 10:30 a.m., we will move on to the 16th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on private protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u16	Your Honor! We're moving on to 16. Period of the day - Second defensively proposed law on private protection. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I don't see any government representatives between us right now. If they're nearby, I'm asking them to join us. I would like to invite a representative of the Internal Policy Committee, which, as a parent working body, addressed the proposal of this law. The flower of Zalokar Orazem is expected to present the report of the Committee. [[Back-up advertising.]] They were all familiar with the course. We will therefore hear the views of the members of the groups on the proposal of this law. Ms Majda Zupan will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! Private protection, which includes physical and technical protection, as regulated by the current law, is also a very young activity in the European area, and we have not experienced its peak in development until after Slovenia's independence. The changed social situation defined property in a completely different way. The privacy and inviolability of property conditioned the need for its effective protection. After 1990, a large number of private security services were registered, which had different starting points and business objectives at the time of establishment. We can tear them into three groups in graves: companies created by the former Security of Ljubljana, companies created at the initiative of several companies that thus solved the surplus of the labour force, and companies established by former employees at the Ministry of the Interior and who knew the best protection area. The biggest changes in the structure of security services, as some like to call them, began in 2002 and 2003. Some private security companies have failed or are just living, others have sold or decided to join, and there have been cases of hostile takeovers. It is therefore expected that in the future a smaller number of larger companies will be able to provide as good services as companies abroad, with the help of modern technological development and reliability. Currently, 173 private security companies are registered in Slovenia, where between 4,000 and 5,000 people are employed and the vast majority do not have an adequate professional education. A lot of people work in black or just under contract. There aren't enough employees for an indeterminate amount of time. The situation of security guards is poor, particularly due to the unrelenting competitive struggle of many and poorly organised security agencies and small businesses. The problem is how to ensure compliance with the sectoral collective agreement, which was signed only in 2000, and therefore, in a number of companies, security guards are paid only under the general collective agreement. Low wages and non-payment of allowances are too many times a constant in many companies and companies. On the other hand, there are cases where retired police officers, criminals or civil servants of the former State Security Service carry out a private security activity as owners of a private company with limited liability. Because at d.o.o. they are not in a working relationship, nor are independent entrepreneurs individuals, they often slip away and are not included in compulsory health, disability and pension insurance. Compared to their colleagues, they are in a privileged position because they do not pay social loyalty contributions because they receive pensions and allowances from this activity. The new law is expected to bring a lot of novelty, and it is expected to increase professional supervision of professional work and thus prevent the black market. The Ministry of the Interior is expected to issue licences, and the Chamber, which is another hybrid at that time, even though it has been operating for ten years, is expected to provide professional support for the training required. Without professional qualifications, it will not be possible to obtain a licence and without it it will not be possible to provide protection. The creation of a special inspection service that will no longer operate within the Ministry, but will be independent, should ensure the impartiality of their work. However, we wonder whether the law, such as it is, will really remove irregularities and uncertainties in this area and contribute to harmonising Slovenian legislation with the rules of the European Union. The Chamber of Private Protection has prepared a series of amendments, which the Council of State has mostly supported and the Ministry of the Interior has not given a green light. One of the private security companies, Tit Protection Ljubljana, also made comments and amendments to the proposal. Moreover, it claims that the applicant was based on incorrect or misleading assumptions and unequal treatment. Obviously, all those who get to know each other in this area are not the only ones who need to be governed by legislation. In the field, we often encounter the conduct of independent companies and independent craftsmen, which is also pointed out by the Ombudsman, who is licensed to exercise private protection, who is hired by creditors who take the right into their own hands and help themselves with the unlawful conduct of self-help with those who carry out this activity. This is a sort of grey area in which it is possible to obtain a decisive advantage of possession by hiring a private security service. In this way, money should be able to buy a right, which is only a right for the one who gains it. Justice must not depend on money. This must also be taken into account when determining the content of the law. We note that the proposal setting out an activity incompatible with personal protection does not depart much from the texts of the current law. The bill does not bring substantial news. Spoiled formulations often undermine effective control and measures in the event of a breach of jurisdiction. And if I'm done. In our party Novi Slovenije we advocate such a legal regime of private protection, which will clearly delimit the powers of private protection in relation to the tasks entrusted to the State and its authorities. Security rights and measures must be strictly and clearly established that there is less confusion in the implementation of the law. We therefore believe that such a proposal is not appropriate and we do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. The material governed by the law in question shall be sensitive in at least two respects. On the one hand, it is a responsibility for human rights and on the other hand the relationship between an individual, those who exercise private protection and the State. Security is a good thing that we look at more or less at. People want to protect their own integrity, other people, property and other goods. Thus, there should not be any potential damage which, of course, we want to prevent by doing so. Although the individual is the one who has to take care of himself in the final sequence, sometimes his own protection is not enough. However, those who offer security must, in doing so, ensure that they themselves do not overstep the individual’s integrity, as this can lead to an increase in conflicts between individuals with a private protection activity. Research has shown that the number of infringements and abuses of rights in the conduct of private security activities is considerable. At least part of the blame lies with the law in force, for it allows for considerable discretion on the part of security because in some parts it is insufficiently appropriate. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the proposal for a law defines more clearly the powers exercised by private security services and defines compulsory education for those who wish to work in this area, as well as the details of control. We hope that this will contribute to a better state of affairs in the context of private protection activities. In the DeSUS Group, we are asked how many provisions of the proposed law apply to legal and natural persons, to whom the provisions of the compulsory organisation of the security service do not apply, or after the present law on private protection has its own insurance service. As far as the mandatory organisation of the security service is concerned, we are interested in what the applicant has in mind when he talks about the foreseeable possibilities of an unexpected danger, which is given a particular security reason, which means the duty to organise a security service. In any event, entities in the field of protection activities must be responsible for human rights, whoever is already interfering with them. The intervention must be proportionate to the intended objective, with the necessity of respecting human dignity. The concept of human rights is tensile and flexible, and any permissible infringement can be a prejudiced act. In all preventive activities, the right-holders to intervene in human freedom must act with due consideration. Since we believe that the proposed law creates a certain balance between all those involved, we will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The circumstances in which police are no longer the only ones directly concerned with ensuring the safety and security of people and their property led to the preparation of an appropriate legal basis for the introduction of a private initiative in this area. So far, economic companies and independent entrepreneurs have been individuals who have protected people and their movable and immovable property from theft, injury, destruction and other forms of harmful activity, doing so under the law on private protection and on the compulsory organisation of a security service adopted in 1994. However, this law did not provide for specific restrictions or conditions for carrying out this rapidly evolving economic activity. Therefore, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of a specific law which sets out in more detail the conduct of private security activities, since the growing interest of individuals after the additional protection of property, its preservation and the protection of the profits it gives cannot be contested. At the same time, we are aware that this area needs to be properly regulated and harmonised with European Union law. The basic objective is therefore to redefine forms of private protection, since the scope and means of carrying out security activities have exceeded the existing arrangements. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats also supports other objectives of the law, namely compliance with the European legal order, the establishment of an effective licensing regime for the conduct of private security activities, the establishment of national professional qualifications and the continuous professional training of security guards, in particular the establishment of appropriate inspection controls on the legality of the work of private security companies and the system for the regulation of private protection, which will not be achieved without transparent measures and the duties of security guards, which is also one of the objectives of the law. It seems important to us that the drafters of the law have guided three fundamental principles that guarantee non-discrimination and equality for our citizens and citizens in obtaining licences and carrying out private protection activities in other Member States of the European Union. Second principle, proportionality in the condition of so-called special conditions for the exercise of an activity. This is a permissible intervention in the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative, since it is a matter of protecting the public interest, this is a professional guarantee of security for third parties. And the third principle, the principle of the protection of public interest, which resolves the conflict between individual and public interest, means the elimination of the conflict between the provision of security to others for payment and the objective and serious implementation of private protection activities for others. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will therefore be complemented by a proposal for a law that takes into account the comments of the legislative and legal service, the Committee on Internal Policy and, in part, has also supported it with the Chamber of Private Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u23	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The law before us is a reflection of the state of interests in the area of private protection, which is more than at first sight. The developments in the drafting of the law, however, point to the situation prevailing in this area, which is all the more so as to be regulated. There have been differences in the preparation of the law in the basic concept of operation. In fact, whether this activity needs a chamber that is supposed to be mandatory or not. Given that we have identified ourselves as a basic approach in Slovenia and agreed that the Chambers are mandatory and that certain activities are also an automatic compulsory inclusion in the Chamber, then we cannot tolerate a different approach in this area, as this would mean the collapse of the concept and the derogation from some agreed principles. It must be acknowledged that a compromise is in place for the area of private protection, which lawises the Chamber and retains the most important functions, is carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. If I list some of these: grants and withdraws the licence, grants and withdraws the service card, keeps a register of records in which the Chamber has access only on an explicit request and otherwise does not have access to it. This particularity is somewhat questionable, irrespective of the legislation on the protection of personal data. I think it's one of the few chambers that looks at personal data protection. However, the Chamber, as a legal person of public law, is expected to carry out administrative technical matters. More important tasks are: setting the level of compulsory membership, professional supervision, organisation of professional and educational courses. This solution, which is before us, would give us some kind of amphibian, which does not destroy the general concept of the compulsory chamber, and, on the other hand, gives the Ministry of Home Affairs extraordinary power, which means to some extent the division of the profession to which it is intended to be covered in the Chamber. And that shows the strong political interest that prevails in this area. The Internal Policy Committee has reached a political compromise with the smallest or most urgent common nominee. In doing so, it should be noted that the number of compensation claims has increased, probably at a height not only by number. This also raises the question of whether the weapons area is sufficiently addressed. In this particular area, inadequate solutions could lead to situations that could increase claims for compensation. We hope that the reasons for the individual solutions have been sufficiently professional and that a proposal has been drawn up that is ahead of us, which will regulate the area at the appropriate level, including the professional level. In doing so, I would like to mention that the Slovenian Democratic Party has tried to correct the original proposal with a number of amendments. I can tell you that some of these amendments have been taken into account, but something doesn't. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the solutions that have been adopted on the Committee and are before us can be those that would accelerate the regulation of the situation in this area, although in this area many other political interests that are also reflected in the law. However, regulation can be accelerated, so we will not oppose the adoption of this law in our party. We will also decide, perhaps one of the Members will support this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Nice greetings to fellow Members and Members of Parliament and representatives of the government! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law on private protection. We believe that the law is needed in view of the adaptation to the European acquis and also in the light of more than 12 years of experience in this area. The law thus defines the following forms of protection: protection of persons, protection of property, transport and protection of money and other securities, protection of public collection, enforcement of security control centres, planning and implementation of security systems. As has already been said today, there has also been a minimum consensus in this area of activity, including a chamber that has actually been a hybrid all this time. Even after this agreement, things are significantly more clearly defined, given the powers of the Ministry, the competence of the Chamber and, of course, the powers of inspection. We therefore believe that it is appropriate for the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs to carry out those tasks which are actually necessary, relevant in this field: to grant, modify, withdraw, grant and withdraw the licence for the performance of private security referred to in Article 49, paragraph 1, of this Act, on a proposal from the Chamber, to determine the content and the course of the professional education provided for in Article 29 of this Act, giving consent to foreign legal, natural persons for the provision of specific services to the private sector. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. On the other hand, the Chamber is primarily carrying out the task of education. It thus implements the vocational education programme referred to in Article 29, provides staff, material, spatial conditions and equipment for the implementation of vocational education programmes, keeps a record of vocational education, prepares catalogues, standards and proposes to the members of the Commission for the verification and validation of national professional qualifications and also carries out other tasks set out in this Act. We believe that such an agreement is a suitable basis for defining the tasks in this area, the area of private protection, which is a very important area, and that, as I said in the introduction, we will support the proposal for a law, supplemented by the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the coordinated comments of the Private Protection Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law on private protection, although we have, like all of us, probably our visions and quite a few comments. First of all, let us go back to the past, as I recall, this law has been dealt with, I think that in May and then on the parental committee, we have decided to withdraw the law from further consideration, to be re-examined by the government, in particular because of the status of the view on the sharing of the exercise of public powers between the public authorities and the chamber. In our opinion, that reason was justified at the time. However, we estimate that, despite the fact that this was the reason for the withdrawal, these powers are not yet exactly or sufficiently accurate or properly allocated. As far as we understand this bill's proposal, there is still a question of competence. The Ministry of the Interior has a very large number of them, almost all. The Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia for Private Protection, in particular or only implements professional security education programmes, and is still responsible for the direct implementation of the findings and validations of individual national professional qualifications, which we believe is an assessment by the Slovenian National Party, and is still not able to exercise the powers that the Chamber should have. Above all, in the Slovenian National Party we draw attention to the still existing legal ambiguities. These uncertainties are due to the lack of coordination between the government and the legislative and legal service, and it would be appropriate for these inconsistencies to finally be settled. It is specifically Article 43, the issue of the use of force or the restriction of freedom of movement by security guards. It is a matter of protecting certain extremely important facilities, such as, say, transport infrastructure, important industrial facilities or anything like that, and in the implementation of the measures laid down in this proposal by security guards, in certain cases it is necessary to apply certain measures in order to carry out the tasks. In the law it is used, I think the term "private security measures" or "security measures" is not that they are powers, nor are they powers that are or could be. In our view, a clear distinction should be drawn between private security and private security on the one hand, and between state authorities on the other. We also note the use of means of commitment or incubation. We know that the government's assessment of this as a means of enforcement is necessary and that it is still the most humane means. We estimate, however, that there is still no precise determination of the means or powers in this law, which I think is also a reference to the rule of law. Of course, another very important issue, the issue of carrying weapons, has been or has been raised on the working body. I think that's what Section 45 is talking about. This should be regulated in accordance with the law on public meetings and events. However, we estimate that there are no precise definitions and that these should be made more clear. Once again, I say that we support and support the law on private protection in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the introduction, I do not intend to state all the reasons for the adoption of the proposed law because I expected a representative of the proposer to present them. However, I would point out two reasons that we think are fundamental in the Liberal Democracy Group. First of all, that the existing law is not in line with the legislation or the legal order of the European Union. The second reason is that we have assessed that the position of the Private Protection Chamber under the existing law is too monopolistic and that, as such, the law does not allow effective supervision. This, in the past, has produced quite a number of conflicts that have already affected the effectiveness of control and the very activities themselves. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal of the law in particular because it defines basic forms of private protection, because the bill means, as already mentioned, the harmonisation of legislation in the field of private protection with the rules of the European Union because it ensures the transparency of private security companies by establishing an effective licensing regime for the conduct of private protection activities, because it in an appropriate way establishes national professional qualifications and continuous professional training of security guards, because the law establishes and provides, in an appropriate manner, effective inspection of the legality of the work of private security companies, because it establishes a system for the regulation of private protection and, not least, because it provides for transparent measures and security duties. Allow me further to highlight the solutions that we have particularly taken in the LDS Group, although we have encountered opposition or a different perception of the issues that the Chamber of Private Protection has advocated and advocated. First of all, the question was whether a private security company could also perform tasks in the field of other activities. In accordance with the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative, we supported in the Group of Members a solution whereby, in addition to the tasks of private protection, companies can carry out other activities, of course, provided that this company fulfils the conditions laid down in the Act and that effective supervision is established over these undertakings. Another solution that we have particularly advocated in the LDS Group is that the State grants licences for the performance of private protection tasks - in this case, I am talking about the Ministry - and not the Chamber. We estimate that this is an important area, since the legislator grants a specific group of people to certain legal persons the power to intervene in human rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why we have always advocated that the Ministry should be concerned about who, when and in what way to grant the licence and whether this person fulfils all the conditions required. The solution, which we have particularly advocated, is that the Chamber of Private Protection retains the exercise of a certain part of public authority, in particular in the field of education and training of persons carrying out protection tasks; that the law provides for effective supervision and clearly defined powers for security guards. Since the law contains all these solutions, we will also support it in the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are now moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 29.10.2003. I'm putting Article 11 into the debate. The Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has tabled an amendment to this article. I am opening a debate on the article and the amendment. Anybody want a word? Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u31	At this point, it is likely that it would be appropriate to discuss the mandatory association in the Chambers. Of course, this is important for the performance of professional tasks that they are members of the Chamber. However, the unusual behaviour in our Republic of Slovenia, when all areas form a compulsory association. We are approached in the offices of the Member States by entrepreneurs who argue that, because of this legislation, they are reckless, inconsistent when the integrity of the legal system is not taken into account, the functioning of the assembly system, they are obliged to unite. Thus, according to their duties as recorded, the mandatory members of the five chambers, where they pay the fifth compulsory fee and all those obligations further. The question is, of course, what benefits come from all of this. This was, as I say, just an opportunity to come forward, and to make a substantial consideration in all of this mandatory inclusion, compulsory financing and what these amounts are. The other thing that still applies to this law is the compatibility and incompatibilities of the legal personality. Independent entrepreneurs, individuals as to who does everything and who owns this protection, as we have already met in the Company Act or in the Labour Relations Act as a legal person in the case of directors - a problem with the tax system. That's another question. This refers to Article 2, but when we follow this law, it must be in our minds. It is likely that the law will have to be amended after a certain period of time, precisely for these reasons, in order to duplicate the lack of transparency that someone who has performed a special task of protection with special powers in previous employment is establishing an agency or insurance company, is a beneficiary of the pension and then carries out this activity. Order will have to be done in this country, you know. Some ten things, others don't. And also mandatory association can mean eliminating someone through criteria in an inappropriate way. We will probably have to do this another time because the time for this, or opportunity, through the amendments in this law has passed. However, the law will not, of course, meet all the expectations of people, users and operators to establish a truly good, transparent system in Slovenia, but not to prolong the previous system's previous behaviours into the new system, in the new circumstances of joining the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Molan, please. Here you go, Mr. Molan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! First, I would like to define myself around the amendment to Article 11, namely, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amendment to Article 11, as we assess or consider this amendment to be a more specific definition of a mandatory membership contribution, which could be one of the reasons for any constitutional initiative or initiative to assess constitutionality and legality and, in view of the decision so far, as the motioner also points out, the Constitutional Court is likely to agree to this initiative. In view of the fact that we have received a timeline after which the time at which this point begins to be dealt with is a little later, I apologize for the delay in the opening of the hearing, and I might still be able to take advantage of this opportunity. I would say that we are solving this law, and we are confident that we are solving all the open issues that were the basic reason for the law being drawn up. Therefore, we align it with the provisions of the European legal order or eliminate discrimination in the field of the possibility of enforcement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u34	Mr Molan, I sincerely apologize, but it would be good for Members and Members to define what we can do now until the amendment. Because it's only now, and this is the moment we're discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u35	I'm sorry, I've decided to go to the amendment. So the government supports the amendment to Article 11.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u36	At Mr Drobnik's concerns, perhaps you should take advantage of this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u37	With regard to compulsory membership in the Chamber, which the Member has pointed out. Therefore, the original proposal, which was put into the procedure, provided that the Chamber would not have public authority and thus would not have compulsory membership. The debate or presentation of some other Members made it clear how the procedure for the adoption of the law was followed. After the rejection, we have examined the law again and identified the powers that are now quite clear as to the division of the powers of the public authorities in the field of private protection and the Chamber of Private Protection. It is our opinion that the competences of the Chamber in the field of private protection are of no importance and that they are particularly important in terms of professional training and the allocation or adoption of programmes for the acquisition of a security profession, which certainly contributes to the elimination of the causes that have caused greater difficulties in the use of security powers in the past, as the Ombudsman has also pointed out in his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u39	Well, that's what this is about. So this is about mandatory membership and contributions. So we didn't exactly miss the debate. A few, but that's what I think is allowed. See, with regard to the transfer of public powers - this does not require mandatory maintenance. It can only be established, it can acquire the exercise of public powers, a concession, and it is not necessary that they are mandatory members. As such, the Chamber shall, as a legal entity, obtain certain powers. The second is, of course, the transfer of public powers to the operator. By transferring one part of the public authority to the Chamber, it does not mean that all the content of the concession contract, or transfer, is also applicable to individual operators. In some cases it is necessary to directly transfer public powers to Ali, however, it is primarily this thought which will be needed in future changes, the following changes, to define not only in this law, but also in others - so we have nothing here. [[...]] In short, the thing is already cemented and moving on, and on another occasion, of course, these changes will be necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Molan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u41	Thank you very much. So we would just like to reinforce this mandatory membership in the Chamber. There are some decisions by the Constitutional Court that say that when a public mandate is granted, it is mandatory to associate with the Chamber. This is also one of the constitutional provisions. With regard to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia, for which an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality and legality, where the Constitutional Court clearly says so, we followed in the preparation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I can finish. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 11 and the amendment to this Article and thus the debate. The amendment will be voted on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 2:15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. At 11:35 a.m., we will move on to agenda item 17, which is the second reading of the proposal for a road transport contract law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u43	Your Honor! We're moving to 17. Period of the day - Another defends the proposal for a law on transport agreements in road transport. I very much welcome the representative and the representative of the government between us. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Boris Zivec, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u44	President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a new law on road transport transport contracts was prepared mainly because of the need to harmonise legal arrangements in this area with international conventions binding on the Republic of Slovenia and, in particular, the CMR Convention governing transport contracts in international road and freight transport and the international freight document and the CVR Convention governing transport contracts in international passenger transport. The harmonisation was necessary in particular at the amount to which the carrier could limit the amount of compensation for loss or damage to the cargo or luggage or for damage to passengers. This compensation was much lower than that provided for by those international contracts under the current Transport Contracts Act. The Road Transport Contracts Act is currently in force, although it has been well implemented in practice, but some of its provisions have, unfortunately, become obsolete and no longer correspond to today's road transport situation. Above all, it is necessary to re-establish the liability of the road carrier, which will be stricter than it is now. In short, in addition to harmonising the level of compensation mentioned above, it is essential to harmonise the terminology between conventions and domestic laws and, of course, to incorporate the solutions indicated by case law and to apply the law in practice. In the legislative procedures, we have also worked with representatives of the largest part of the professional public, which is being touched by this proposal for a bill. This means that both the draft law in the government procedure and in the legislative procedure further coordinated with the so-called coordination of Slovenian road transport operators, in which the Chamber of Commerce and Commerce and the two economic interest associations Intertransport and Transport are involved. Thus, we have been able to reconcile most of the issues at issue and various opinions so that at this stage of the process there is only a few or some opinions left. In the coordination process, representatives of carriers in particular requested additional protection of carriers in the payment of their services or greater financial discipline, further identification of so-called transport service intermediaries and determination of the elements of the lowest price of their own or, in other words, the lowest price at which the carrier may carry out transport. Otherwise, such transport would be regarded as unfair competition and would also be punished by the withdrawal of a licence to carry out transport operations. We have followed the proposals following the introduction of a greater financial discipline and supported the amendment which extended the carrier's flag right to goods it carries to the transport claims it had already made before. However, we cannot support amendments that set the lowest price of their own, even in the opinion of the Office for the Protection of Competition, by which the State intervenes in free competition, which is illegal, illegal and even contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The questions raised are also reflected in the amendments tabled to the amended law, which we would like to discuss only in further discussion, since the completion of the proposal is not intended to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the Committee's reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At its 45th meeting, on 8.10.2003, the Infrastructure Committee held a second reading of the proposal for a road transport contract law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 4.7.2003. Representatives of the legislative and legal service and the Chamber of Economics of Slovenia and of the Economic Interest Association Intertransport also participated in the meeting. A written opinion was forwarded to the proposed law by the Legal and Legislative Service, and the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia also forwarded its opinion. The Legislative and Legal Service has drawn attention to a number of support solutions in the individual articles, so that the Committee, on the basis of comments from the legislative and legal services, has drafted 25 of its amendments to the proposal for a law. The Committee also adopted the amendments proposed by Ambassador Jože Ašič to Articles 3, 5, 38, 86 and 92. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u47	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mamič is expected to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members and will present Mr Alojz Sok. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. In the absence of Mr Mamič, I thank you for allowing me to briefly present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. The Road Transport Contracts Act regulates the transport of passengers and the transport of luggage. Above all, this law regulates obligations and responsibilities in this area and, of course, a very sensitive issue, this is a matter of compensation. In the opinion of New Slovenia, the law is prepared in accordance with international standards, and we will therefore fully support the law, especially because it regulates - as the government's proponent has said - a greater financial discipline in this area and at the same time reduces the role of intermediaries in road transport. We will also support the amendments tabled because they are more or less editorial in nature, but we cannot support an amendment setting the lowest price in road transport, as this interferes with the area of free economic initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u50	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the legal regulation of road transport needs to be regulated according to domestic regulations in this area. This is recalled by the fact that in the legal regulation of road transport we still apply the outdated provisions of the now existing Transport Contract Act 1974, and by the fact that there is a need for as high a level of uniform transport regulation as possible. If we follow the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, we can find that some opinions are based on the fact that road law is relatively well covered by international conventions, that there is no need for special arrangements at national level, as well as the conclusion that a significant number of transports are carried out within the country and that in such cases national or Slovenian law will have to be applied. The fact is also that the international road transport regime is lagging behind the needs of both transport users and operators involved in transport, and it is not least important that domestic users are repeatedly placed in situations where the existing conventions on the legal regulation of road transport are not directly applicable. The provisions of almost 30 years of the old Road Transport Contracts Act no longer correspond to today's road transport situation. It is therefore necessary to redefine the liability of the road carrier, there is a legal void in some other segments, to harmonise terminology between conventions and domestic road laws and so on. In short, for a variety of different reasons, both conventional and parallel national legal arrangements for road transport are essential. The proposed law contains in its provisions only additions to the Convention on the International Carriage of Goods and to the Convention on the International Carriage of Passengers and does not govern all conflicts of law. The provisions of this law only deal with the issues raised by the passenger transport contract in the internal, this is domestic road transport. The president of the home labour force has already mentioned that representatives of both the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Intertransport Economic Interest Association participated in the meeting of the Committee. Their views expressed on the Committee confirm the necessity of the adoption of a new law incorporating Slovenian law and thus there will be no presumption as well as, for example, - some have already been mentioned today, such as a freight document - which law applies in a particular case, in particular in the case of compensation and other disputes. Therefore, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee has also adopted these amendments, which are contained in the complementary proposal of the Road Transport Contracts Act. The legislative and legal service of the National Assembly has made comments and proposals to complement some of the articles contained in the amendments tabled by the coalition parties. MEPs and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be complemented by the proposal for a law with amendments to the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, together with the coalition amendments, and we will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we support the proposed law, since the law in force that regulated this area is no longer up to date in several places and does not correspond to the actual traffic situation. The proposal coordinates our regulation with international conventions, which is particularly important when we join the European Union. We can expect an improvement in the situation in this area, especially in view of the provisions on the stricter liability of road transport operators, but if they are applied more precisely and consistently and comply with the provisions of the Road Safety Act at the same time. This is where it goes primarily to expose the transport of school children, for in the past there have been quite a few accidents that have ended tragically. The bill will fully regulate the scope of all modes of transport, which will be regulated by passenger transport contracts, luggage, cargo, order transport, mixed transport. In short, it will also be possible for the parties in some cases to determine the content of the contract, which is very important in the field of transport. As I have already said, the Group will support the proposal, because we believe that this will provide greater security, both for passengers, for carriers and for others involved in road transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Yuri Malovre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u54	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Nice greeting also to the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications! In the case of the Road Transport Contracts Act, we would say that, given that the field of road transport contracts is still governed by the 1974 law and that this has resulted in a number of inconsistencies with international contracts, which also oblige the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Transport has drawn up a proposal for a new transport contract law which is in line with international contracts or conventions in this area. In addition, in accordance with European Union rules, the obligation of carriers to provide all data on the price of transport services and other information needed for monitoring the transport services market to the Ministry of Transport is included in the law. From the first to the second reading, the law has undergone changes in relation to the Committee's treatment and road transport stakeholders. The explanation given by the Ministry of Transport and Communications is acceptable to us, so the Slovenian People's Party will support the law at second reading, together with the amendments tabled by the four groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President. Respectable guests from the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! First of all, I think the three sentences in the introduction, if you please, are very important. Firstly, actual European Union law does not specifically regulate transport contracts. Secondly, in the Slovenian National Party we absolutely agree with the bill already because we read in this law between the lines that if I talk about "not all the gold that is sacred"; it means everything that is laid down by some international treaties in this area is obsolete, of course it is not good and we like it and it is also good for us in Slovenia to go to this law, which will also determine within the country, how and what to do. To support the law, we are also convinced of three reasons: the proposal for a road transport contract law will update the law in force. Secondly, it will be in line with all international treaties. Thirdly, he will re-establish the situation under the transport contracts. It is true that road law is well covered by international conventions, but a considerable number of transports are carried out within the country and therefore there are many cases in practice where Slovenian law can actually be applied. Some of the solutions in the international conventions, so the applicant warns and we fully agree with him, are obsolete. In particular, this applies to the area of liability of the carrier for the damage caused to passengers and to the damage caused by the goods. Some international conventions regulating transport also do not provide answers to the questions raised in practice. The current law on road transport transport contracts has, at least, proved to be very good in practice, but the applicant correctly notes - and we agree with it - that certain provisions have become obsolete. In particular, the area covered by the proposal for a road transport contract law, namely the liability of the road carrier, is more stringent than it has been so far in the proposal. It is also good that this proposal also regulates the legal voids in the area of amounts to which, under the law of PPPP, the carrier may limit its liability. In short, the proposal for a road transport contract law, particularly in the country of the Republic of Slovenia, was needed, updated and primarily regulated by that part which is not regulated - or more precisely regulated by that part which is not regulated at the international level. In particular, it is important when Slovenia is included in the European Union that European Union law does not specifically regulate transport contracts. I hope that this bill will see the legal light in force as soon as possible and that the carriers will also respect it. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And the last position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present, including representatives of the government. The proposaler himself poses a dilemma or cites a dilemma that arose at the beginning of the drafting of the law and probably followed until that moment; and this is a dilemma, whether we need such a law at all. For we know that the international conventions that apply in international transport directly and that the 1974 law did not regulate this area so badly. However, in the Liberal Democracy Group we join the opinion that the 1974 laws also need to be updated and recast, which is the purpose of this law. And, of course, also translate the principles of international conventions into Slovenian soil, into legislation that will primarily apply and will be used for transport in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy or in our parliamentary group, of course, we have considered this law with care. We have also listened to the opinions of the interested groups, notably the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Drivers and Auto mechanics, and also to the two associations, as some of you have already identified, grouped together into the so-called Coordination Committee, and have also tried to understand their problems and warnings, which were then in the amendments that I personally tabled and some have received support. At the same time, however, we have listened to the warnings of both the government and the law enforcement services that some of these amendments, which have also been adopted and are included in the amended law, cause non-consistency both within the law and with the legal order we have in Slovenia, taking into account that certain areas, in particular the role of freight forwarders or intermediaries in Slovenia, are also governed by and in particular the bond code of the Republic of Slovenia, and that we also have such arrangements in the law on rail transport and also in the maritime code. For this reason, we have prepared, together with all other coalition groups of Members, some additions or amendments, which we will fully support and which eliminate these non-sustainability, at the same time open those articles that may need to be examined before the third reading and, if only possible, complemented. I am primarily talking about the issue of Article 38. At the same time, I would like to point out that the amendment setting out or interfering with price formation is not, nor will we vote on it, has not been adopted on the Infrastructure Committee and has not been included in the amended proposal of this Act, so it is not worth this moment or losing words. However, it was submitted before the opinion of the Competition Protection Office was obtained and, of course, it was also rejected as such. If I finish. The Liberal Democracy Group will support the law. It will, of course, support it for these reasons, so that we can get a law that will enforce both international conventions and the modernisation of the existing law on the domestic ground, and I will only take part in the amendment, in particular Article 38. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Allow me to comment. It is rare that all parliamentary groups support the law, so I think we can express our satisfaction with this law when it does. We are now coming to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the 29th Amendment Review. Ten. 2003. First, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Slovenian Pensioners to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article. No one wants to discuss it here either, so I conclude the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the same motioners. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the same motions. There's no desire to discuss it here either. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the same motions. For the debate - Mr. Ašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u60	Thank you very much. This is the article that most affected consistency. However, it received, surprisingly, also - or not surprisingly - due to understanding the problems full support of the Infrastructure Committee. Of course, at the same time, he has gained criticism from both the government and the law enforcement services for the reasons I have already mentioned. I myself, of course, put my name on the proposal to the Infrastructure Committee on behalf of the groups that have already been considered or appointed, which wanted to regulate an area that obviously cannot be regulated by this amendment. This is the payment of services. This is not only in this area, but obviously this is a problem in Slovenia and whenever there is any law that has at least something close to being able to resolve it, this issue arises. The carriers would like this area to be governed by the French legislation, where intermediaries would be responsible for the payment - or where everyone involved would be responsible for the payment of the service: both the contracting authority and the buyer to whom the goods are intended, as well as the intermediaries. France also introduced such arrangements in 1998 as a result of a number of problems, and if you remember the biggest European strike, the sentences of motorists, or carriers in France. However, as has been said several times before, our remaining legislation, including for other transport areas, does not provide for this and, of course, it would be because the whole law is somehow conceived by the German system or by the system of most European countries, then it would be a prelude to everyone else, as this law speaks of. For this reason, of course, the LDS Group, and I, of course, had to accept this, drafted an amendment re-imposing the original text in Article 38, so that if only it could be possible that the applicant in the preparation of the Third Treatment Act is trying to find any more appropriate formulations after these articles have been opened so that the interests of both the State and all those involved in the law are as close as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u62	Thank you. I would also like to come by myself and give my opinion on the amendment to Article 38. My colleague Ashish has already said that the amendment introduces, of course, the same dictatorship as that of the first paragraph of Article 38 in the original text. Here, I think it's a substantive question. So, what's the transport contract and what's the status of the cargo manifest? Indeed, in practice there are completely different problems as envisaged by the solutions to this law, and of course road hauliers are not always in a position to conclude a transport contract, but have only agreed on the rules of the game between the consignor, the carrier and finally the consignees. Of course, we have already eliminated, in Article 3, to the extent that we adopt the amendment to Article 3, we have, of course, deleted the provision between the mediator, so that these issues remain open in conjunction with Article 38, in my opinion. My personal view is that the warnings that carriers themselves and their professional organisations are talking about should, in my opinion, be taken seriously and seen until the third reading, whether it is possible to place the status of the document as a consignment note in the context of a transport contract which, of course, also has its consequences for the payment of services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Peternell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Most of the content explanation has already been said by Mr Ašić, for which I thank him. On behalf of the proposer or the Ministry, I would like to explain a few more dilemmas about the content. Article 38 is also related to Article 86, which refers to the company’s flag right. At the Ministry, we have somehow assessed that, in the 86th Article, where the flag right is defined more strictly than in the current law, and with the additions to the amendments, this matter is further supplemented by the fact that this matter, or what the carriers point to, is said to provide a slightly better or larger payment discipline already guaranteed. However, I can assure you that by the third reading of this article, we will be discussing the content of this article, both with the representatives of carriers and with others, and we may be trying to find another solution. Otherwise, we estimate that in Article 86 with a flag right protection is already quite good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 38 and the amendment. I am opening the debate on Article 86 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. Further discussion on Article 96 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to this Article. Since no one wants a word, I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 2:15 p.m. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation. We will continue at 12.45 p.m. when we move on to the 18th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the bill on the return of unlawfully removed cultural property. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u66	Hello! Good-bye, everybody! I propose that we hold the last item of the agenda of the October meeting of the State Assembly. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE REFERENCE LAW AGAINST THE CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS OF CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS. To discuss this item, we have a half-second hour, and then the National Assembly will move on to the decision on the points of today and conclude the meeting. The proposal for a law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects was submitted to the assembly by the Government. Does the Secretary of State want a word? Please. Mr Vojko Stopar will further explain the bill and then I will give the floor to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In 1993, when internal borders were abolished, the European Economic Community adopted a directive on the return of unlawfully alienated cultural objects. It has instructed Member States to initiate recovery procedures through unfair judicial proceedings back to their own country. At the same time, they should introduce procedures allowing other Member States to do the same when they require the return of such items from our territory. It is therefore a technical law that complements other systems of protection of movable cultural heritage or the return of alienated persons. The Directive is therefore a complement to existing national and international systems for the protection of cultural heritage at a time when there are no more borders between the members of the European Union. Therefore, it must also be admitted into its legal order by new adherents before May 2004. The core of the law is: the competent authority, this is the Ministry of Culture, initiates proceedings before the courts of other countries for the return of stolen items, with fair costs. It also provides for other countries. In accordance with the Directive, it is possible to claim the recovery of items disposed of after 1993 under these procedures. The draft law was drafted at a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport on 7 October and received the support of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Activities. The applicant therefore considers that the amended proposal for a law is appropriate for admission to the national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u68	The Chair of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, colleague Moge, will present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u69	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects is intended, as already stated before me, to harmonise the Slovenian legal order with the 1993 EEC Council Directive on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. Today, the issue of the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects is governed by the law on the protection of cultural heritage, but this regulation is not in accordance with that Directive. It is therefore more appropriate, in the Government’s view, that, instead of amending the law on the protection of cultural heritage, a law should be adopted that regulates the sole area of recovery of unlawfully removed cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State of the European Union, including 1.1.1993. The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport considered the proposed law at its meeting and, on the basis of the initial explanation of the bill proposed by the representative of the Ministry of Culture, considered that such a law was necessary and should be adopted as soon as possible. The Commission for Social Activities of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, whose representative was present at the meeting of the Committee, was of the same opinion. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly, amendments were tabled to the individual articles of the LDS Parliamentary Club and to the members of the Joint List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. All these amendments, partly of a substantive nature and partly of an editorial character, were supported by the Committee and incorporated, including its amendments to the amendments, into the amended draft law. I think the work has been done well, as only one amendment has been tabled on the proposed proposal, as I have seen today. The Committee also discussed the amendments tabled by Ambassadorial colleague Marija Ana Tisovic and found that they were not in line with the Council Directive with 93/7 EEC of 15 March 1993. On the basis of such a finding, a fellow member, the proposer of the amendments, withdrew you at a meeting of the Committee and the committee did not vote on them. On behalf of the Committee of the National Assembly, I propose that you adopt the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u70	Thank you very much, chairman of the board. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the colleague Ana Marija Tisovic, who will present the views of the New Slovenia Group. She is followed by her colleague Celigoj, first by her colleague Tisovic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u71	Thank you, President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. We're adopting a law on the return of cultural heritage. Since one of the basic principles of the European Community is the free movement of goods, it is necessary to adopt a law restricting the free movement of this national wealth with artistic, historical or archaeological value. As the borders of the European Community are open, the possibilities for the movement of these objects are also very large. Therefore, Directive 93/7 was adopted in the European Community to ensure that the system for the return of national wealth, which, contrary to national law, has been transposed from one member to another into the EU. The body which initiates proceedings on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia for the return of a particular object shall be the Ministry of Culture. On the other hand, this law also regulates the return of cultural objects from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Community, from which this object was derived. However, the return of items located in Slovenia shall be decided by the court in an unfair proceeding at the request of the country from which the case originates. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that it is necessary to adopt the law, but a lot of questions are being raised, especially on the effectiveness of this law. If we monitor more closely what is happening to our cultural heritage, the data shows that the number of places and damage to cultural heritage is increasing. We wonder whether we also have all the other legislation that protects our cultural heritage. The demand for antiques and art on the black market is considerable. The second thing I would like to point out is our cultural heritage, which is in private hands and appears on the market. We should provide more funds to buy these items, because otherwise we can lose these items forever because they will be sold to other EU countries or elsewhere, because this trade is also quite lively. Financial resources can also be provided through a donation which, of course, should be burdened by tax obligations. Unfortunately, already many of our cultural heritage is lost because we know that the geopolitical position of Slovenia is such that it passed through its territory many different armies, in one direction and the other. This has resulted in the destruction or alienation of a considerable amount of objects of our cultural heritage. Therefore, not only do we adopt this law because of the directive of the European Community, but we must ensure that other laws, regulations and financial means protect our cultural heritage. The New Slovenia Group will also not oppose the amendments adopted on the Committee, as they are essentially correcting what the government has prepared a little bit worse because of its speed. That's how she expressed herself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Čeligoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Bevk. Comrade Cheligoy, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u73	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Hello, distinguished guests, colleagues, colleagues! The bill before us allows the return of objects of movable cultural heritage that have been unlawfully removed from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and transferred to the territories of any of the Member States of the European Community - and vice versa. It is therefore a law that governs only the return of objects estranged after 1993, and the law itself does not regulate any future situations that may still occur. In this sense, in the DeSUS Group, we understand the concept of return. Following Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenia will also be subject to one of the principles applicable to the Member States, which is the free movement of goods and services. In practice, this means that formal barriers that may still be holding back "exports" will be removed. [[In quotation marks]] objects of cultural heritage. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that it is also necessary to protect newer substances, which are often in the hands of traders or private collectors, including foreign collectors. Furthermore, we believe it is important to resolve the open question raised on the Committee by the State Council's Committee on Social Activities, as it was with the cultural heritage that was taken from our territory before 1993. We all know that a lot of cultural heritage went to the territory of foreign countries much earlier this year. We wonder how far the procedures for returning many materials from our cultural past are. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that we must adopt and protect, as far as possible, our cultural heritage, which is one of the anchors of national and local identity. Finally, we have aligned the law with the Directive of the European Union, even if we do not want such or other warnings by the European Union. That is why we will support the law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Tanko. Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects. As stated in the explanation of the law, it is an express technical law or a harmonisation of our legislation with the legal order of the European Union. Don't make any mistake! There is no legal void in this area in our country, as the law on the protection of cultural heritage regulates the matter. Therefore, in the new law, we will only enforce European standards. The objects of cultural heritage are mainly stored in museums and other collections. There is a great deal of moving cultural heritage in our churches, and rich collections also have private collectors. However, it is quite extensive in this area, unfortunately, also the illegal trade in cultural objects. The main argument for the adoption of this law is the fact that, as of 1 May of next year, borders will fall off. To some extent, the border has now hampered the amount of cultural heritage items in other countries, particularly in the West. Despite the fact that the border was a designated protector, however, there were many preluded objects of cultural heritage, works of art, ethnological objects, sacral heritage and so on. When the border falls, this kind of illicit trade will be even easier. However, the law is the only measure taken by the State in this area. The law we accept will only extinguish what has already happened. In particular, such trade should be persuaded. We have a number of measures available for that purpose. The most important role here is the Slovenian museums, whose primary mission is to collect, register, inventory, preserve and restore cultural heritage items. When we record the subject, it gets inheritance status when we put it in the inventory book, and it's already the status of the monument. Slovenian museums now store over 3 million 630 thousand units of recorded material, an invaluable national wealth. However, the very effective measures available to museums are the purchases of cultural heritage items that appear on the market. Museum workers have a very good overview of what is on such or different markets with cultural heritage items. Unfortunately, there is not always enough money available. For this reason, it is necessary to increase the item for purchases of museum items in the State budget. First of all, it is important that the items are kept in domestic collections and thus reduce smuggling and illegal trade in movable cultural heritage as much as possible. In the 2004 and 2005 budgets, 95 million and 99 million dollars in addition to the 80 million that the museum receives under the regular programme are available for such intervention purchases. This is still less than an extremely high quality offer on this market. Nor will the UK Social Democrats' Group support the Slovenian National Party's amendment, as the Government's argument is convincing enough. The State has other mechanisms at its disposal to acquire an inheritance that was alienated before the adoption of the 1993 European Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Levič. Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u77	Thank you for your word and a nice hello to everyone. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects which have been illegally transferred from the territory of one Member State to the territory of another Member State, as it is intended to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the European one. The law, which consistently summarises the Council of Europe Directive adopted in 1993, applies only to the return of cultural objects which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or the Member States, including 1.1.1993. From this point of view, it is unlikely that a higher number of requests from countries for the return of items will be expected. The movable cultural heritage that was removed before that date before 1.1.1993 is still subject to the provisions of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. However, these provisions are very cheap and are covered only in a few articles. Therefore, consideration should also be given to the additions of this law, which would deal with this issue in a similar manner as will be regulated by the law we are currently considering. I believe, however, that this country, and especially the Ministry of Culture, should also urgently initiate appropriate procedures to restore that movable heritage, which, in the year and after 1945, has changed in various ways into deposits of some allies in World War II, on both sides of the Iron Curtain. Also to ensure the return of that heritage that remained outside the borders of Slovenia after the collapse of the former common country. The area of protection or preservation of cultural heritage is important for every country, and last but not least the year 2002 has been announced by UNESCO as the year of cultural heritage. As we say in the parliamentary group, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. He's been followed by a colleague of Barovich's. My friend Levich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it is what the bill-proposer claims to be a strict technical law that we must adopt in the wake of the European Union Directive. The fact is that such a law would have been needed long ago. Knowing what cultural heritage is is good to know about culture. Culture is a set of processes, changes and creations that result from the material and spiritual interference of human nature, society and opinion and all material cultural heritage. And now that Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union, when borders are gradually disappearing between countries, when cultures merge, it is all the more important that we protect and preserve our cultural heritage. The elimination of borders has many bad qualities in addition to good. One of these will certainly make it worse to control the transfer of goods between individual countries of the European Union. Not only better, tighter police supervision, there is also a lot to be done to create legal conditions to prevent the amount of stolen art. And the possibility that this law will allow us to open proceedings before the courts of other countries in order to recover stolen items from Slovenia is an important legal tool. Many of the art, which were stolen from Slovenian churches, museums and private collections, has probably already found a buyer abroad and is now located in private collections. Finding the location of such art is difficult, but not impossible. As for every rare asset, there is a black market for art, where know-how collectors for individual art are willing to deduct huge amounts of money. When we vote on the law we have before us, we will thus allow the parts of the cultural heritage to return to the places where they were estranged. Unfortunately, this law will only apply to objects which were estranged in Slovenia after 1993. The largest art was taken from Slovenia during the wars and is now in various museums and private collections in Italy, Germany and elsewhere in the world. All of these art despite some of the efforts of the Ministry of Culture and other institutions, we are probably never going to get back. Thus, between the Italian and German occupation, Slovenia has been compensated for a busy segment of cultural art and has been waiting for many years for a favourable solution to its institutional requirements. Among the largest works that were removed from Slovenia under the cover of protection against possible war damage are certainly the works of the Venetian Renaissance masters, which were taken from Kopra, Izola and Piran in 1940 by the Italian State. These works are still in Rome. We believe that the combined pressures of Slovenian diplomacy, cultural workers and also churches, which have been deprived of some of these art, could restore talks with the Italian side on the return of these art. Members of the Youth Party will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Kolega Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and finally the colleague Majnikova, who will conclude the presentation with the views of the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear guests, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we agree that a particular matter must be regulated legally. Among the mentioned items, to mention, are, of course, the young books of the Lipicans, just for example. However, the area should also be regulated for objects unlawfully removed from Slovenia during the fascist occupation of Slovenian territories and during the second world war on the part of the labour, occupation or cooperationist forces or units. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party to Article 3 of the draft law, which refers to objects whose return is required, we have tabled an amendment proposing that the third point be added, which eliminates this irregularity or inadequacy. Thus, Article 19 of the draft law, which provides that the proposal for a law is to be applied to the recovery of cultural objects which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia or the Member States, including 1.1.1993, is irrelevant. If the National Assembly does not accept the amendment, this means, for us in the Slovenian National Party, that the independent Slovenian State and those Members who do not support the amendment unfortunately support fascism and the theft of cultural heritage in the Slovenian territory. It is also a matter of concern that the Minister of Culture, who had previously seen Slovenian cultural art taken away and transferred to Italy, did not require Italy to return its Slovenian cultural heritage. Moreover, she promised that Slovenia would pay for the restoration of the objects. Opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the amendment tabled to Article 3, which is, of course, negative and refers to Council Directive EEC 93/7 of 15.3.1993, which allows the return of items only from 1993 onwards. At the same time, the government says in explanation that our allegations of the capture of Slovenian art before 1993 are correct. So why should the law apply only to European directives and not at the same time protect or supplement the legal basis for the return of Slovenian cultural heritage before that date? Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far done nothing about the return of these art? The bill has to be adopted, but it is absolutely necessary, once again, I stress that the time since the 1993 illegal withdrawal has been transferred to a period since the fascist assembly of Slovenian territories, the Second World War, by the occupying, occupation or collaborationist forces or units. And we have another remark as representatives of the legislative branch of power. Look. In assessing the financial consequences of the adoption of the law, it is stated under A concerning the return of items from the territory of Slovenia to the territory of the Member States: the law will only impose a minor burden on the courts." That's all right. What does that mean? We make the laws, not the trivial ones. Next, with regard to the return of items from the Member States of the European Union to Slovenia. "These procedures will be burdensome for the budget." I am sure that the proposaler has calculations, I am sure that the Ministry knows the number of unlawfully seized items and I am sure that the numbers could be written and very specific. And another remark: "An additional burden of court will be negligible." I don't know what it means to be neglectful, given that the proceedings before the courts are already being dragged down like this and the waiting periods are absolutely unsustainable. I ask the proposer very much that, as representatives of the legislative branch of power, we are very specific about some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Collegiate Lidija Majnik will tell you what is the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Then we'll have a discussion about the articles. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u83	Mr President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! Although the term cultural heritage denotes the heritage of previous generations, their message also means a message of modernity and experience for the future. With natural and cultural heritage in addition to the importance of national wealth, we also refer to the region, region or direct environment, as they essentially cover such cultural, scientific, historical and aesthetic value, which together brings a certain economic benefit. Caring for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and the creation of opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development in Slovenia is a constitutional obligation of the State, as set out in Article 5. The protection of natural and cultural heritage is also defined in Article 73 of the Constitution, which states that everyone is obliged under the law to protect natural sights and rareness and cultural monuments. The country and the local communities and the owners are the ones who take care of it. The issue of the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects is governed by the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, adopted in 1999. However, it does not fully comply with the provisions on the return of items of inheritance which have been illegally exported from a country to another Member State in accordance with the Council Directive of the European Union. The law before us is therefore intended to bring the Slovenian legal order into line with that Directive. In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the complementary proposal of the law. In a thorough debate at the meeting of the home labour body, we have also aligned the law with the opinion of the legislative and legal service with the amendments adopted. We will also support such a complementary proposal of the law. However, we will not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. We attach to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which points out the non-compliance of the amendment tabled with Article 19 of the amended bill. In the LDS, we are aware of the problems mentioned in the amendment, but we must stress that the return of cultural heritage items removed from the territory of the present Republic of Slovenia during the Fascist occupation of Slovenian territories and in time II. World wars by private occupation or collaborationist forces or units of elephants in the Pomeranian Agreements. Similar examples, especially those that are most important to our history and have been taken from our territory before II. World War II is coordinated by the Ministry of Culture in accordance with bilateral international treaties signed by the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. With your presentation, we have concluded a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are now moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. You received a review of the amendments on 29 October. As for Article 3, I am putting first in debate 3, i.e. the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and, of course, Article 3 in its entirety. Anybody want a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Article 3, as I just said and repeat earlier, in the Slovenian National Party, we proposed an amendment to add a new paragraph 3 at the end of Article 3, which reads as follows: The subject of cultural heritage that was removed from the territory of the present Republic of Slovenia during the Fascist occupation of Slovenian territories and during World War II from the occupied occupation or cooperative forces or units is considered unlawfully removed. I think that respected colleagues have read with interest the explanation from which I would point out only the last two paragraphs, which speak of the fact that the documentation at the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Slovenia shows that the list of art has been drawn up in the 86th year, of course, in Italy, but in the context of the Yugoslav and Italian State Commission, at the diplomatic level, the agreement on return has been completely halted. You can also read in the last paragraph how many Slovenian works of art were exhibited both in Rome and in Rome. I think that this is enough and great talkative evidence of what cultural heritage and wealth Slovenia has, but unfortunately not at home. I think this explanation fully justifies the amendment we tabled. Once again, I repeat what I said before, if we are already talking about and are drafting a law on the return of unlawfully removed cultural property in the Republic of Slovenia, then let us adopt this law so that it will be thorough and that we will receive in Slovenia a number of treasures that have gone away, in nicknames of course, from Slovenia even before 93. I hope that the opinion of colleagues and colleagues will be similar and the same, at least I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u86	Someone else wants a word. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I understand the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party as an attempt to draw attention to the rather traumatic problem of alienated works which were once part of collections in the Cypriot institutions. And this experiment and every warning about these unresolved issues is useful. In this regard, I also welcome any discussion on this subject, but it is clear that it is worth noting that it is here in a conditionally unfair place, because it is not legally sustainable. In the context of this issue and of others that arise when it is triggered, what before 1993, when this protective or favourable remuneration does not apply through the application of the legal system of the European Union, is also welcome for us to move forward, it is worth noting that those articles in the Cultural Heritage Act still apply to the protection of cultural heritage, which are covered by the section on specific provisions for the protection of the movable heritage and also to the illegal alienation of Slovenian cultural heritage and vice versa, i.e. the heritage which is located in Slovenia and which is obtained in an unlawful way. And in a way also about the rules that coordinate the processes that have been initiated in this area. Let me remind you that these articles make it very clear that permanent exports of monuments from Slovenia are prohibited that each temporary export must receive the so-called thirst of the competent ministry while sanctions are also laid down here. And in this context, let us say also the regime for the mentioned, unfortunately, estranged items from the archives of Cyprus, which have a completely different destiny and which will continue, as has been the case so far, not only the contractual provisions addressed in this case to the processes under the Amicable Agreements, but also the provisions that go on through the political talks. And believe me, not a little talk in this direction has been made from all institutions of the Slovenian state in all diplomatic exchanges. But it is true that this nut is extremely demanding. After all, not only because we meet Carpacci, Tiepol and other art, but also because of, in fact, certain desires to interpret history, and this is the history you're talking about, in fact, I understand, with the symbolic amendment you tabled. It just doesn't fit here. But it's not illegally estranged cases, just in this case, there's something else. Some of them are very close and touch on those issues that are related to, I hope, a favourable settlement on the basis of success. And it's about art and other objects that are no longer in Slovenia, but they were Slovenian and are now in the former republics with which we once lived together. In short, in this case, the amendment is irrelevant, and unfortunately, in this sense, even to comment, including court proceedings, I hope that they will not be as expensive as you expect them to be, because I suppose they will be as few as possible. This law, or narrowness and some culture of the European Union, will in the future prevent such procedures, for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u88	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then I'll close the debate. I am informing everyone that today we will conclude the meeting of the National Assembly by vote at 2:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u89	Honourable Members, honourable Members, Representative and representatives of the Government. Good-bye, everyone. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We continue with the adjournment of the 15th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on elections to the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the proposal for a law supplementing the electoral law to the national assembly, the second consideration, is not suitable for further consideration. Allow me to inform you of the following: a simple majority is required to adopt that decision. At the same time, I would like to point out that a two-thirds majority is required for any positive decision in respect of this law, pursuant to Article 80, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, that is to say, 60 votes or more. I will therefore, on the basis of the result of the vote on the proposed decision, decide whether the legislative procedure on the draft law will continue. We are therefore moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Excuse me, voice explanation, Mr. Kangler, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Kangler has the floor to explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I cannot support that bill for the following reasons. In my debate on the Committee on Internal Policy, it was also clear which are the positions that make me even more convinced from day to day that I cannot support such a law as this. That is why I would like, and I would also like to convey some views to all other Members who are not members of the Internal Policy Committee. Our country is ahead of a large centralisation that has been on the march for many years. Some political forces, from day to day, from month to month, from year to year, are also seeking this branch of power, such as the legislative branch of power, to concentrate, to centralise. The first such move, which shows that honourable Members and Members, is that some political forces see that mayors, who are also representatives of the local community, are in excess of this house. I am sorry that I will be running out of time, but I would like to point out that the political forces, which, prior to the elections to the National Assembly, have been vehemently searching for mayors around, have been glued to "jumbo" posters, with their "leaders", and today we are witnessing, not only this law, but also some other laws that come into the procedure that this structure of people, especially mayors, who perform this function at the same time, is superfluous in this country. Therefore, for political reasons and because it is a strong substantive political issue, I cannot support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Not to underestimate colleagues and colleagues, but because the previous explanation was such that someone could misinterpret it, I say that I will vote in favour of this decision, which says that the law is not appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Wait a minute! A few hands have risen - Mr Kremjar, Mr Kebrich. Anyone else want to explain their voice? In order of course, as you agreed to: Mr Kremjar, Mr Kebrič, Mr Brenčič and Mr Sok. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support this conclusion that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, for various reasons. Because I don't think it's really the right basis, as I've already said on the committee, because it doesn't, at least as I understand this substance, any serious substance, I'm not going to say evidence, but I'm going to say doubt that it could be as it suggests. That is why I think it is entirely justified to reject or not discuss the law. And I don't think it's necessary for us to discuss the content of this law today, because [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u95	Please, honourable Members and Members, for peace in the Chamber. There are many of us, and a messenger who speaks cannot even hear his own thoughts. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. This is what we are obliged to ensure by the rules of procedure for all. I extend your performance by 30 seconds, Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm sure it won't be necessary, but thank you very much, Madam President. So, I will not discuss the content, because I am sure that this content will meet with us in some other laws as already foretold, and then we will have to have a serious discussion, with serious, valid arguments. At this point, I think it is sufficient to conclude that this law is not at all suitable for consideration, so I am pleased to support this decision and the proposal of the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We will not vote in our parliamentary group in favour of a decision that says that this law is not appropriate. Why? Because we do not think that the MP's function is compatible with the mayor. According to the law of physics, at the same time there is only one body in one place, so it is not able to perform both functions properly. But I don't go into what reasons some people want to be in both functions. The legislative function with the executive power is incompatible. This means that the mayors will try, given that they are dependent on their electorates, especially in Parliament, even under this pressure of their citizens, to be directly interested in a certain local or different sphere in order to enforce that, they turn out to be, and they also win in the next elections for the National Assembly their own, so to speak, the basic majority base. Comparison with other countries - I have three minutes - with other countries shows that the local community is otherwise interested and also in parliamentary democracy, where this part of regional self-government is so in another home. We have this opportunity in our national world, so there is no reason to show the interest that these Members, in addition to their basic internal responsibility for their local community, will be equally interested and to exercise the general interest that we Members owe to, since we are Members without regard to the political option, without regard to which electoral unit or district we have been elected, in particular the representatives of all citizens of our country. Therefore, if this bill is not adopted or adopted today, our Group of Members will have an opportunity and we will speak the same way and we will not change our opinion through such or any other lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I support the proposalr's purpose. One is the political marketing that we use all the parties before the elections, and then we use the most prominent people who can contribute. Secondly, there is a real state, both of the scope of work and of individual competences. I would be very happy to be president of the Health Board if my Vice-President, after the last local elections, were once in a session, I understand that she can't come. I understand, so the work that such a congregation requires of it is that in this middle of the two segments, these two services do not go together. Secondly, I am one of the proponents, those who are to be reasoned that the State Council must have different powers from us if we are to have a two-house democracy in this country, and there must be mayors, local interests. Therefore, I will be sure that if this purpose is expressed in a single law that also provides legal certainty, this purpose will also be supported. Now I'm telling you all, including those who don't understand me. This time, of course, I cannot vote if the origin of the already legislative and legal service is such that the subject matter of the law that we are dealing with is not to absorb this content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you very much. On this occasion, I feel a duty to express the position of New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija we advocate the separation of the mayor and the MP. We are confident that this issue will have to be resolved once. Given the current high number of mayors in this House, it is clear that this can also be resolved through a transitional period, either in this or in another law. Of course, a two-thirds majority of Members are required to do so, so of course they will have to agree on this issue once and decide on the largest parties in Parliament. It is not enough that one of the smaller parties proposes something like this then, of course, most of them refuse to do so. The question is extremely topical. I think that most countries in the European Union do not know a solution where the mayor and the MP would be compatible. Let me also say this, although my colleagues do not listen to me, that we have been able to hear from the representatives of the European Union Congress on Local Self-Government, when they asked us what we think about having so many Members in Parliament. Of course, by our Members the answers, so many mayors, were by.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u103	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u104	different answers. [[...]] The representative who led this delegation, however, concluded with the following sentence, said: "I do not say that there is corruption in your country, but you have excellent legislation that makes it possible." I suggest you consider and resolve this question of the mayor and the MP in one and the same person. So, some of the colleagues who are here today have heard it just as much as I do, and they know when it was and who told us. We will have to resolve this issue once, if not in this law, but in another, as some say. We in Novi Slovenija are committed to separate these two functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Rokavac, honourable Members - I know that it is a difficult week behind us - but while the Member speaks and I am in the midst of you, I take 30 seconds from the precious two minutes that he has only at his disposal. So once again, I ask you, if you are talking to each other, to arrange this discreetly and not to disturb the speaker, please. The word has Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the proposal of the parent working body, because, for the first time, I believe that what content is proposed is not appropriate for the further procedure of this law, and for the second time because of the content itself. I am convinced that thinking that the mayoral function would make it impossible for this person to act as an MP, to actually get involved in a very dangerous game, in the game of additional centralisation of this country. However, I know that the interest of senior state officials in ministries and governments is to get rid of mayors and Members, because they have only a little better influence in this way, and also here in Parliament, the impact that the realist issue, which is at local level, is also being tried through Parliament. Many of the solutions in this House have already been useful, because there were mayors or councillors among us and so on. In short, I see it as an egotistic view, sometimes from a personal point of view - if I have not been elected to this or another function, I will oppose the fact that these two functions are compatible. Second question. It has also been said today that these two functions are incompatible. Anyone who is the mayor and at the same time a Member of Parliament has the opportunity, after the current legislation, to find that he cannot perform both functions in order to resign. And I believe that any other transfer in this area will first separate us from the standards of the European Union, where we are one of the few countries that would legitimize the incompatibility of these two functions. That is why I will also vote in favour of the proposal of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I myself support the intention of the proposer, and in this sense I will also support the law. However, there is no reason that only mayors would be representatives of local interests, we are not all representatives of local interests. That MP who didn't file any local amendments should be the first to throw the stone. I put them in, and I didn't even talk to my mayor about it, and I'm not that mayor. And what's more, it's logical to put in local amendments, because not only do you know this area best, not just the local community, but also the narrower area you come from. So it's not a dilemma. It must also be said, the truth is that it is not only a parliamentary function that is incompatible with the mayor's office. Likewise, not all congregations are the same. We have municipalities with a small population and with a larger population. And in such cases, in my personal opinion, this function is even compatible. Of course, where a person is actually within one term, a citizen cannot reach his mayor within four years, and there, I think, matters need to be fundamentally changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-30-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of vote and we can move to a vote on the proposal for a decision. Allow me to repeat it again, so that there will be no errors in the vote: "The proposal for a law supplementing the electoral law to the National Assembly is not suitable for further consideration." We are taking a decision on this proposal. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 50 votes against 17. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on private protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 11, the candidate is the LDS. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. The vote was 47 to 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore completed the vote on the amendments, and I am thus also concluding the second reading of the bill. In this second reading, an amendment was adopted, i.e. amendments to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill. However, since, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, until the third reading, the Council will have to hold a third hearing at the next meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a road transport contract law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we are voting on the amendment of the four coalition groups to Article 3. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the same motions to Article 15. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We are voting on the amendment to Article 22 of the same motions. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 23. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We vote on the amendment to Article 38. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We vote on the amendment to Article 86. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. And the amendment to Article 96. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 50 Members and Members voted against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We have therefore ended the vote on the amendments. I conclude the second reading of the bill. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles, since, of course, the assembly must, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, be at least 24 hours before the third reading, the assembly will hold its third hearing at the next meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th, the last item of the agenda - second reading of the bill on the return of unlawfully removed cultural objects. We will first decide on the amendment tabled to Article 3, which is the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 11 votes against 46. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and I am thus concluding a second reading of the bill. I note that in the second reading of the draft law no amendments have been adopted, but that, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, until the third reading at least 24 hours, the assembly will vote on the law at the next meeting of the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 30th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much and good-bye.
