ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, let me say hello. Representatives of the Government also at the 28th meeting of the National Assembly. We will continue with our work by addressing item 2 of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the provision of air navigation services.First of all, allow me to apologize to some colleagues and colleagues who are unable to attend due to other obligations. These are Beumann's colleagues, a colleague of Bevk, Dr. Brejc, Horvat, Jakič, Janša, Kacin and a colleague of Peterle. Nor will she be with us, colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič. Colleagues and colleagues, before we move on to item 2 of the agenda, I have the opportunity and the honour to welcome in our midst his Excellency of the President of the State Community of Serbia and Montenegro, Mr Svetozar Marović, to the National Assembly. A little earlier, I wished the President, on our common behalf, that his country, too, with as few problems as possible, would be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered now by peace and security in Europe. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the provision of air navigation services - Second defense. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. And one of its representatives - this will be the minister - wants to present a complementary explanation of the proposal. Available for 5 minutes. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The proposed Act on the provision of air navigation services removes the fundamental systemic non-compliance in order to distinguish the supervisory and operational functions of activities carried out by air navigation services, which can only be separated from the first principle on the separation of these two functions by systematically and organisationally distinguishing the two functions. The second principle of the proposed law is contained in the Convention on International Civil Aviation, the so-called Chicago Convention, and in particular that the State is responsible for providing air navigation services. The third principle of the proposed law is that air navigation services are compulsory in the Republic of the Economic Service. Given that the provision of the service of search and rescue for floods and air weather services is regulated by other regulations, this law primarily regulates the provision of other air navigation services. The fourth principle of the proposed law is to ensure the safety, regularity and smoothness of air transport, i.e. public interest in all conditions and circumstances, regardless of who performs air navigation services. To this end, several security guards have been incorporated in the proposed law, including a certificate of competence, which will confirm the appropriate competence of the public undertaking or all navigation service providers and the possibility of re-uptake in the management of the proportional part of the infrastructure by the Republic of Slovenia, if required by the provisions of the international treaties which bind the Republic of Slovenia, or if changes in the conditions for the performance of the services are such as to affect safety, regularity, air traffic continuity in the Republic of Slovenia. The fifth principle of the proposed law is to ensure greater flexibility and efficiency in organisational, financial and human resources issues arising from rapid technological development and adaptation to the requirements of transport flows within Europe. The reorganisation of air navigation services will not affect the state budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me to provide some further information below, which further substantiate the decision to draw up a proposal for a law on the provision of navigation services. On 16 December last year, the Council of the European Union forwarded to all interested parties the text of the draft EU rules relating to the so-called single European sky, the creation of a single European sky, the provision of navigation services, the interoperability of air traffic management networks and the organisation and use of airspace. Negotiations for entry into the EU have also been practically concluded since the text of the draft law has been established in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment of the National Assembly. There are no transitional periods in the aviation field, so we need to be properly organised in order to follow European Union rules. Currently, virtually every regulation adopted by the European Union in relation to air navigation services concerns the Slovenian national administrative authority, i.e. the regulation laid down by the rules on state administration, not the rules on economic companies and economic public services, which is the practice in the EU. The delay in reorganising the provision of air navigation services would certainly lead to organisational, financial and human resources problems and competent disputes at the time of full membership in the European Union. In line with the above-mentioned guidelines, which led us in the drafting of the proposal for an air navigation service law, and in line with the solutions in most Eurocontrol countries and in line with the future regulation of these services within the EU, we propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supplement the proposal for an air navigation service law, together with the proposals of the amendments of the SLS Group of Members and the United Nations Group of Members, be supported and sent to the third hearing as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much for the additional explanation, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was addressed by the competent infrastructure and environment committee in the National Assembly. President Janc is here. Would you like a word? The chairman of the committee, Comrade Janc, now has the floor, followed by representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please, the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Infrastructure Committee considered the proposed law at its 42nd meeting on 27.6.2003 and, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure, carried out a second reading of the draft law. In addition to the proposer of the law and the legal and regulatory service of the National Assembly, representatives of the independent air traffic controllers union also participated. A written opinion was forwarded to the proposed law by the Legal and Legislative Service, which in its opinion had comments mainly on Articles 2, 3, 6, 8, 13, 20, 21, 24, 25, 27, 29 and 31. In particular, Article 7 was highlighted in this opinion, namely in the third paragraph, which concerns not only the operator, but also the conditions for the performance of the service and which result from a certificate proving the operator’s competence to perform certain services. As regards the resources for the establishment of the dedicated revenue of the State budget under the charge and the price for the provision of navigation services, and for the upgrading and identification of the entity that accounts the fees and costs and is obliged to transfer them to the budget. Article 14, where a public undertaking, with the consent of the government in Slovenia or abroad, may establish or acquire capital shares. Article 15 concerning the provision relating to a five-year business plan to be adopted by the founder. And to Article 23, which governs the sentence. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Infrastructure Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In doing so, he accepted his amendments. The Committee adopted the proposed amendments to Chapters 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 27, 29 and 30. It has also adopted two amendments to Articles 23 and 31, thus sending the amendments of the parliamentary group of the People's Party without purpose. The Committee has also drafted some of its amendments, namely Articles 7, 10, 15, 23 and 31. In accordance with Article 128, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law and adopted them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. Mr Malovra will first present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and its colleague, Sok of the New Slovenia Group. My friend Malovre first. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Messengers and Members! The Slovenian People's Party has already found in the Act on the provision of air navigation services, at first reading, that this is an obligation of the State, in particular after signing the so-called Chicago Convention. The characteristic of this arrangement is that the State cannot transfer its responsibility to provide these services to a person of private economic law. For example, a private company is governed by law or an international organisation. However, it may transfer the implementation of these services to such a person who is in the majority or full ownership of the State. The air navigation services, in particular as defined by the Aviation Act, shall be provided by the Ministry of Transport or the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation and by the other ministries. Given that the reorganisation also seeks to ensure greater flexibility, to monitor technical and technological developments and to adapt faster to transport needs, the above-mentioned reason and exposure of air navigation services to the market principles of operation has led in most European countries to the reorganisation of these services in the form of private economic law companies, which are 100 % of the country's property. The transfer of certain tasks relating to air navigation services is also envisaged to other organisations. Thus, the Republic of Slovenia is already provided by the Eurocontrol or Central Movement Control Unit and by the Central Office for Airways Fees and the fulfilment of certain tasks or international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia has also signed an agreement on air services and the operation of facilities and installations. The Aviation Act provides that air traffic navigation services and related infrastructure facilities, installations and systems shall be provided by the State and that the State shall ensure the performance of these services under public service conditions. The proposed law sets out the services of air navigation services provided by a public undertaking designated as compulsory public economic services and organises the operator as a public undertaking, which is the most comprehensive organisational form, both in terms of the management-control function and the provision of public interest, summarizing the significant qualitative differences between the proposed and existing arrangements. That organisational form of the operator is proposed because this also implies the monopolistic nature of the activity, while at the same time it is an activity that is financed itself and can be carried out on a profitable basis. Here are the attributes justifying the selection of the proposed form of the contractor. It is also noted that the emerging system of employment, training, remuneration does not take sufficient account of the specificities of the treatment of the tasks of services for which specific conditions and requirements are laid down, which are not based on education obtained in regular schools, and in this regard there is also agreement on them. In order to provide or operate air navigation services, it is also important to regulate neighbouring countries and, given that the main air flows in the Slovenian space are from north-west to south-east, this comparison is important in particular with regard to Austria and Croatia. With regard to these two countries, it must be noted that in both countries they carry out a large part of the tasks of air navigation services to an economic company which is 100% owned by the State. As previously stated by the Minister, the basic objective of the law is to ensure the safety, regularity and smoothness of air transport, i.e. public interest in all conditions and circumstances, regardless of who performs air navigation services. The second fundamental principle to be ensured is already contained in the Convention on International Civil Aviation. The provision of air navigation services is also laid down in the Aviation Act, in particular their provision under public service conditions, and the regulation laid down in the provisions of this Act. The law also provides that air navigation services are provided by the Republic of Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in public service conditions. [[...]] Among these are three services on the provision of the conditions of the compulsory Republic Economic Service, which is operated by a public undertaking with 100% ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. The aviation meteorology service and the aircraft search and rescue service shall be provided within the framework of the public administration system. A public undertaking shall operate infrastructure facilities, facilities and service systems in accordance with a contract agreed upon by the public undertaking and the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of a public undertaking. Other solutions are based on the provisions of the Aviation Act, the Law on Economic Public Services, the Law on Economic Companies and Slovenian Accounting Standards. Also, a financial projection of the public company's business shows that future airport charges will remain at about the same level as now, around €70 [[in Europe €92]] which means that the Republic of Slovenia will remain competitive in this area in the future, and this is also the most important. This will not affect the state budget, as the Minister has said before, due to the exclusion of navigation services from the public administration system. The entire system for the implementation of air navigation services, including services not carried out by a public undertaking such as air meteorology, search and rescue services, will be financed from fees for air navigation services as the intended revenue of the State budget. In view of that, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u7	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u8	In view of this, in most of the amendments adopted by the Slovenian People's Party to the articles adopted by the Infrastructure Committee - to Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, to Chapter 5, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 27 and 29 and 30 - and these amendments were aligned with the professional services [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u9	Comrade Malovre!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u10	I'm concluding. They were also in line with flight control officers. This will help to improve this law, so the Slovenian People's Party will support this law, which we invite everyone else to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Sok will present the views of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by his colleague Jelinčič of the Slovenian National Party Group. All I ask is that you are sensitive to a time that has been given to all equally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u12	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and other representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Before I present the position of the New Slovenia Group, allow me to say the following. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that this law does not comply with the business provisions for consideration at this meeting. It does not comply with the rules of procedure because they are not mentioned in all articles - as our rules of procedure - tend to be in men and women's sex. That is why - I hope that the representatives of the legislative and legal service will listen to me - because the law introduced by the Slovenian Coalition, the intervention law to remedy the effects of drought, the cold of other cultures with a pitch in 2003, was rejected for this very reason. In this law, however, you can find the wrong solution in a series of articles, namely, that women and men are not used, even though we wrote this possibility in our law in Article 1. By noting this; of course, I can't help but warn you as a member of the numerically weak opposition. However, when this law is being considered on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to say that, in fact, there are only two issues that matter to us, namely, how to organise these services for the first time, that their operation will be effective and that, especially through the organisation, security will not deteriorate and, in the context of ensuring this safety, also based on experience in the past, how to organise the right to strike workers working in the field of navigation services. In the Eurocontrol Member States, different, more or less similar organisational forms are known for the implementation of navigation services; these are mainly four. These services act as a state authority, as we do today, as a state-owned company or as a state agency. In slightly larger countries or much larger than Slovenia, as cooperative forms with one or more owners, with the dominant or non-dominant influence of the country. In the form of providing navigation services in the Republic of Slovenia, however, it is also important how these services are organised in our immediate neighbourhood, according to Italy, Austria, Croatia, mainly in these three countries. And as far as our neighbouring countries are concerned, these services are more or less the domain of the state organisation, so they act as companies that are 100% owned by the state. There are some differences with regard to the conduct of certain other activities under these basic purposes. We now have the situation that two of the air navigation services, the air meteorology service and the aircraft search and rescue service, provide the competent state authorities within the Ministry of Environment and Space. And the bill is to keep it that way. The remaining three services are the Air Information Service, the Air Transport Service and the Air Telecommunications Service, which have so far been fully organised and implemented under the Civil Aviation Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and will, of course, be operated by a public company 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia after this law has been passed. The public company will operate infrastructure facilities, facilities and service systems in accordance with a contract agreed upon on the one hand by a public undertaking and, of course, by the Republic of Slovenia as the founder of this public undertaking. Of course, what will be the content of this Treaty, which will be concluded when the law enters into force and when this public undertaking is established? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u13	Please complete your sentence or thought for a moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u14	Yeah, then I have to end up in the middle. I will, because we still have time to continue with the amendments themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to my colleague Jelinčič, let me just explain that there will be no misunderstandings later, once and for all, that the law tabled by the Group of Members does not have qualifications and cannot go to an extraordinary meeting because there will be an extraordinary session dealing with self-procedures, i.e. only laws by emergency procedure, while yours is being tabled on a regular basis. So it is not another minor question of your proposal's tabled text, but of a business provision that makes it very clear which proposals can go to an extraordinary meeting and which does not. The government has tabled a proposal that will go to an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday or Wednesday when I decide to convene, after consulting with the chairman of the committee, my colleague Jace, to determine whether this would be possible on Tuesday, if not Wednesday. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! According to the Slovenian National Party, the law is poorly and poorly prepared. In spite of the need for such a law, it must be borne in mind that it is not necessary, is not good, is not complete and is inconsistent in this form, as the law is presented. This has already been said on the basis of 24 amendments to the 32 articles of the Law. Then there were two amendments to the Committee and the legislative and legal services had comments on the 11 articles. We have already said that laws that are so unprepared and so incomplete, which receive so many amendments, must be returned to the applicant to prepare a new law, to consider what he wants with legislative matter and how he wants to regulate it. The basic objective of the law is to ensure safety, regularity and air traffic continuity, regardless of who performs air navigation services. It is evident that the navigation of the upper airspace where those aircraft that mainly need navigation control and navigation services are flying. There are about 10 minutes of planes in this room. Ten minutes to go all over Slovenia. It is therefore questionable whether it makes sense in this way to have control of the airspace in Slovenian hands, whether it would be better to leave one of the members of Eurocontrol to get quite a lot of money for this. For crossing the airspace of a given country is a sovereign right that the State allows or does not allow and may charge. Management of this is regulated by concession and this concession would certainly cost the country less than, say, the costs of the flight control system together, which are borne and amounted to in 2003, as we see on the table more than 2 billion and a half Slovenian tolars. The law, when it comes to assessing the financial implications of the draft state budget bill and other public funds, also states that: air travel charges in some EU countries already exceed €92 today, which means that the Republic of Slovenia will remain competitive in this area in the future. What does the billmaker really think that we do not know that this is not a competitive fight in the Slovenian airspace, but that Slovenian airspace is the sovereignty of our country? There is no competitive partner in the Slovenian airspace so that Slovenia can be competitive in this area. And Slovenia does not exercise airspace control in any other country, because it is an autonomous right of each country. And it must be realized that aircraft do not fly outside strictly defined air corridors. That's what she says. I don't know why she gave it to me. Maybe it's because Members of Parliament think we're fools, because otherwise this sentence would certainly not be in there. It is necessary to be aware that next year we are entering the European Union and I do not know how meaningful it is for us to adopt this law, which does not regulate matters, but only, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is it for the benefit of some more or fewer individuals. We don't need that kind of marriage. The law must be consistent. It's about air traffic safety. However, security can be guaranteed later, when we enter Europe, through joint projects with neighbouring countries. This would make sense, this would be opportunistic and this would be financially not only acceptable but very beneficial for the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčič. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will be presented by counterpart Zammernik. Please, Comrade Viceroy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we have had many discussions with people who are being repressed in one way or another by the adoption of this law. In all the discussions, it has been clear that we need such a law and, of course, it is commendable that we have it on the table, but, to some extent, I can agree with the Pre-Priest who says that it is necessary after the adoption of this law does not justify the fact that a law is submitted to Parliament, which is then subject to as many corrections as we are now witnessing. The amendments, which have been showered both by the parliamentary groups and then by the Committee and the comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, do not, of course, excuse the Government for submitting to Parliament such a law as is necessary for so many amendments. Nevertheless, after these discussions, which I mentioned at the outset, we assess in the parliamentary group that the adoption of the law is necessary and will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you, Comrade Zampernik. Mr Weber will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The presentation of the views will be decided by my colleague Ašić. First, Comrade Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President, and a very nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for an Air Navigation Services Act has been examined in detail in the parliamentary group and, last but not least, we have also tried to obtain additional opinions, both by trade unions and aviation experts. What can be understood from the content itself, however, can somehow be combined in the following aspects. Of course, the law may be incomplete, just in view of the fact that it does not ensure the uniform organisation of all services necessary to provide air navigation services. Nor does it take into account international contracts for the implementation of navigation services in the European Aviation Safety Organisation [[It will, inter alia, perform almost 80% of the total amount of work]] and increased costs for the operation of the service. In addition, we note that the financing of the activity will be carried out from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that the public service, which is supposed to be organised in a public undertaking, will not be provided for all airports in the Republic of Slovenia, but only for those larger ones which have somehow the status of the public airport; many other airports remain out of reach, if we say so, public companies. So when we evaluate the law in terms of safety, regularity and air traffic, and in terms of the financial consequences of the law, we find that there are still a number of things that will need to be examined before we can finally adopt or formulate the text of this law. At this stage, we have also tried to create some amendments in the parliamentary group and thus improve the content. Above all, our amendments relate to allowing employees in a future company or those involved in navigation services to participate more actively in the negotiations, both in international negotiations and within the country itself. Above all, we are giving the possibility to influence users of air navigation services, because it is a monopolistic activity and we need to be careful and ensure that users have a greater impact on the design and operation of this service and on the design of the costs of this service. So, somehow we tried to respond to what was exposed as a problem in the operation of this service. Indeed, it was found that it did not participate actively enough in all negotiations, particularly in the European Union, and that they would try to ensure this by means of this law. Of course, the law itself will not allow this; it can enable a truly well-organized service, it can enable these experts and quality talks - so that the implementation of the law alone will probably require a lot of work in the field of human resources. Otherwise, we have also studied another variant, which is also offered by the aviation law. Indeed, the Aviation Act refers to the organisation of navigation services in the form of an economic public service. However, we have several forms, from the directorate, the company, the public company, and we have considered, including when considering this law on the committee, that it would nevertheless be good to examine all the options according to the scope of the works, given the transfer of competences to the common European Aviation Centre and, lastly, also in terms of the financial implications that follow the new organisation of this service itself, and later on with regard to the consequences that will certainly be reflected on the domestic air carrier as well as on international carriers or those that fly our atmosphere. If these costs are too high, our sky will probably be of little interest to them. So we believe that by the third reading we will have to carry out some additional coordination. But, of course, we will support the amendment of the United List, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u22	and the People's Party. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u23	My colleague Ašić will now present the views of the Parliamentary Group or Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia as the last. This will conclude the presentation of the positions and move on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Please, Comrade Azhish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Obviously, as in all parliamentary groups, this law has come under a great deal of interest in the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Apparently, we are very interested in aviation in Slovenia at all. We realize, of course, that we need this law in Slovenia. Not only do we need it, we must accept it, because we made such an obligation on our own last year or before the adoption of the aviation law. Of course, as some have already identified before me, the aviation law also offers different solutions, at least two possible in the context of organising this service as a public economic service. The solution offered is that the state of Slovenia will establish a special form of society, which will be 100% owned by the state, but will certainly be independent of the state administration. This is probably also the wish of those who are active in this activity. It is true that this new form will not, of course, provide all the five functions that the navigation service must perform, in order to remain a security and rescue service, the resolution of air accidents is in the Ministry of Defence domain, and that, of course, aviation meteorology will also be organised as it has been so far, within the framework of weather at the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. We estimate that this is good and rational, because for such a large country as Slovenia, it is certainly not necessary to have double meteorological services, double rescue services and the like, and we simply join such solutions in our group. The proposer shall ensure that such solutions, as stated in the law, will enable the normal development of this activity, so that the activity will generate a sufficiently high accumulation from its own financial resources, which will also allow for professionalism and material competence. The proposer shall also ensure that such legislation and solutions follow the Euro-control development guidelines and are also comparable to those of neighbouring countries. Some speakers have talked about this too. In fact, in Croatia and Austria, there is similar organisation by including meteorologists in such a state-owned public society. In fact, we in the Group of Members are concerned and regret the fact that this is actually another proposal. The first concluded his treatment already on the Infrastructure Committee due to a number of comments made by the Law Service, which we failed to implement at that time in the spring. We regret that the same thing is actually happening in this proposal. And we do not see, when we have come to the complementary proposal of the Law in the Infrastructure Committee in a relatively difficult way, that the Law Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has made comments to a number of articles of the already amended Act, which in some ways are partly summarized by the two parliamentary groups in the amendments, which is the Slovenian People's Party and the United List of Social Democrats. But not entirely. These amendments offered by these two groups also do not address all the issues that the Law Service raises in its second opinion or in its first opinion on the amended proposal. This is why we will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Group, although most will, at least some of the amendments of the two parliamentary groups, which have not been coordinated in the process to be considered in the National Assembly, which is also a problem in some way. However, we announce a thorough reflection on some of the solutions. In particular, we will also carefully review the relationship between the Slovenian air control or Slovenia's control which is supposed to be the result of this law and the Eurocontrols regarding the relations in the management of the medium and higher airspace and, of course, in the third reading, also decide whether we will fully support this and such solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much too, Comrade Azhish. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and will now move on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I will run it on the basis of a review of the amendments you received on 9 July this year. We'll start with Article 3. I will put to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Anyone want a word about Article 3? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 3 and move on to Article 5. The amendment was tabled by the SLS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Comrade Sok, regarding Article 5? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much. We've got a little bit of time left before. Since I could not conclude the debate, I would like to say the following in Article 5 of the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. Therefore, this bill provides for the establishment of a public undertaking which is to be in the 100 % ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. Nowhere in the law is any indication of what kind of assets the government will invest in this public company. That seems like a drawback to us. It is only stated that the Government of 240 million tolars will provide for the start of the operation of this company and that this company, which is legally constituted in this law, which is now in only two articles, will operate on the basis of the Law on Economic Public Services. Of course, the Law on Economic Public Services has many articles. And this means, as is known from our transitional practice, that capitalisation will occur sooner or later and, of course, the share of the State in this company will likely decline and then the ownership relations will be significantly different in this company. It is said that the state will no longer be a 100% owner, but it will probably only be the end of 51%. In these relations, the desire will begin to generate profits, to generate profits, and therefore, in this context, the next amendment, which gives me the possibility that, of course, the fee will be created differently than in the explanation of the law, or, as has been said here today, that this fee will remain at the current level of around €70, which is below what they charge in the Member States of the European Union. We are asked the question because the very reason why the establishment of a public undertaking in this area is not an exact reason why the government approaches, or the proposer in this way. Actually, there are only two reasons. There is talk of efficiency and rationality, but there is nowhere to be found in any business plan that shows whether this efficiency and economy, or rationality, will actually be ensured through this public undertaking. Above all, when we think about it and when this organisational scheme changes, we are concerned about another issue, which is a security issue. Thus, regulating the navigation service or regulating the services in which air traffic controllers operate is in particular an up-to-date and interesting issue from the point of view of security. It is true to provide security for all those who use or use these air services. We are largely not opposed to the proposal of this law, but, as some others, we are asked whether it really makes sense to create two different services in this area, one within the framework of public administration and one within the framework of a public undertaking. And if within a public undertaking, why such an approach and in such a way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u27	We are therefore in the middle of the debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. My friend Jelinczych. Five o'clock. Anyone else want to talk about Article 5? Otherwise, I will conclude the debate. And I went to the debate on Article 6 and here he has the floor now, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that Article 6 is directly directed at two airports in Slovenia, which are not categorised as the other two have Ljubljana and Portorož and we have Maribor and we still have Cerklje and Slovenj Gradec. I believe that the amendment proposed by the United List of Social Democrats has been written to facilitate the work of two airports with certificates and make it difficult for other airports. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are convinced that the categorisation of all airports must be raised to the same level, which means that the same level should also be ensured to Maribor, including Cerkljam, including Slovenia Gradec. Everyone has concrete runways and if they already have to pay a fee to provide navigation services, then this should be arranged in the same way for everyone. In the basic law in the fourth paragraph, it's kind of a big mix-up. It is evident from paragraph 4 that the applicant did not know what he really wanted, but that he had subjected himself to those who wanted the law to be treated and adopted in the way it was written. I think, once again, I stress that such a law will not be good for Slovenia and best to be rejected in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u29	My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u30	The amendment we made to Article 6 is trying to resolve exactly what colleague Jelinčič warned. In fact, navigation services are financed out of fees only at public airports and at all other airports which do not have this status are covered by operators. And our amendment speaks of the fact that assets other than public airports are provided by operators, at a time when this airport becomes public, but of course it immediately becomes financed from these fees and there will be no need to change the law. However, if the article remains the same as the applicant, then we will have to list it in, as has been said, an airport that will acquire, a new status of the public airport, we will have to re-register it in this law or something like that. And that these inconveniences will not occur, we have determined that public airports actually need to be provided with tax assets and for non-public operators. However, our orientation is also such that if it is already a public undertaking, it must be for all airports, not just for some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u31	Anyone else want a word? We are in the middle of the consideration of Article 6 and the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 6. The same parliamentary group has also tabled an amendment to Article 7 to which we are now going. Anybody want a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u32	One of the innovations introduced by this law is also a certificate of competence for the implementation of navigation services. Our Administrative Procedure Act makes it very clear that if a decision is final, then this decision must be issued by the Minister. The basic doctrine of the law leaves this matter open, since it is an organ within the government, which would probably mean an administration for civil aviation. However, since the decision is final, it must be the responsibility of the Minister. And that's why we're putting in this amendment. At the same time, I would point out the non-compliance of this Article with the international treaty, namely, European regulation does not provide that the certificate is valid for three years, but is valid for at least five years and not more than ten years. So that we will also have to consider harmonising the law with European regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you. Anyone else? My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u34	Mr. President, especially this. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has adopted some amendments which are not in the review. We don't have a document to withdraw the amendment or anything. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has made these amendments on 27.6. and has also been published in the Rapporteur, but is not here in the review of 4.7 and 9.7. I would just like to ask you first to try to answer this question, and then we will see if this is a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u35	Does anyone else want a word in between when we check this with regard to the question of Comrade Jelinčič? If not, I will not conclude the debate on Article 7, but we will move on to Article 8 and we will return to 7. if this is acceptable for all colleagues and colleagues not to waste time. I hereby adjourn the debate on Article 7. We are moving on to the debate on Article 8. The amendment was tabled by the SLS Group. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 8. We are moving on to the debate on Article 9, where two members of the group have tabled an amendment. Please, first my friend Janc, then my colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 9 raises the conceptual issue of financing individual services and the integrity of the state budget. The fees as a source of funding for the public service are not part of the integrated budget, but will be kept separately in a special account. Of course, in connection with this amendment and with the solution in Article 9, a solution is also found in Article 10, where the state budget is intended to cover certain costs. So, I find these solutions conceptually very questionable. On the one hand, on the other hand, they would have their own kindergarten, which they would have in a special account, and they would also carry out additional activities that would not constitute a source of public economic service financing. And the third thing is, if all this money ran out, we would go to the state budget to finance the base of the activity. Personally, I do not agree with such solutions, because if we take such a path this time, the question arises as to how it will be resolved in other public economic services. Road tax is also an integral budget for driving or managing, I don't know, road infrastructure and an appropriate share of road infrastructure is allocated from the integrated budget. Therefore, I do not think that this amendment to Article 9 is good and I do not support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u37	My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u38	Funding navigation services is certainly one of the key themes of this law. The attempt to at least harmonise public financial legislation with this law was, after all, an amendment tabled by the People's Party. However, there is a whole range of problems in how to do this, so there will probably be an additional effort to be made here. On the part of the United Nations, we point out that the law actually exempts state aircraft. However, the fact is that these services must also provide all safety services for these aircraft, and I think that the costs or charges for the operation of this service must then be covered by the use of state aircraft. So we are equalising all users and, at the same time, we are trying to provide a more stable source of funding for this service.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u39	Anyone else want a word? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u40	This amendment is the essence of the extension that it will not hold what is stated in the explanation of this bill so that the fees remain at the current level. This public undertaking, as it will be, will cost more and, of course, it will be necessary to ensure a greater inflow of funds. On this basis, the fees will increase. However, if the fees do not increase, then the state will have to provide the money from the budget, despite the fact that this law states that all these services will actually be financed from fees. Since the Minister will later answer these dilemmas and these questions, I would also like to put into debate what I could not see anywhere in this law, no explanation of how many people are working in this system today in the Republic of Slovenia. So what does that mean in an organisational sense, in terms of employment? From this law, of course, I can only understand that there will be a public undertaking set up, that this public company will receive so much and so much money. What will it transfer to this public company as an infrastructure, don't we understand? It is clear that there will be a contract later and it is clear from this law that this public undertaking will have a director to be appointed by the government, to have a supervisory committee and what business plan - it is only mentioned that this public undertaking must draw up a five-year business plan to take into account, the law states, to respect the principles of economy, rationality and so on. According to this law, there is indeed a large number of strangers around this public undertaking and this is likely to be regulated in an agreement between the Ministry and the established public undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u41	Secretary of State mag. Grandma wants to answer your questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u42	Here I would like to answer some of the questions that Member Sok has asked. First of all, it's about navigational services. There are 137 people currently employed in flight control services in Slovenia. This future company, the company that will provide these services, will also have a business plan in the future, and it also has a business plan to make an accurate plan, what and how this company will operate in the future. However, the contract between the Ministry as a state institution and those undertakings will define exactly which part of the infrastructure will be transferred to that public undertaking. As far as the area of air safety is concerned. Air safety is already ensured in this form and will also be ensured by the establishment of this future company. By setting up this future company, we only want to ensure that revenues are more stable, more dedicated, in particular with a view to modernising systems and thereby improving air safety, by upgrading, purchasing new systems and by monitoring the development of technology that is developing in this particular area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u43	Okay. Is this an exhausting debate on Article 9? That's how I understand. May I have your attention, please? Comrade Jelinčič, about the 9th? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u44	Back to number seven.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u45	No, no. We're here now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u46	The case was included in this supplementary proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u47	We're at 9th!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u48	I know, only Mr President, that there is no longer a need for a debate on Article 7, because we are moving away from that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u49	That's okay. I understand you've been told what the status of the amendments is. Now you have mentioned Article 7. We closed the debate on Article 7. We stayed at 8th and can the debate be concluded at 8th? Anybody want a word on Article 8? [[No, no, ……]] Then we put it all, paragraphs 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 to the debate and concluded the debate on them. That is how we are discussing Article 10. This is where two members of the group tabled the amendments. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and of the United Nations. Anybody want a word? My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u50	It is to be expected that there will be difficulties in providing funds for the operation of navigation services, and if additional obligations are imposed by the Republic of Slovenia, for example through international contracts, it is necessary to provide funds for this, and with our amendment we point out that for the increased volume determined by the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to provide funds with additional resources, but not with regular resources from taxis. By doing so, we are trying to ensure a better performance of these services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u51	Please, mate Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u52	At the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 10, I would like to point out that the Committee has deleted Article 10 paragraph 1 at its meeting. He drew on the grounds that the first paragraph of Article 10, and also on the notice of the legislative and legal services, is inconsistent with Article 9. By now re-inserting Article 10, paragraph 1, I think it will become somewhat questionable. Of course, I would like to draw attention once again to the link between Articles 10 and 9, regarding funding. So what, of course, is intended to be further defined by such a provision, although the provisions of this amendment are covered by Article 10, paragraph 3. Therefore, it is not disputed whether the State will provide adequate funds or the competent ministry to ensure the smooth implementation of the navigation service. Again, I ask you, of course, whether you think it is right that if there is a lack of funds, then the Minister will be responsible for providing additional resources under his headings. However, if the funds from the fees are more than they actually need, we would like to keep them in our account as chicken eggs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u53	Anyone else want a word? Then I conclude with the Secretary of State. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u54	In reply to Mr Janc, I would say that this first paragraph of Article 10, which was previously unconsistent, is re-coordinated with and in agreement with the national legislative and legal services, is also formulated in this form, as it is now stated.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u55	Please, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u56	Maybe just for a little while. This amendment of the People's Party is important in so much because it speaks very clearly about the provision of funds only in the amount of the difference to actual costs that are not covered by the revenue from fees. This was previously not apparent, so this amendment is therefore important to make only a difference, not a larger proportion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u57	Anyone else? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 10. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment to Article 13, which is now under consideration. Anybody want a word? Nobody. The debate on this Article is closed. I am opening the debate on Article 16. Please, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u58	In Article 16, I would like to highlight the fact that the talks have been discussed, for example with trade unions, that employees do not have enough influence on how they can negotiate and where they can negotiate. Our amendment gives us a real opportunity, not only to cooperate, but also to obtain the mandate of the Minister, that, of course, they may even decide at some point in time in accordance with the powers they will be given by the Minister. This can open the way for employees to be more actively involved in different negotiations for the implementation of these services, particularly in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u59	Good. Anyone else? Article 16(4) Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We're at the last, that's in Article 20. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Weber, Article 20 is now in session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u60	At 20, I would point to the fact that navigation services, however, are services that have a monopoly and so far a dictatorship of the law speaks of users meeting once a year. Of course, this law does not speak of why they meet to discuss what decisions they may make. Of course, such a doctrine is overly loose, so we believe that it is still necessary to define more clearly that users are meeting more legitimately than on a voluntary basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you. Anyone else on 20? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u62	Well, we talked a lot about this on the committee. I think that this amendment is unnecessary because the basic doctrine of Article 20 is clear enough to speak about the rights and duties of users. It seems to me that this amendment does not in any way improve article 20 of the proposed law, so we will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u63	Anyone else? Nobody. Okay. We have now also concluded the debate on Article 20, and we have yet to see the last, Article 30. We have an amendment. Does anyone want an amendment or an article? I'm guessing there's no one. This concludes the debate on amendments, i.e. articles and amendments tabled to the proposal for an Air Navigation Services Act. We had a different treatment. That's what we're concluding now. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timetable today starting at 20 and 25 minutes. I hereby end this, item 2 of the agenda of the 28th session and announce the beginning of item 3 of the agenda - secondly, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act, which will begin at 11 a.m. and 25 minutes. The bill was tabled by the government. Minister Bohinc will have an introductory session by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Ministry, a nice greeting to all! We're moving to 3. Period of the day - Second defence of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the police. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill, Dr Rad Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u65	A warm welcome, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to make some introductory remarks on the discussions that have taken place between the first and second readings. I will focus mainly on those issues that have been raised, and not on all the remaining issues that we are addressing with the novel that have been largely supported in the debates so far. I will therefore focus on the issue which has been disputed for some of the debaters, namely the question of the proposed regulation of police work or some special issues in this regard. I would like to say that the analysis of the legislative procedure for the adoption of the 1997 and 1998 Police Act has shown the clear purpose of the current legislator to set up a special and independent professional supervision of the Ministry of the Interior over the specific tasks of the police, irrespective of where and how the tasks are carried out. This legislator's purpose from this time has obviously not been fully realized, since we are assessing, together with the expert, that the regulation of police control in the present, now in force law, is insufficient in the law on police law to subdue this issue, in short, that the regulation of police supervision and direction is insufficient. This led to different understandings of the Ministry's powers of supervision and direction, so we commissioned a research or expertise at the Institute of Comparative Law of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, which gave us legal, professional basis for the work, to determine the supervision of the new law on police. In this opinion, if I sum up only a sentence, two, for example, it is stated that the Minister is the one who performs an instantaneous and hierarchical function in relation to the organs in the composition and the supervisory function in the administrative process is the feedback of the information. Legal experts sum up the opinion - what I have already taken as a position - namely that the law on police in the work relating to supervision, i.e. in Article 2, is subordinate and does not define enough of these issues. Even though the State Administration Act specifies the relationship between the Ministry and the body in its composition, it is our firm belief that the nature of police work, its social roles and its repressive powers, which may extend deeply to human rights and fundamental freedoms in their procedures, must be better regulated by this relationship between the Ministry and the police in special law - and this is precisely the purpose of this novel. And something else from the practice of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court points out that effective control of police activities is essential. The specific decision of Constitutional Court No 383/98 states that judicial and parliamentary supervision is of exceptional importance, but, for the reasons already mentioned, underlines the urgency and importance of operational and professional supervision, which in such cases is primarily the task of the executive branch of the authority or the competent ministry. Similarly, the European Court of Justice in Reebok [[?]] , referring to the fact that it is a professionally impartial judgment if it is carried out by the police themselves, because it means that the supervision must be carried out outside the police. Outside the police as an organization. It is difficult to expect, I quote this decision, "that the Ministry would ensure impartial control and equality before the law if those who are to carry out this task do not have the authority or the ordinary invitation, an informational conversation, which is particularly important when it is necessary to collect the notices and evidence of the highest police representatives impartially." Therefore, as you are aware, we propose that a limited number of Ministry staff, who must be police law professionals, should have police powers in the exercise of supervision. In this context, I propose not to support amendments that abolish more detailed control arrangements, including police powers, but to confirm the basic text proposed by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Franc Kangler, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Dear Members! The Committee on Internal Policy shall be held at its 37th regular meeting, on 26. 6. and 1. 7. carry out the second reading. As Minister of the Interior Dr Rado Bohinc said earlier, in a supplementary explanation, he said that the government is pursuing three objectives with the model. In the context of the supervisory and guidance function that the Ministry has under law, it wishes to clarify the relationship between the Ministry of the Interior and the police, in its appeal proceedings against the work of the police, to ensure greater objectivity of the appeal procedure and to introduce into the law a new institution, a prohibition of approximation in the case of family violence. With regard to supervisory [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] to specify the role of the prosecution in directing the pre-trial procedure from the moment the State Prosecutor is informed of the offence. [[...]] In the exercise of the supervisory function, it is essential that supervisors have detailed police powers so that they can reconstruct the event themselves, produce evidence rather than depend solely on reports given by the police at the request of the Ministry. With regard to the prohibition of approximation, it supports the arrangement whereby the investigating judge is the one who, within 24 hours or 48 hours, has to confirm the decision of the police and the solution that this is a possible appeal against which the court will respond within a short period of time and that the investigating judge may take measures for violence for 10 days for 6 days, but only submits a proposal to the person against whom the violence has been committed. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Hinko Jenul, pointed out the need to harmonise article 22 of the Law on Criminal Procedure. The representative of Amnesty International stressed in the debate on article 15 of the novel that she supported the text proposed by the Young Slovenia Party in the amendment. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of Mr RudolfaPetan to Article 3 and Article 15 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia to Article 17. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 17 of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the debate at the Committee's meeting, the Internal Policy Committee adopted the following amendments, which form an integral part of this report. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after a discussion on the amendments submitted to the Committee, the Internal Policy Committee voted on the individual amendments proposed and, in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted by the Committee, a second reading proposal shall be drawn up on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the draft law at its 26th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 9.7.2003. In the review, there is only one amendment which has been tabled on the supplementary proposal of the law in the context of the second reading, i.e. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. I'm asking who wants the word. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! Colleagues and colleagues! The essence of this amendment to the law on police is just in this article, which is to say that these are 2.a, in particular b, c and c. If we follow the intention of the proposer, at least as set out in these articles and of course of this law, the purpose of these amendments is, in our view and in my opinion, also which is somehow in line with the opinion of the parliamentary group, at least as presented in the four points, namely, the legal basis for an effective and qualitative relationship between the ministry and the police. This is mainly about police surveillance. We all agree that effective control is necessary and necessary so that we do not lose the word useful at all. In order to resolve complaints, to prevent a person from approaching a certain person, the Minister has already mentioned this, especially domestic violence, and certain powers to the Minister. The essence of everything is, as I said at the outset, exactly in these articles, an amendment to which I am speaking. Except for the first point, these changes are of a kind of professional and technical nature. Point 1 is kind of a legal basis for an effective and quality relationship between the Ministry and the police, "and so also needs to be considered". This also seems important to me because it is not exclusively from a broader perspective and outside the context of the profession, it is also said in a political, political, political and political context. As one of the reasons for the changes, complaints are made about the mistreatment of police officers and the more effective resolution of complaints. This part, of course, is acceptable in our view. Even in my opinion, it is acceptable, it is good, it is well prepared, and the debate that was also going in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, the proposaler also took advantage of the opportunity to change what the policy wants to change in addition to the urgent change in the side door to actually monitor and interfere with the work of the police, which is the expert body in the Ministry. And this is exactly what is being collected in this amendment, in Article 5c and Article 5c. In my view, however, this supplement is unacceptable and provides a legal framework for the possible politicisation of the police. I say it gives the legal framework for possible police politicisation. The legality of such work is directly referred to in Article 2b, which states: "The supervision of the performance of police tasks shall be carried out by Ministry staff who have police powers in the exercise of supervision and are equal in their rights and duties to police officers." At first glance this is what is right, but things, as practice shows, and this need to be taken into account, must also be read among the lines, what is not directly written, but can then of course be interpreted from this. This, of course, continues also in the c-article, which, of course, I will not read all of it because we know most of it, but there are some such things that only confirm what I want to say, which is why, of course, we have also proposed this amendment to delete these articles. In addition to police supervision, Ministry officials have the following powers under the applicable law for the smooth and effective exercise of individual supervision: to request data from records, to request access to documents, etc., to interview police officers, to enter every area used by the police in their work, to attend certain tasks, to request the transmission of documents from police and workers, etc. However, it is probably the most problematic last case, for the performance of certain tasks of individual police supervision, the Minister may also entrust individual police officers who are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] or other servants of the Ministry. [[...]] Perhaps at first glance it is all right, but here are some inconsistencies that can then be interpreted in legal terms in one way or another. We know that the legal profession is a very stretching concept or that the text of the legal profession can make it very stretchy. From one extreme to the other. It's just a practice. It's probably not just us, but it's somewhere else. But we are in fact in Slovenia now, when we have other tasks, such as those in countries with long-standing democracy, so we need to take this into account. This change gives the Minister, of course, or this dictates to the Minister of Home Affairs, and I must stress here that I do not think of the current Minister, I do not mean the name and surname, but only the function, because the Minister can be anyone, because we do not necessarily change this law in the next term. So it seems necessary to point out that this does not go in the name, but in the function. Of course, it gives great powers in relation to the police. This is also, of course, defined in Article 2a, where it is stated that the Minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks within the limits of his competence and to take certain measures and report thereon to the Minister. This is once again a purely innocent matter, but if we read things between the lines, then there can be many things. As I mentioned earlier, this legal practice allows because there is no exact thing there, because two times two is not four, but it can be something else. In a black scenario, which should not be ignored, we could say that these powers can also mean a great deal of interference with the professional work of the police. The challenge of change is great; here I would say that the emphasis is on temptation. Especially since it is planned and wants to impose something in addition to the necessary changes that would be unacceptable. And now what such a change in practice could mean. I'd like to mention the following. The Minister gives the police guidance and mandatory instructions for work. The Minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks and take certain measures and report to the Minister. In doing so, police officers of the Ministry, who have police powers and are equal to police officers, shall exercise control over the performance of the duties of the police. These people may request data, records from the police, have access to documents, conduct interviews with police officers, be allowed to enter any space used by the police, be allowed to attend the execution of police duties to perform certain tasks that are not specified, but write only certain tasks, and the Minister may assign people, individual police officers or other Ministry staff. That's what you say. It's such a stretching concept. This means that the police, who could have been, I say, shot down with people from the Ministry who would walk through the police and collect data, documents, photocopy documents, direct work. However, when there are complaints, the same ministry that guided the work will be the one that the law, the proposal, organises the handling of complaints by the police. So the one who was supervised and directed and had access to all the documents, all the premises. The proposaler's claim that such enlargement is necessary because there is now a bias of control, especially the resolution of complaints, because the police are monitoring themselves, is particularly doubtful in cases where police are involved in crimes themselves. At first glance, this is true, but the question is, how many such cases are there when police officers were involved? They probably were, probably something covered up. However, I am interested in another question - how many of these cases are there, compared to all the cases being dealt with by the police, whether it's 50% or 1% or half percent. And here's the problem. As far as I know, these cases are too small, but still too many, so we understand each other, we do not approve of them, but too little to put them all on our heads and politicize the police. That's the point. In all cases, the number of cases is too small to be able to do so. Finally, we must not forget that it was at the Ministry of the Interior that the constructions that had maligned the police and their members were trying to present them as war criminals who must be in The Hague. We all probably know that this is a Vič-Holmec affair, which at this time - and probably has nothing to do with this change - is being dispersed and the police are maligned, its contribution to independence is being underestimated, the self-reliance, I do not know in whose interest, and Slovenia is maligning that I do not mention it, because we already know it, but it is at the same time. In my opinion, this is unacceptable - the same opinion is probably the majority of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - and these things are worth judging. Now whether this is a coincidence or not, we give this body, in addition to Article 2, unlimited legal powers for possible - again, the emphasis is on "potential" - political work in the police. At the head of these criticisms, police work, which is likely to have created these articles, is the Helsinki Monitor, which has been dealing mainly with family matters recently. However, I am not sure that he is doing this on his own, which describes the alleged cases of police irregularities; it is good for him to have another member of a foreign country who spits at Slovenian police and criticising Slovenian police because he did not allow the entry of anti-globalist smashers into Slovenia. This is one of the major accusations of the Slovenian police; I would say that it is quite the opposite, that this is what is good for it. And with her work on this side, we can be satisfied in this context, otherwise I do not say that this applies in general. And this is also supposed to be one - I emphasise, one - of the reasons for the urgent change of law and therefore these articles, 2.a, b, c and c, also came into this law. These are the methods by which you can also force change under the good name, so you get what you want. The proposal before us and in which Articles 2.b, c and c remain, is unacceptable. In the common context, Article 2.a is also unacceptable, but Article 2a itself would be nothing bad, it is also good, but in the context of these three, the possibility of politicisation that I have talked about and what I believe is unacceptable and in the view of the Group of Members. It is harmful to the state and citizens and in this respect it is a big step backwards, regardless of the good solution that is in this proposal and which I have mentioned at the outset. But the fact is, those good things are real change compared to the damage that could have been done if these articles, b, c and c, remained in law and we did not delete them. We are probably all for good and professional control of the police - but this must be professional supervision - but we are not for political control of the police. I once said that the fact is that the police are an expert body in the Ministry. The powers given to the Minister are great, and in any case the Minister is a political option; so it is not just us, it is everywhere, it is. However, caution must be exercised in this regard. And in this context, I have also tabled, we have tabled, firstly, the Group of Members, the amendment that these controversial articles should be deleted and, of course, I ask others to do so. Why do we want to do this? I don't think there's any point in losing words anymore. Anyone who wanted to understand could have understood that. I would like to reiterate, however, because the Minister has been mentioned many times that this does not fly on behalf of the current minister, but rather as a minister. So that someone doesn't get the feeling that it's personal insults or personal bills, but it's the minister's job and the minister's relationship to the police. And, of course, I would ask others to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Allow me only to introduce you to the order you have agreed to speak. Mr Potč, Mr Kontić, Mr Kangler, Mr Vukko and Mr Lavrinc. I'm sorry, it'll be possible to go on, but so far there have been so many deadlines and so on. Mr Pece, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Drobnic and Mrs Zupan. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the United List of Social Democrats, we will not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We have had a comprehensive and in-depth discussion on this issue on the working body in our opinion. We have examined all the issues of relations between the Minister or the Ministry and the police as bodies in the composition and also all questions of any specific police powers for the ministry staff who will be able to supervise the tasks of the police. In particular, although this is more friendly today than Mr Petan has defined in his own text, we do not accept the arguments set out in the explanation of the Social Democratic Party's amendment. It says that these proposals would intervene in the operational work of the police, which would become fully instrumentalized by the Ministry at the operational - technical level. So none possible and so on, but a claim that we believe is unrealistic, unargued and just wants to politicise the whole problem. We have also discussed this issue thoroughly on the working body. Let me first say my point of view or point out the legal solution to the relationship between the minister and the body in the composition, including the police, which is the body in the composition of the Ministry of Home Affairs, as regulated by the Law on State Administration. These relations have not been changed and have already been similar or almost literally the same in the previous regulation. The essence of these relations is as follows: the body in the composition shall carry out tasks in accordance with the law, other regulations, the work programme adopted by the Minister at the request of the chairman of the body in the composition and the financial plan adopted in accordance with the law on public finances. With regard to specific relations, the Minister shall give the Authority in the composition of the Ministry of Guidance for the work of the body in the composition. The Minister shall give the body the mandatory instructions for work and order it to carry out certain tasks within the limits of its competence and to take certain measures and report thereon. Before the National Assembly and Government, the Authority shall be represented in the composition of the Minister. The Ministry shall supervise the work of the body in its composition. The Minister may request reports, data and other documents relating to the performance of the part of the body in the composition. The Chief of Staff of the Authority shall report to the Minister on a regular basis and at his specific request in particular on the work of the Authority in the composition and on any relevant matters from the areas of the work of the Authority in the composition. All these relations, as I said earlier, also apply to relations between the Minister of the Interior and between the police. This position and responsibilities of the Minister are, in our opinion, understandable from his position and responsibilities, which he has in the system of state administration. The Minister is fully and personally responsible for his work and for the functioning of the Ministry, not only to the Government, but also to the National Assembly and finally to the public. The individual responsibility of the minister is shown in that each minister is fully responsible for the ministry's work and not only for his personal activities. In this context, the Minister is responsible for both the Ministry's policy and its implementation in individual cases. This means that he is responsible, not only for his work, but also for the work of his subordinates, of course, within the competence of the Minister. This responsibility of the minister can be exercised not only in relation to the Government, the Prime Minister responsible for his work, but also in relation to the National Assembly. We know that we have parliamentary issues, and we finally have the interpretation through which the political responsibility of the Minister is established. This political responsibility also has sanctions, and we have said many times that this is not a crime, but actually an objective responsibility if it is identified as a political one and can, without the determination of a direct fault, through interpretation, also result in the discharge of the Minister because of the functioning of the body that leads him. The Minister must therefore have access to all relevant information relating to the work of the body in the composition. So even to the police, or you can't perform your duties by law at all. No information in the body may be so confidential that the Minister could not have access to it. Not only police officers who run the procedure, but not only the Director-General of the Police, who oversees this process in a position of oversight, but also the Minister must deal with all data in accordance with the nature of his confidentiality and say that the police will protect the confidentiality of the data, and the Minister will not, it is probably a bit too far-fetched. However, the objection that general aggregated data are sufficient for the exercise of its supervisory function is not true, since the exercise of this function is not only a matter of general control of the situation in a particular area, but also of specific control over the implementation of certain activities or measures, including the relevant administrative acts. Therefore, thinking that a policeman's decision is merely a professional work and a technical process is also considered to be a long way from the truth, since at every stage of the administrative process, to be so professional, there are also valuable ingredients and discretionary behaviour. Therefore, monitoring of each stage of the administrative process is still necessary. A worker who conducts administrative proceedings, including a policeman, cannot be given direct instructions in his specific conduct because he is personally responsible for the application of the law. This does not mean that his work should not be supervised and that it cannot be ascertained whether, in a particular procedure, the law has been applied in an appropriate manner or not, and this is the point of this ex-post supervision. So this is no politicisation of police work or vice versa. The work of an operational officer, as well as his superior officers, including the general director of the police, may also be politicised without supervision. Therefore, it is not possible to deny the risk of politicisation of police work. The pure truth is that this is connected, and the pure reality is that this is related only to the work of the minister or to the powers that the minister would have with his visa to exercise control over the functioning of the police. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior, as an operator of hierarchical police control, must be able to monitor the concrete functioning and use of methods, means, measures that the police have used in some particular procedure. It is therefore appropriate to maintain Articles 2b to 2b as provided for in the law. Finally, the question was raised as to whether the employees of the Ministry of the Interior who exercise police control could also have police powers and against whom they could use them. It has been clarified that these powers are necessary to ensure that controls can be carried out effectively and qualitatively, and that the use of these powers applies only to supervised police officers and to their assessment of their conduct, not to suspects against whom these police officers have acted. This is also clearly stated in Article 2c of the Act. Therefore, the indications that these workers of the Ministry of the Interior should be used for certain specific procedures are indeed fictitious. However, if an official misuses his or her powers and gives tasks to his or her subordinates who do not comply with the law, it is a crime. And such a crime should, if committed, reach a policeman, the Director General of the Police and the Minister if he has given such an illegal order. We can only hope that the law enforcement authorities will always make the same professional decisions to all and that the police powers of supervisors cannot be any additional basis for politicisation. Their oversight activities can be improved and they know what they can do, and they do not know what might be at stake in this case. That's why we won't support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Ombudsman also notes in his annual report, this year, that police officers, in carrying out their duties, when they are committed to preventing illegal acts and to acting and using certain powers by law, deal with cases where they interfere with human rights and freedoms. Of course, any intervention in this area can result in violations of these human rights and freedoms. Special concerns are raised when a police officer knowingly wants to abuse police powers and thus violates the individual’s human rights and fundamental freedoms. The main purpose of the applicants, which can be understood from the proposed law, is to obtain the police powers enshrined in the article proposed to be deleted by the amendment's proposer. It is not the use of control over anyone, but it is exclusively the need to control the legality and expertise of police work and, of course, also to identify alleged irregularities in the performance of this work, and thus, of course, to protect human rights in police procedures. And when what the Ombudsman points to happens, of course, it is possible that the police may not decide to investigate the suspicion of an offence by a police officer and a police officer. The suspicion of such an act, particularly in relation to crimes, can be investigated by police officers, who are organisationally and hierarchically accountable to police leaders after the legislation in force so far. And since this is about investigating police work by the police, it is, of course, possible to question impartiality. The proposed regulation allows the Minister or the Ministry to consider, only directly through supervisors, so-called supervisors, the reason for suspecting that a criminal offence has been committed and that all the procedures and tasks required have been carried out, including the filing of criminal charges. The police, which also has the power to carry out secret measures, must certainly be subject to judicial and parliamentary supervision. At the same time, it is necessary, as stated by the Constitutional Court, to have operational and professional supervision. These articles, which would be drawn by the adoption of the amendment, certainly allow for this. Therefore, it is reasonable to vote against it, because in this case it is not really a matter of political control over the work of the police. As I have already said, this is done by the Commission, which is responsible for it in the National Assembly. And even when we say that a minister as a political person, a political figure will exercise control, that's not true. As such, the Minister himself will not have the authority to control. The supervision will be carried out by those who will have these police powers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I personally intend to support the amendment of the law and also those amendments supported by the government coalition. Although I must point out here that this is a very sensitive subject and subject which gives great powers to the Minister for Home Affairs and to all those which are in any way covered by Articles 2.a, 2.b, 2.c. I cannot agree with some previous interlocutors that this is not a major change in the law. I also have every responsibility to say that by adopting this amendment of the law, the Minister will assume an even greater political responsibility for his work and for the work of all those who belong to this ministry. It should be asked why these changes have occurred, up to 2.a, 2.b and c. It is clear to me personally that the current cooperation on the one hand between the Ministry of Interior and the police on the other was not at the highest level and in some ways I get the feeling that there was no mutual trust. And that's why, I have a feeling, they're also born 2.a, 2.b and 2.c. But my personal opinion is, which tells me to support this, that article 2.c, which says that if such or other tasks were threatened, the body in the body can, as the police say, suspend the control defined in Article 2nd, which seems to me to be smart and also appropriately defined. This is an additional guarantee that policy does not directly affect the content of the police's operational work. Of course, I am also asking myself in the context of Article 2b, which states that "the supervision of the performance of police tasks is carried out by Ministry officials who have police powers in the exercise of supervision and are equal in their rights and duties with police officers". This is a matter for authorised officials. I am convinced that there is probably so much wisdom in politics that it would not be possible for those persons who have this power under Article 2b to carry out certain measures which are prescribed in the CAP as specific methods and means. On the basis of Article 2b, it may remain concerned that someone in the Ministry, not in the police department, in a ministry which has the power under Article 2b, is exactly the same as the police and is in the same position as the police, and is in the same position as the police, affording an adventure under certain provisions of the CAP. Of course, it is the minister's political responsibility and supervision. I would like to say that the current political control, not over the ministry, but over the police, as far as specific methods and means are concerned, has provided the Commission of the National Assembly with thorough and effective control over those measures which it has competence over specific methods and means. As a member of this Commission, I must also say frankly that I have been most pleased with the work of our commission with the work and cooperation of the police and the ministry, that we have somehow found a common word and had an insight into all those special methods and means that directly under the law go into human rights and human inviolability. If all the other services that our commission is supposed to oversee were to cooperate so thoroughly and fruitfully and allow us to work with us as the Ministry of the Interior and as the police, the fruitful work would probably be even more important. Of course, for us it is very important and also commendable to commend the Ministry of the Interior and also, of course, in some ways, the government, which, in particular Article 39, is thoroughly and effectively processing the prohibition of approximation. Of course, this provision and these additional articles, which have been introduced, will make it easier for the police to work, those police officers who face family violence directly in their area. This is an institution of opportunity to temporarily, once again, stress that family violence is temporarily prevented in order to prevent someone from approaching the person in the process. It is true, however, that in accordance with certain articles and amendments, all those who will exercise control will have an insight into certain operational matters, both substantive and procedural. Here, of course, the minister takes even more responsibility than he has ever had. And here there must be even more and more effective political control over this work, so that no one, although my personal opinion that it is essential to have real cooperation and information, both on the one hand of the Ministry of the Interior, between the Minister and the police. After all, as colleague Potrce initially said, the Minister is responsible, irrespective of how the law on police, police and police tasks and powers have been defined, for all the work of the police, for all employees and police officers. I will personally support these changes. It is true, however, that too much responsibility, and on the basis of these amendments and additional articles, and the changes taken by the government, the Minister and the Minister should be aware that this is a very sensitive and sensitive issue. Of course, I support the effective, legal, rapid and thorough implementation of this control. Also concerning complaints concerning police procedures, that complaints are resolved quickly, efficiently and of course also professionally and that the public is informed accordingly. I will therefore support the law and certain provisions or amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Wolf's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the first hearing and also on the committee, I have repeatedly pointed out where the police were driven by some extreme notion of police autonomy. That's why I don't want to talk about it in this place anymore. The amendment that we are considering now touches, I think, the eternal dilemma: Who will supervise those who control? And from what we hear, we all say in one voice, control is needed. The question is who and how. And this is where problems or differences occur. The solution, which is now contained in Section 2 of the Police Act in force with regard to police direction and control, has undoubtedly proved to be formal and indeed insufficient. In this respect, the Ministry, in relation to the police, could provide some continuous and particularly effective control over respect for the constitutionality and legality of the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms on the one hand and, on the other hand, the implementation of the strategic decisions of the State, if you wish, of this national assembly, of the government in the implementation of the national security policy in the police field. Various interpretations and definitions of competences in the Under-Law of the Minister led not far back to the initiative to assess the constitutionality and legality of regulations in this area, which was brought before the Constitutional Court by the Director-General of Police. This is, in my opinion, unusual force, or I think it's a sort of example. It is also unusual how the relationship has been maintained in the past, the relationship between the police and, above all, the Director-General of Police and the Minister. Those who object to the solution in article 2a, in particular b, c and c, have overlooked, in my opinion, an important substance, as pointed out by my colleague Kontič, that the purpose of police powers in this case is by no means their application in relation to third parties, is to anyone, but only for the purposes of monitoring the legality and professionality of police work. In parallel, the protection of human rights in police procedures, as the practice has shown and has warned the Ombudsman that it is often violated. That is why in this novel we have also increased the impact of the lay civil society on the assessment of the appeal proceedings. I would even like to say that the whole range of doubts about the impartiality of police control would have been dropped if the issue of control had been resolved as it was envisaged in this paper, particularly in cases where it was necessary to detect and investigate crimes suspected by police officers and in cases where complaints were resolved where it had clearly been found that there were serious violations of the law and the protection of human rights. I would even like to say that such a solution benefits the police and that the police do not oppose it; perhaps some individuals in this police force leave it to others to their minds. Of course, it is not surprising to me, at least not that the European Court of Human Rights, as the motioner has highlighted in his introductory explanation, draws attention to the questionable professional and impartial assessment of legality, referring to the fact that it was carried out by the police themselves. Let us not forget the human river that applies in this regard: The crow does not turn off its eyes. And that's true, not just with the police, he probably keeps it somewhere else. Therefore, external supervision is needed and there is only one part of an organisation that is not left under control, in which case I am talking about the police. On the other hand, it would also be difficult to expect that the Ministry could exercise effective control if the employees who exercise control did not have some authority. On the board, I used the parable of "on one side people with pitchers, on the other with guns, let's go into battle." That's not how it works. Thus, people need to be given tools - those who will be empowered, who will have professional knowledge, because those who supervise must be at least as qualified or even more qualified to find out where something wrong or against the law is going on. That is why they need the tool, this mandate, and I think that Article 2c also provides a framework where clearly defined powers are given. Finally, the precise legal regime of both the direction and the operational professional supervision of the Ministry of Police, including the solution that certain persons have clear and unambiguous powers, in what way and what they can use in this supervision, is of exceptional importance for the protection of human rights, as pointed out by colleague Kontić and the Ombudsman. It is therefore clear in all these cases, at least it considers that the purpose of the disputed provisions is not in this regard, as the amendment's proponents claim, to establish political control or to directly interfere with operational work, but only for the purposes of monitoring the legality and expertise of police work, the protection of human rights in police procedures, and therefore I believe that the amendments of the Socialist Party's Group should be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since there's very little time available, I'll be quick. First of all, I would say that someone who mixes the regulations governing the minister's authority or attitude to work, that is to say to the police, with the regulations governing the lawfulness of police work, this works force to this law. He does this consciously, or he overlooks certain things. What's this all about? When we talk about directing the police work, I would like to remind you all together of the decision signed by 47 Members, that the police should not be on the road. It's about regulating traffic, where they've been taking care of the full fissure. Let them rather stand in those places where serious traffic accidents are common, in short, on black spots. Their role has also been defined by the National Road Safety Programme. No, the police didn't do it. Whom can we hold to our necks here or whom can we call to account? It's just a minister. And if the minister in this case is not able to direct police work with some general direction, of course he cannot go any further. It's also about crime, corruption, and so on. There are many words here that have always been said about corruption, and in fact it is the policy that is to blame for the fact that corruption is being or is not being detected. If the Minister does not have the opportunity to influence that we will have in Ljubljana, as the largest Slovenian city, a quality team of criminals capable of facing the crime of white collars, then, I would say in our former common language, "write the house failed". That is why, of course, these things must be in hand; I agree with the idea that the responsibility of the Minister is greater, but of course he also has the tools. And this tool is these provisions that they want to delete. I would ask you all together, tell me a democratic order in the world where similar institutions, i.e. the police, taxes and so on, have no control, no internal control. There's no such thing in the world. Of course not because these people are still exposed to corruption. Already by abandoning some conduct or by doing something they can commit a crime, of course for certain specific reasons, and it must be controlled. It therefore states that since this team cannot be so large again, the last paragraph of Article 2b states that the Minister for the execution of certain tasks of individual supervision of the police may also use individual police officers. But why couldn't police officers control the police, but the guardian said, the judicial institutions said, and even today my colleagues. That way these amendments will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. It is now in the order of order: Mr Peče, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Drobnic and Mrs Zupan, then Mr Pukšič. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u81	We are in the Slovenian National Party 28. On 5th this year, at the first reading of the Act, they objected to the basic source of the law, precisely from the opposite points of view, as advocated by the Liberal Democracy. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the basic purpose of the law should be to improve the quality of police work and, of course, it is necessary to make it more effective and to make it easier for the police to work, and certainly not what is the aim of the law in order to introduce new control over police work, namely, control by the minister. What about the minister? The Minister is a political body that changes every so long, but lasts four years at best. According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the writing of laws in the form of additional political control over a particular institution, which has in one way or another great powers with great powers, is irrelevant. Therefore, we estimate that the amendments are intended for 2.b, 2.c and 2.c., which speak of additional supervision, and of additional powers and conduct, I am speaking at the same time, with secret documents, of course, unnecessary. If we want to enable the police to do better in this country, we should approach the police and not those who are politically placed to perform individual functions. The fact is that, according to our assessment, the Minister has sufficient powers and that this minister has been working poorly in this area. But not because of the bad work of one man himself to change the law, not because of it to take the police to an area that would be subject to the Ministry. According to our assessment, the very difference between political work and a certain enforcement form of the police should be clear. Of course, this law with another 2.b, 2.c and 2.c does not set it up, leaves free hands. According to our assessment, this is not a step forward. Even more. We return to the period of the former SFRJ. This will put someone on the political line who will have all the rights and, of course, all the things arising from these rights, the full control of the police. But the police already basically have it over the citizens. According to our assessment of such a law with the existing, mentioned articles, there is no way we can support it. We will, however, support the aspirations or amendments to Article 3, which proposes deleting these according to our assessment of the bad provisions of the law. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that Members will be able to do enough wisdom and leave the police with their work and their work to the Minister to make the separation clear. Once again, I stress that it is bad to introduce a new institution, i.e. the political police institute. And by this law, in such a form, you MEPs are unfortunately legislating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! First of all, let me say that I agree with the proper professional supervision of the police. You also agree with me that every time a minister has a political mandate and also a political responsibility to Parliament, that he is aware of everything that is going on in the police force. Here you agree with methods that systematically question the correctness of police work, as methods of work, because abuses are always possible. But I'm not in favor of political control over the police through the client-occupied ministries that will always be and are client-occupied. When I look at these amendments and changes to the law, I must say that Article 2a understands and I think it gives the ministry, the minister of those powers that go to him. Although even in this article there are some things that could sometimes be misused without parliamentary supervision. However, I hope that we are so far away that we have established parliamentary control and that it is attributed the attributes that go to it so that it cannot happen. Further Articles 2b, 2c and 2nd paragraphs, however, introduce political control over the police. In fact, politically speaking, when a person goes a little bit into the past, it is not surprising that this has come to the fore in this way, that is perfectly clear. We know that the United List and its political predecessors throughout the whole period since World War II have had political control over the police and that it has actually kept it under the conditions of a new, independent Slovenian country in various ways. The civilian public and everything is only so strong and every day stronger that this thing is somehow lost. We know and know that the United List - and also its younger political brothers here on the right - realizes that this is the main lever of power. We also know that the United List makes it clear to its minister that it cannot exploit the levers of political power within the internal ministry; that the party is dissatisfied with the minister that he does not use these levers of political pressure and political power. And look, there's been a relapse in the past about the political control of the police, which we have today in the bill. In his speech, the Minister cited Constitutional Court decision No 383/98 as an argument, where the court does say that judicial supervision is not sufficient to require parliamentary supervision of security services. But it does not speak of political control within the political body, the ministry. This argument was not properly used. That argument by the Constitutional Court was in the interest of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. As a result of that decision, the amendments to the law in 2001, 126.a. were then amended. However, when we added Article 126, the same ministry exerted great pressure on or very limited powers, trying to limit the powers of the parliamentary supervisory commission. The Parliamentary Supervisory Commission and the entire assembly have maintained with great effort that the powers of the police remain in those articles under the supervision of the parliamentary commission. That's what you call working methods. At that time, the ministry tried to persuade the commission and to force the solutions to oversee it to have only a view of the statistics. The Commission's concern was that it would have something similar to what the political part of the ministry now attributed to control. But not so drastic. It is probably clear that parliamentary control cannot be abused as political control or for the purpose of abuse, because here all parties are involved and this is the most proper control supported by the Constitutional Court decision. Look what would have happened if Minister Bandelj had such an institution for political control when he triggered the Vič-Holmec case. Today, Slovenia would be in a haze court for war criminals. You think this thing would stop? With the help of such an institution, we would wipe the evidence inside the police, silence the police who then resisted. The police would be afraid because the political power of the Ministry would be so strong Veza and also the commission of inquiry for the Vice-Holmec would not have stopped it then, would not have achieved that Slovenia is not going to the Hague court. These would be political consequences if the policy had already been able to interfere with the work of the police, as these articles do. And finally, look. What the last paragraph of Article 2c says here is: "To carry out certain tasks of individual supervision of the work of the police, the Minister may also entrust individual police officers who are employed by the police or other ministry staff." This is the exercise of jurisdiction and the institution of a political commissioner within the police. This is an old institute used by the political predecessors of this party. It's an old institute. It's a political commissioner's institute. But look, when we were preparing the law in the parliamentary supervisory commission when we asked to introduce, also proposed an institute, the authority of an expert of the commission who could go to the police or to Sovo, etc., we were actually getting from all professional levels that this is not possible in Slovenia because Slovenia is small, that everyone knows that the parliamentary commission will not be able to get an independent expert who will go into control. Now the political part of the Ministry authorizes a man within the police, who will have unlimited opportunities to fear the police, etc. There may be severe consequences and serious abuses. You agree to stick with the Ministry and the police, too. What you want here is part of Parliament's control, not [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This committee for the supervision of intelligence services. [[...]] On that part, these are the competences of the Commission for Internal Policy and so on. There is a need to propose amendments, allow real civil parliamentary supervision, not by introducing these relapses that have been overtaken by practice. Fear the political police. We have the worst experience in this country with the political police. In fact, the fears of civil society are linked precisely to this, to the political police. On the basis of the introduction of a political commissioner, it will happen again that criminals will find themselves in the list of lists, "stop the matter" as was the case in the previous regime. Of course, everyone got scared and stopped. I'm afraid something like this has never happened before. I can't say here, but because there has been no operational processing of a case where politics seems to have been involved, I'm afraid the police have already acted in this fear. One thing that would have a terrible impact on the outcome of the elections in an important Slovenian city. I don't know what was going on. There's still no correct explanation. This is why the political police should not be introduced in this country. I am in favour of the powers, for the Minister to be well informed that the mandate given to him by Parliament should be implemented by the police, not by the police police. But I am against it, and I think that the Slovenian public will also act against it and that these are also anti-constitutional solutions. The main goal of democratisation is that these relapses of the past do not reappear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u85	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The rationale of the amendment of the Social Democratic Party is solid and I will also argue further. This is certainly a threat to police politicisation. Why? Two conditions should be met to implement these provisions in order not to be politicisation. The first is that guidance remains at the general level and the second condition is that control is possible in cases where the police procedure is completed. If these conditions were met, the Ministry may also supervise. Otherwise, it will be an intervention, and it will be from a political body. This is a danger and therefore these provisions are inadmissible. We have to ensure the autonomy of the police. My friend Wolf mentioned that without police powers, you can't exercise control. Do we, the representatives of the Security and Intelligence Commission, have police powers? We don't have them, but we can still control them. Why do you need this? Or perhaps to use specific methods? We will never give special methods to the Ministry unless you give them and you will really have political commissioners; this is the danger. Those two conditions that I mentioned at the outset were not respected; if that were the case, then yes. See, this article 2a, last paragraph, that the Minister may not interfere with cases in which the Prosecutor is leading the investigation. You turned that off. This means that it can enter in the way it is written, and this ministry will be able to conduct the procedure. That's exactly what's gonna happen to you. The minister will be able to say, "Please reach out to me in this case, with the diction to perform certain tasks - control of the procedure where such acts are concerned." The Minister will direct the work, will require an insight into documents, documents, orders, minutes, decisions and conclusions - yes, conditionally yes. If the case is closed at the police office, the prosecution is closed, then if there is a case at issue, it may also do so, but this is not excluded from this law. That means you have the ability to get into these procedures. Of course, our goal is to ensure the effectiveness and legality of work, but not in this way. So, on a general level and in individual cases, no, which should be clearly reflected in the law. "The Criminal Act [[...]] [[read surface]] The police may suspend the presentation of the dossier until the decision of the Minister is made." [[...]] There is a similar risk in this Article 2 that you are eliminating something, endangering life or making it "substantially difficult to implement measures" - but what if it does not make them significantly more difficult? So you can work as a minister, you can interfere. That's not a good one. As Minister, you must not interfere, even if it is minimal, with the deterioration of the implementation of the measures. We can't accept that. I conclude here because I think I've made enough arguments. I think that a fellow Member who has dealt more with this area will present it in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear colleagues and colleagues! If a new law on police is possible in the area of regulating the legal basis for an effective and qualitative relationship between the Ministry of Police and the authority of the Ministry, then in the field of restricting the Minister to directing and giving mandatory instructions to the police to take over the powers of the State Prosecutor before criminal proceedings, then more appropriate regulation of the appeal procedure, a measure prohibiting the access of a particular person, regulation of the use of coercive means, if a new law on police in these areas can therefore be adopted, and we have adopted and supported it, then there is a greater problem in the control of the police. This one certainly seems to be the most important one. The proposal is aimed at the supervision of officials of the Ministry who have police powers in the exercise of control. We have certain concerns in this regard. The question is whether a police mandate can also be used for monitoring. If so, then it is possible to talk about the existence of police within the Ministry, about a team of people with powers who occur when, for example, there is a suspicion of a crime. We believe that if a group of employees with powers is investigating a crime, we cannot talk about control. Does the Minister not already have the opportunity to perform all the supervisory functions? Novela's talking about Ministry employees. Therefore, the question is what is this attitude against those against whom powers apply. The police are supposed to be an expert body and the minister is in a political position. Therefore, there is a legitimate fear that the Minister responsible for internal affairs, as a provider of hierarchical police control, will be able to control the police, even though the Minister claims the opposite, so that he will also be able to give instructions on how a particular procedure should be decided. Fear and fear are present. Through ministerial officials with powers, this could be manipulated and politicized. It would increase the possibility of more personal control, but in what sense. It can also involve politics in the work of the police. Legal and regulatory services have concerns about this, too. Is it necessary to grant police powers to all ministry staff exercising control over the performance of police duties and to whom can these powers be exercised? It seems that the proposaler wishes to give additional power to the ministry or the minister by such provisions, right now, when there is some public opinion that the police or the director of the police are in between the current minister and, on the other hand, performing a timely and public measure of power. As legislators, we are responsible to draw a clear line between the policy and the police in order to prevent an old way of acting that can somehow affect the life of an individual and his family. Such provisions, as proposed, in any way introduce the fear of the Minister reaching over powers, either by stopping, slowing down or speeding up certain matters. We therefore expect to adopt such provisions as will not have any doubts and will not be able to repeat or arise the case of Vič-Holmec, so we support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 3 to delete Articles 2b, 2c and 2nd. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Last notified, Mr. Puksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! They are therefore asked on such topics and in such a change of legislation, including systemic issues. The fact is that police supervision is now parliamentary when special funds and methods are used. The rest of the surveillance is in the police station itself. That's probably not the best solution. So I'm in police custody. It would obviously be necessary to think in a different direction in order to have greater parliamentary control over the police. And if you have already proposed such articles, then you should also predict who those overseers will be. Certainly they cannot be the ones the Minister will appoint, which the Minister will remove and make out of these police officers, who will therefore have the same powers as the police, employees of the Ministry, and, of course, as fear-stricken, they will only supervise the police. If you had already proposed such articles and had the right concerns about how to do it in practice, it would only be logical if such supervisors were appointed by Parliament. Of course, you can do this in one way or another. After all, this could also be within the framework of an internal policy committee or whatever, but it would be that, regardless of who is in opposition or position, the opposition would have the majority in that body. As in some other commissions, budget control and intelligence services. Then, of course, possible politicisation would be excluded. Of course, all the things that my colleague Jerovšek spoke about earlier, such articles raise the fear that these things will happen again. Look! In the past, in my previous term as head of the commission on damage to social property, I have said many times that the two police have actually done a great deal of damage to social property, most of them have done. The police have written a huge complaint. The social accounting service, which also participated, helped, and so on, was a financial police, has done much in this area. Why was there such a place of social property? Because things stopped at another stage, which was too politicized and too political and self-sustaining. This is, of course, the third branch that we like to call it, the prosecutions, but if the prosecutions went through the prosecutions, the cases stopped in the courts. Today, no one has wronged the hair of Judge Šubic, who held a verdict in his drawer so long that politics through the Ministry of Justice has changed the criminal code and the law on criminal proceedings. And nothing happened. Such powers in Article 2c, (b) and (c) also, of course, raise the fear that, of course, things can happen again in this area. Something must be true. The question arises when I myself have spoken to some who are lawyers and are quite familiar with these matters, saying that if these articles were accepted, this means that if the amendments of the Social Democratic Party, which I will also support, would not be accepted, of course, the question is whether these articles will not fall in the Constitutional Court. Of course, you can't prejudge it. Certainly, however, the question is whether the Constitutional Court has not already succumbed to excessive politicisation. The most recent decisions raise doubts as to the pure political neutrality of this Constitutional Court. However, it is to be trusted that the legal system in this area will only work properly and thoroughly enough so as not to allow for such irregularities, which would therefore interfere in such important areas as those that someone outside would have, that is to say, with the Ministry outside the police or outside the parliamentary control. The engagement of some of the fellow Members in this National Assembly on these options, which the drafter has presented, seems to me to be incredulous. It is not credible, however, because these same colleagues, some of them, strongly advocated that the reports of the Commissions of Inquiry did not come to the hearing, although there was a legal basis for this, even though this same National Assembly appointed such an investigative commission. The Inkers are inequitable commissions, not a one-party set-up, but a parliamentary set-up, of all parliamentary representatives, but it has come to the point that the completed reports have not been dealt with in the National Assembly and these colleagues have done a great deal of damage. In some cases, I will try to give a slightly more concrete picture of why this point is essentially necessary to delete paragraphs (b), (c) and (c) of this Article. The proposer, therefore, considered that, in the event that the crime was suspected in the exercise of control, all the necessary procedures could not be carried out to provide evidence. What procedures? Will the Ministry staff be involved in the first phase of the forecasting process and take care of securing evidence, investigating grounds for suspecting that a crime has been committed which they will encounter in the exercise of control itself? Such interpretation is certainly far too weak in the context of the exercise of control. The procedure of individuals, on the understanding of the grounds for suspecting that an offence has been committed that is being prosecuted under official duty, is clearly prescribed. The supervisor could already be able to secure this evidence with his presence, so he certainly does not need police powers. Another time. The fact is that it is the most effective and relevant professional supervision of the work of an individual body if it is carried out by persons who are experts in the field of work under supervision. The knowledge of an individual is not related to his or her status as a police officer, but rather to his or her intelligence, expertise and, of course, other skills and capabilities. On the basis of the above, it is estimated that the explanations in the explanatory memorandum on effective and professional supervision, which can be effectively and qualitatively carried out by experts in the field of labour, who are not supervised in any way with regard to the proposal to obtain police status and powers. In doing so, it should also be noted that article 80 of the Police Act has been amended. The applicants also stated in their explanatory statement that the transfer of police officers from the Ministry of the Interior would provide for a maximum of six years for police officers who would be in constant contact with the police profession. That means, for six years you've been naming him for this surveillance, you'll have him in these police stations, and, of course, you'll actually be preventing the work of police officers in accordance with the legislation already adopted. Such powers are unlikely to be given by this Parliament. It might be appropriate to consider strengthening some of the police's activities, even now by establishing a Schengen border, when some things will be good not only for us to have an open door to the European Union, but also from the European Union to us, with various patrols. Perhaps you should consider some new things. The organisation is a matter of dynamics, what is in force today does not necessarily need to be complemented tomorrow. To complement possible new police stations, with the presence of police in several areas and so on. Don't let what's happened happen and it's been happening lately, like Šostanj. Consider other examples. This would be good if this law were to be amended in this direction, not in the direction of politicisation. In general, as I have already mentioned, when some on the one hand advocate to prevent what has been found on the parliamentary level and proved not to be a debate then, and on the other hand, an option - which is logical, the ministries will be politically divided, so we also have a parliamentary party system - but we must not let political control take place, so that the so-called political police will begin to operate in this party system. But that would make the biggest mistake. So I will support the deletion of these three articles myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Two more Members would like a word. First, I invite Mr Celigo to the floor, then Mr Sok will have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Cheligoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the regulation of the matter given in relation to the Minister and the police in Articles 2a to 2 p.m. This ensures a good enough principle for the functioning of this social structure, in which the Minister is responsible at the summit of the pyramid in this particular area. It follows from this responsibility that the Minister must also be aware of the functioning of the police, so it is necessary to submit reports, documentation, as stated in the articles, to provide guidance and guidance and to have certain other powers. We are convinced that the provisions of these three articles do not give rise to the apparent concern about possible misdemeanours that the Minister would have. We also believe in constitutional and other legal provisions, which also provide for appropriate action in this sensitive area of activity. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we reject the basic proposal and the initiative put forward to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems to me that if this Article 3 is applied, and it seems obvious that we will, of course, get a parallel police system in this country. I have one similar experience when I was a veterinary inspector. That's when a trio of blues was formed in Wurs, which began to control the work of our inspectors in the field. What happened? The inspectors stopped making decisions because they could in any case intervene in our decisions and tell us what those decisions must be. In practice, this meant a loss of independence and independence. That's what happened, and things got worse. I tell you, it's gotten worse. She fell fast. I know, I agree that there must be some kind of police control. I also know that supervision is now ensured, it may need to be improved, but if the employees, the employees of the Ministry start to oversee and direct the work of the police, then what some of my pre-provocators have said will happen. I would very much agree with the Minister if he had such an opportunity and such mandatory guidelines that what he said was to keep the police a little bit out of road control or to go where it is necessary, but not actually to be hunted if you exceed 5 kilometers of speed and so on. I drive at least once a week on a 300-mile radius. As I approach the Schengen border, it is said that when I reach the 20, 25 kilometers to the Croatian border, I meet immediately at these 20 kilometers one, two, three, sometimes even four police patrols, which, of course, stop us and control us. I hope to say that in the area of "schengen" there are many more police checks on this belt than elsewhere in Slovenia. But this, honourable fellow Members, is not the result of guidance or an order. It's the result of numbers. There's so many cops, and if they want to do something at the end of the month in those forms that I know how they're met in the state administration, when you have to write so many official notes, so many oral statements, and I don't know what else to do if they want these boxes to be filled, then they have to do so much and so much. A system error is embedded in this principle. That's how the inspection services worked, and that's probably what the police do. When I see them coming to the municipality before the municipal councils with police reports, it is only important how many measures have been taken, how many verbal reminders have been given, how many proposals have been forwarded, just one issue, one statistics. And that's connected to that number. I don't believe it's the Director-General of the Police who's been deciding how many cops are going to be in some area, etc. This, of course, is the direction and, however, these are probably the conclusions of the government, probably the minister of the department. And you can smile at the audience. I don't know. Tell me who decides who decides we have so many cops in this country. We have once troubled the number of judges, if any, we have such judicial backlogs and such ones. However, when you brought the data to the National Assembly, we found that in Slovenia there are many more judges per hundred thousand inhabitants than there are in Germany. And then what was the answer? Yes, the Slovenians prefer us to sue rather than the German peoples. I don't know if that's the answer. I would also like to hear if this is true for a police officer, that there are an average of 100,000 people around us, on average, the same number of police officers as in the European Union. I don't know. I think it would also show here that these numbers are much, much higher. If we are to achieve this, as proposed by Comrade Lavrinc, that there will not be so many police officers on the road, and that they will, in particular, be where they are needed, then it is likely that we should start to think first of all about reducing their numbers. As soon as we reduce their numbers, there will be fewer presences, and people will have fewer problems at the end of this. Or a general different direction, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to approach a completely different concept of work in this area. [[...]] The easiest thing to do is to complete this standard, this number of different measures in the field of road traffic regulation. This is much harder to achieve in other segments. I can only give you one piece of information for the final sentence. In 2000 there were 105 burglaries in the area of the municipality of Ormož, which represents 1% of the size of the Slovenian state. Of the 105 burglaries, none have been investigated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u95	Your Honor! First of all, allow me to thank you for the very in-depth, engaged and extensive debate on the amendment of the law. Although there was also some misunderstanding in this debate, or in my firm belief that the use of the wrong reasoning and reasoning was being used, I think that there was a debate about the right issue and I am pleased to suggest that from 61 articles, as far as we have proposed for the novel, the debate focused on one single article, which is Article 3, which I consider to be a great recognition to the applicant, since, for all others, the issue is obviously totally indisputable. However, before commenting on individual discussions as far as I can, since some of you have mentioned Holmec, I would like to point out explicitly that for us in the current ministry, the work of the then police officers on Holmec has been courageous and patriotic, without a shadow of any doubt. We reject all forms of profanity and condemn him severely. Let's be perfectly clear. Any integration of this debate with this debate, and somehow, I do not see the basis for this, mainly because of the following. Firstly, we all fully agree that we do not want the political police, that we do not want the politicisation of the police and that we do not want political control. Here, the level of agreement is complete. That's how I understood you. The differences between us are that one definition in the novel, paragraph 3, some of you understand by contributing to politicisation. The truth is the other way around. This provision contributes to the fact that we now have a strong legal framework for the exercise of the supervisory function exercised by the Ministry of Police. And that's a big step forward. Now these things are regulated under the law. Exactly the powers laid down in this Article are now laid down in the Rules issued by the Minister, who has been constitutionally challenged and neither by the profession nor by the Constitutional Court has expressed any doubt. We were convinced that it was a step forward in putting in place the laws of the border of control and the related powers of the ministry over the police. I think that this is an important step forward towards the rule of law and depoliticisation or possible depoliticisation. I think we agree on the basic idea. Clearly, however, there is a misunderstanding as to what this tool brings. Four public servants of the Ministry, that is half of nine, four or five, that is half of nine, as they are now employed in the Police Department and in the supervisory functions of nine are all of them: half of them work in the direction, and the other half work in the supervision. So that four, five people will be given police powers to use these powers in relation to police officers, not in relation to thirds, but in relation to police officers, this cannot possibly be an argument for an assessment of politicisation. Look, nine employees are one thousand, four or five thousand of the total number of police officers. To qualify as future political commissioners, of course, is a harsh and difficult word, and I think it is inappropriate. There's something else I'd like to say. Comrade Jerovšek set out for a long time that the minister could also appoint individual officers. I'll read you a sentence from the current law, not from a novel that reads like this. [[This is the last sentence of Article 2 of the current law.]] : "In order to carry out certain supervisory tasks, the Minister may also be responsible for individual police officers." This is the arrangement we have. For five years, we've had the opportunity to set up, as you say, political commissioners, and we haven't done that. And this arrangement remains the way it is. There is no difference on this issue. Losing words about arguments against it means losing words about arguments against the law. In short, I believe that this is an important progress towards the same goal - I am sure that we are all looking for this goal - that the law is a tool against politicisation. I suggest that you support such arrangements and this article as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In my opinion, some things were only a little oversimplification. First of all, I am glad that as a department minister, he has fenced himself from the current attacks on Korean police officers, but the fact is that within the ministry, what has been the result today is what. And I say that if today's institutes and the solutions you are giving to these so-called political commissioners were available, the matter would not stop. These are the same ideal bases and the same sources of these matters. Mr Minister, you say that there is only one article - yes, I hope you are aware that the legislative initiative of Members is now so limited that it is no longer in any law under the new rules of procedure. That's why we have bad laws, we make extremely bad laws, because I don't know when you have to predict the amendment, not when you see something wrong. This is due to this, it's not proof of a good marriage and, as you say, a wrong argument. And on your part, that's the wrong argument. Among other things, you underestimate the Institute of Political Commissioners in Slovenian history. I am aware that you are in an ungrateful role, that the party with you as the holder of the Ministry is not satisfied that you are under-utilising this political institution, that you are under-using political power within the Ministry and that you have now had to write in law some of the things with which you are a party, and some others imagine that they will have long-term power over the police. Indeed, it is possible that in the previous law this was similar, but with purely different powers, in a different connotation, it is quite different - police powers. Now it's in a different light. And there may be a lot worse abuses. Imagine that in the present law Dragos once had such powers as to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Shakes because of the political influence. [[...]] He didn't have the chance. Think about it. You have to count that there are people in there who have political ambitions, who will start exploiting them and will grow into both the director of the police and the minister at the end. But they're going to be allowed to conduct themselves from some of today's CKs. These are the dangers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate, honourable Members and honourable Members. The amendment will be voted on in accordance with the timetable of the meeting today at 20.25 hours. This concludes this agenda item. At 1:30 a.m., we will begin consideration of item 4 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on humanitarian organisations. I thank the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior very much for their cooperation. And at 1:30 a.m., we continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u99	Honourable Members, honourable Members, Representative and representative of the Government. We continue to move on to 4. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on human rights organizations. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Master Simon Vrchunec, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u100	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for your words and for the opportunity to present. The work of humanitarian organisations has become strong in both us and the world recently and has become an important part of the social and social life and development of the country. In recent times, self-help organizations have reached a wide range and are constantly expanding, both by number and by content. On the other hand, we have insufficient legal arrangements in this area, namely the grave two articles in the Social Protection Act, then the special law on the Red Cross of Slovenia and the partial or indirect law on firefighting and the law on measures in the event of natural and other disasters. Moreover, the legal arrangements for the status and functioning of humanitarian organisations have also been accompanied by acts accompanying the establishment of a fund for the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations, and it has been shown in the implementation of these acts in the past that this legal regime in the field of financing is extremely lacking. Therefore, at that time, a special need arose a few years ago for the preparation of the law on disability and the law on humanitarian organisations, which is at that time a decision to join in the drafting of two laws. The Disability Organisations Act was adopted last year and the moment has also come to join the adoption or consideration of the Humanitarian Organizations Act. The purpose of the law that you have under consideration today is to identify legal entities that can acquire the status of a humanitarian organisation acting in the public interest in the field of social and health care, then define humanitarian activities in these areas, determine the conditions and criteria and procedure for obtaining and terminating this special status of action in the public interest and regulate the financing and ownership of humanitarian organisations. In the regulatory and organisational forms of organisations which acquire special status under this law, the law follows the law on societies; thus, the fundamental organisational form of humanitarian organisations are societies as members of organisations, unlike institutions that are related to property. The law specifically specifies that, under the conditions and in accordance with the criteria laid down by law, it may acquire the status of a humanitarian organisation or may obtain the status of a humanitarian organisation, including the religious communities and those organisations which establish international humanitarian organisations to carry out humanitarian activities and are a wider part of this international humanitarian activity. As a humanitarian activity, of course, the law defines activities to achieve the noble human-like goals pursued by humanitarian organisations in the form of programmes, services to the direct benefit of individuals and are aimed in particular at the resolution of life-threatening lives, the alleviation of social pressures, the improvement of social situation, the prevention of social deterioration and the creation of opportunities for the best quality and self-reliance of people with chronic disease. Humanitarian organisations operate under this law as organisations for chronic patients, self-help organisations and charities. The law also lays down the general condition and the criteria under which a humanitarian organisation can be granted status under this law. A general condition for acquisition is that it operates in the humanitarian field one year before the application is submitted. The general criteria are: Openness of operation, professionalism, voluntary non-payment. Specific criteria and specific criteria for the organisation of chronic patients are a criterion of specificity and a criterion of numericality. The provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure shall apply to the procedure of acquisition and termination of the status, and it shall be provided that the competent minister, that is, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Social Welfare, shall be appointed by the Commission, which shall then lead the procedure. Financial transactions and property relations are governed by a specific chapter. The sources of funds for the operation of humanitarian organisations are given. Then it's [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the principle of a good master to be respected and followed by a humanitarian organisation, and that important one, is determined how the rule of law and the purpose of the use of the funds available to the humanitarian organisation is exercised. [[...]] This is internal control of the organisation, the Court of Auditors and the supervision of the financiers. So much for a start, more for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I say hello to everyone! At its 55th regular meeting on 27.6., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered this proposal for a law. Representatives of the proposer - the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mag. Simon Vrhunce and State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Lidija Apohal Vučković, headed - and representatives of the legal services, the Office of Disabled Persons and Patients, the Mountain Federation of Slovenia and representatives of humanitarian organizations, institutions and institutions. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the comments of the Mountain Association, the Red Cross, the Legal and Information Centre, and the Association for the Theory and Culture of the Handicap. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its opinion, it made specific comments on the texts of Articles 9, 12, 13, 33, 37 and 38 and on Articles 42 and 43. It points out, inter alia, the need for a definition of the form and mode of action for general charitable and self-help organisations and not just for the organisation of chronic patients. It also considers that it is necessary to further specify the consultative body in Article 13 and to define the term 'expanded professional college' and to add certain editorial corrections to the above-mentioned Article. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer briefly made a proposal to the members and members of the committee, including in oral delivery, as we have just heard. An extensive discussion on Article 2 of the proposed law and the amendments tabled raised the view that the status of the humanitarian organisation could also be acquired by institutions and institutions. In practice, many institutions and institutions are engaged in humanitarian activities and meet the conditions and criteria for obtaining status. The Government objected to such a proposal for systemic reasons, stressing that this does not mean denying other legal entities involved in this activity but is not established under the law on societies which are entitled to the status of a humanitarian organisation under this law. On the basis of the debate, a proposal for an amendment to the Committee was also put forward, but it did not receive the necessary support. In the debate on Article 5 of the draft law and the amendments tabled, the members of the Committee adopted an amendment to the Committee, supplementing the second indent, but did not summarise the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, with which the activities of humanitarian organisations would also be intended for persons with disabilities, since the functioning of the disability organisation is governed by the law on disability organisations. Although the debate expressed the view that many times there is really no sharp line between people with chronic disease and people with disabilities, this leads to many cases of disability. The members of the Committee further supported the amendments tabled for the new 7a, 7b. and a new 9a., 9b. an article defining the forms and modes of action, which is for a general charitable organisation, a self-help organisation, which, in its opinion, has also been pointed out by the legislative and legal service as a weakness. The representatives of the proposer did not oppose the proposed solutions. A proposal for an amendment to the committee that would have a new 23a. and 23b. the article regulated the possibility of integration of humanitarian organisations into the National Council of Humanitarian Organisations, did not receive support and therefore was not taken by the Committee. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and of the New Slovenia to Articles 2 and 7, adopted a new Article 7a, 7.b, 9.a and 9.b and the amendments of these groups to Articles 15, 16 and 17. However, it did not accept the amendment of those parliamentary groups to Articles 6, 11, 19 and 20. The Magnificent Messenger. However, Janez Drobnič withdrew the amendment to Article 7 and the amendment to Article 5 of the said parliamentary groups became irrelevant. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 16, 20, 33, 37, 38 and 43. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on individual articles and adopted them all. With the amendments and articles adopted, a supplementary proposal for the law attached to you is thus prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a law. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will first present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thanks again for saying that. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we have been urging the Government of the Republic of Slovenia long ago to prepare the necessary, you might even say, a necessary proposal for a law that will regulate the scope of the work of humanitarian and charitable organisations, following the normative regulation of the field of disabled organisations. We therefore accept the proposal for a law, which we are now considering, with satisfaction and hope that it will also be adopted. Otherwise, we believe that it would be better to regulate or normatively lay down the area of one and the other organisations in a single law compared to the European Union. However, after a conceptually individual approach to disability organisations, there is no other way to deal with the area of humanitarian and charitable organisations, and it is before us today. The work of humanitarian and charitable organisations is greatly expanding and is being promoted as an important part of social development, which becomes indispensable to our social everyday life through individuals who are engrossed. That is why this area is also importantly affected and defined in the National Social Protection Programme, which was adopted a few years ago by the National Assembly. On this basis, the proposal for a law should have come out earlier, but it is also good that this has now taken place. The bill provides for or provides for the initial status organisation of humanitarian and charitable organisations, similar to those of disabled organisations, which is based on the Social Act. This, in our firm belief, means that some existing organisations operating in the humanitarian and charitable fields will have to reshape their baseline status, which will require them to make a few more initial efforts after this law has been implemented, we can also say problems. Otherwise, as the concept of the law is laid down, they will not be able to access the status and thus to certain resources to finance activities and organisations themselves. More than the status relationships set out in the proposal for a law are important definitions of activities to achieve noble human rights goals that are genuine and non-profit, and voluntarily for the benefit of both individuals and groups of people, all from the resolution of endangered lives to the relief of the psychosocial distress of people. A special chapter also regulates financial relations, ways to obtain public funds for the organisation itself and for the implementation of social programmes, and control over the use of these funds, which is very important and essential for the implementation of the law in practice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill. The proposal, of course, has experienced some improvements on the working body of the mother, so the complementary proposal is even more acceptable to us. We will also support the proposed amendment to Article 2, which provides an opportunity for humanitarian organisations to be integrated into a wider organisational form, since in our view, both organisational, purpose and cost-effective aspects of the functioning of each organisation are being rationalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Respectable government representatives, colleagues, colleagues. I will take the position of the DeSUS Group on and on this law. The word "humanitaren" is of French origin, in the dictionary foreign means a word meaning charity, benevolent, humane. So, a man who has a social sense of the environment with the goal of acting for the good of all. However, the term 'humanitarian organisation' refers to a civil association which, according to the international classification of non-profit organisations, works mainly in the field of social protection and health and is part of the civil social self-organisation of interested individuals or groups as non-profit organisations, which conducts most of its activities with the assistance of volunteers. The regulatory objective is in line with the national social protection programme. Until 2005, it is necessary to ensure a comprehensive and coherent functioning of disability and humanitarian organisations in the implementation and financing of individual social health programmes. The overall regime aims to achieve a new shift and a new quality of social care for people who are in social distress or who are in need of wider assistance because of their illness, in order to integrate themselves equally into life with the healthy and improve their quality of life. We stress that there are especially many pensioners among these. We therefore need to fully regulate the situation or status of humanitarian organisations acting in the public interest in the field of social and health care. DeSUS supports the work of charities and humanitarian organisations, but we note that this is only a matter of mitigation, on the one hand, of the consequences of poverty and human hardship, and that it is important to work primarily to address their causes. In line with this programme, our political efforts to treat all citizens on an equal footing and to enable them to participate equally in society and to participate actively in it, we welcome the law on humanitarian organisations. In particular, this proposal points to the State's concern that it regulates this area. However, problems arise, and how to distribute the funds most fairly, so that we can be as happy as possible by dividing them, if we cannot succeed in making them all. Let us just remember that the FIHO Foundation for the Financing of Disabled Humanitarian Organisations last year has allocated 3 billion SIT funds to the functioning of disabled and humanitarian organisations. These are large funds, so it is necessary to have adequate control over consumption, not only of the funds, but of their remainder. The law also sets out the definition of humanitarian activities, divides the humanitarian organisation into those acting as charitable organisations for chronic patients and organisations, for self-help; sets out the elements by which organisations are classified as such. The Humanitarian Organisation shall carry out its activities of assistance to the needy, whether or not they are members of it. For the reasons stated here, the Group will support the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations. We stress, however, that it is particularly important to control, because the affairs that are taking place clearly define that certain - I will just say under the heading - "elements" also want humanitarian organisations to take advantage of their personal ambitions and interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u108	Dear Chairman! Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Nova Slovenija Group, we are pleased that the regulation of such an important area of regulation of humanitarian organisations has taken place in a more coordinated proposal for a law than was the case with his twin, the law on disability organisations, where some groups have imposed solutions that have proven to be difficult. We are also pleased that proposals, at least most of the well-intentioned proposals by New Slovenia, have also been implemented or taken into account. We are also pleased that humanitarian organisations in this area have been unified or coordinated and that they have achieved the necessary coherence on key regulatory issues, with a view to good and proper action in the future. In Novi Slovenija we advocate - which is also established in the law - for the principle of openness and volunteering, which is the basic requirement of civil society. Humanitarian organisations will be able to engage, join and cooperate under these principles. The requirements for transparent, transparent functioning of organisations, in order to prevent attempts of abuse that have been, unfortunately, in the past - if I expose the organisation of the Red Cross - are very large and obviously not stopped. Indeed, this transparency, transparency of action would have prevented those problematic things from happening at the outset, in order not to be negative and also to prevent a humanitarian organisation that is internationally in force. The issue of effective control is also taken into account - this has also been highlighted in our requirements - especially when it comes to the resources provided by individuals on the principle of charity and humanitarianism, or to the resources which the State has given up for a clear and specific purpose. It is also necessary to ensure supervision from the point of view of public funds. The question of the adequacy of the allocation of current assets. This had to be introduced into the law, and this was also our proposal, also because of negative experiences. This issue is not specifically addressed in the world, since it is assumed that those who run a humanitarian organization do. Unfortunately, in our country, at least in some organisations, which also derive funds from the budget, this has not been the case. Otherwise, it is the law to establish some principle and principles of conduct for the future. Limitation of earnings for individuals involved in humanitarian organisations - unfortunately also because of an affair that has not yet been resolved, the president or director of the humanitarian organisation, the Red Cross. And as in a mockery, this man stood well on the honorable bed of the state celebration in front of all the Members in the rear. This is also some form or way of understanding this whole issue. Unfortunately, our proposal has not been put in place so that organisations can join the world of humanitarian organisations. This is good for coming to the country and for performing in the international field. We hope that this amendment we have tabled will be adopted. We are also critical of making such a sharp incision between beneficiaries or those involved in humanitarian organisations that we have eliminated the disabled. Slovenia is unfortunately small and in every area it will not be possible to place all these people in a humanitarian or a disability organisation. We should leave our hands a little wider here. How to be one - especially because some defects cannot be clearly separated: that they are diseases or that they are a condition of disability. Such division is unreasonable, unrealistic, and pointless. Think about it, though. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - Thank you very much for the Social Democratic Party's proposal of such a solution. [[...]] Unfortunately, we are - only if the permit is finally thought - the first proposal I submitted to the National Assembly, where it would be a uniform regulation of both areas of disability and humanitarian. This law has proved to be necessary. Unfortunately, this idea has not found fertile soil, and apparently it has not yet matured. But we'll probably meet her in the future. We have also heard this from Members of the ruling coalition. We'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues! At the 25th meeting, I think the National Assembly has already considered a proposal for a law on humanitarian and charitable organisations, which was submitted by a group of Members at the time. At that time, we supported such a proposal in the Slovenian National Party. In order to encourage the government at that time to act under the law, which would further address uncertainties in the field of humanitarian organisations, since the government had not done anything before then. The government then described the proposal as unclear and contrary to positive legislation, which we then - it is evident from the magnetogram - in the Slovenian National Party has been described as an unacceptable governmental claim. Well, the government has set the goal of the law as a proponent, stated the systemic regulation of the social situation or the status of humanitarian organisations - this is what we are talking about today. The legislative and legal service - I would also like to stop in this area - has pointed out the need to define forms and modes of activity also for general and charitable self-help organisations and not just for organisations for chronic forms. Unfortunately, at least in our opinion, the Committee has not taken up a proposal to extend or summarize the activities of humanitarian organisations as activities for persons with disabilities. The government simply considered that the functioning of disability organisations already covered the law on disability organisations, which, of course, is true on the one hand. However, we cannot argue that it would not be better if a certain degree or form of disability were covered by two laws. After all, better two than none. It is also in fact that there are no strict boundaries between one another, humanitarian or any form whatsoever, and I do not think such an intervention would be critical and would not undermine the legitimacy or legality of such a law. However, in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the law is necessary. The law must be supported, in particular because of the many uncertainties that are currently in place in the field of the operation of humanitarian organisations. However, we warn the government, in particular because of its previous observations on the uncertainty of the proposal made by the group of Members at the 25th meeting, that the government has not prepared a perfectly appropriate law this time, and of course it will be in the future, but I think that very soon, some corrections should be made. So this is the assessment and opinion of the Slovenian National Party and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! However, after two years of promise, the Law on Humanitarian Organizations saw our bench. I must say that this is an important law for all those in distress from sickness, injury, disability, mental distress. However, these pressures do not know borders, they do not know political color, and sooner or later everyone is in this and it is right to approach civil society in these matters in a coherent manner and we are also aware of the importance of civil society. For today no country can adequately provide adequate and humane assistance to all its citizens if it does not involve civil society. And how civil society and its initiatives have been respected in our country, we could discuss for a long time what some critics might say from this title. In the last year, only one case of a humanitarian organisation was received from FIHA for a total of 430 tolls per capita. Of course, the Red Cross is slightly more financed, financed by other titles or other titles. However, it must be borne in mind that the European Union or the members of the European Union have somehow unanimously adopted the guidance that this civil society must be stimulated in such a way as to provide the material basis of these activities from State resources. It is only a material basis, everything else is based on charitable activity and, of course, corruption is so much less possible if this principle is followed. The law itself has undergone some repairs, but there remains a bitter taste of the inconsistencies of this matter. In fact, by definition, the humanitarian organization is in this law, and I quote: "...has been established to create the opportunity for the most independent and independent life of persons in sickness or with permanent disabilities due to disease." First of all permanent disease damage, this is already disability, so to speak, by definition includes already disabled persons. For the second time, however, the proposaler wanted to avoid the word disability, and he said only "for the sake of the disease". I wonder what if there were injuries or congenital errors. The second definition: "...self-help organisations that operate mostly" and so on "...for the benefit or interests of persons in need of support and assistance in relation to illness". Again, the definition, which is written on the skin of the disabled, but to avoid words to the disabled, says "disease conditions". And with that, he walks into a dead end and wonders what happens after the injury. And thirdly, in the definition of "these are persons who are hampered by the full self-reliance of life and are in need of wider assistance". That's a pure definition of disabled people! However, the motioner decided that this would not be a roof marriage for all sick, disabled, injured, in mental distress and so on, but for some strange combination, as if we had adopted the law on disabled persons first, we would have passed the law on LDS Members first, and this year we would have passed the law on Members. In fact, the LDS is part of the MPs, the disabled are part of the population that needs humanitarian assistance. Why am I saying this? This is because if this is not the umbrella law for the disabled, we will be in conflict with communication, with the international community, which defines this completely differently, and, of course, with the entire legislative status. Of course, we will support the marriage, for we have waited for it for a long time and, of course, if it is not the best, it is at least the same as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. The government's well-happened representatives. Nicely greeted dear colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats has been following the proposal of the Humanitarian Organisations Act throughout its creation with great commitment, as it regulates the professionally difficult and important content associated with the implementation of the fundamental principle of solidarity, openness and charity, because it is more delicate than helping all those who need it and those who may or may not receive it. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have followed the content of this law even more closely, as developments in some organisations have raised doubts about the eligibility of some charities and humanitarian organisations, and we note that the need to regulate this area has been so much greater. The requirement for a thorough and comprehensive regulation of this area is justified and necessary in such a way as to avoid any confusion and possible conflicts in the future. With the present law, the government and the ministers make promises and implement the decision of the parent labour body to justify and regulate this area. Even some of the opposition's proposals were taken into account. The time elapsed from some of the first solutions offered also takes into account the constructive comments made by members of the opposition, we believe that it has been usefully spent, since, in particular, the controversial calls made by the public and the professions regarding the status of regulation of these organisations have been so crystallized that the proposed solutions are in line with the objectives set. The solutions offered follow the development of the profession and the experience gained in the work so far, that the proposed law somehow follows our specific features. The law regulates four content sets and two general. The law clearly defines legal entities that can acquire status under this law, and these are humanitarian organisations operating in the field of social and health care, identifying the types of humanitarian organisations, their purpose and the objectives of their activities on the basis of the principle of openness and professionalism. It clearly sets out the criteria of public interest, which is very important for separating from many other possible interests. The law provides opportunities and conditions for those with chronic illness to be integrated with the full self-realisation of life. A lot of conflicting opinions have been expressed mainly in that segment which identifies the status of already established humanitarian organisations with a branch or separate law or statute, or the fate of those humanitarian organisations that have the status of an institution. The opinion was forwarded to the Ministry of Health on their smooth functioning to status changes, and this dilemma has also resolved and stated that the solutions offered do not deny, so I quote, "other legal entities involved in this activity but are not established under the law on societies which are beneficiaries of humanitarian status under this law." In particular, in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we welcome the thorough examination and justification of the fifth chapter on financial transactions and property, which identifies financial resources, funds, the transfer of income surpluses, the definition of personal benefits from operations on transparent financial transactions based on accounting standards and the method of annual reporting. In particular, we welcome part of the control over the use of public funds, which has not been sufficiently clearly defined in some segments so far. The status of the Red Cross as an international humanitarian organisation should not be questionable as the provisions of Articles 20 and 24 of this Act apply mutatis mutandis according to the interpretation of the definition set out in Articles 41 and 42 of this Law. In the Group of Members of the United Social Democrats, we expect the present law to resolve all the dilemmas and conflicts and uncertainties that have so far arisen in some way in the area of the functioning of humanitarian organisations, in particular in financial operations. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the present law along with the amendments adopted on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. The present law reopens the debates that have opened up in the adoption of the law on disability organisations. About being erased between patients with chronic disease who are supposed to be assisted by humanitarian organisations and people with disabilities who are supposed to be cared for by disability organisations. Once again, we were aware that, with two separate laws, we are unique in Western Europe, and no one, not the government representatives who have proposed the law, nor the representatives of all these organisations can imagine how this divide will be drawn in real life. Only someone who is actually coping with the problems of a disease can tell us how we will make his life more difficult by adopting this law. Would it not make sense to have a single law covering both disability and humanitarian activities? The Law on Disability Organisations has now been passed, and therefore there is a law on humanitarian organisations ahead of us. The fact is, in all of this, I feel that the adoption of this law is not about who will be a member of these humanitarian organisations, who will now have to be organised as societies or associations of societies, but about who will be eligible for funding from the Foundation. [[FIHO]] . It is quite clear that humanitarian organisations cannot operate without funds, and it is also clear that the government has decided to make order in the allocation of funds from this foundation. The disorder that has so far reigned in this area has been called by the system’s law, since so far it has been regulated only by the rule of law. As a result, only some humanitarian organisations received funds under this Regulation, although some were set up for aid and humanitarian activities, not. The Government, as a bill-maker, has decided that humanitarian organisations can be organised as legal entities on the basis of a social law. And that's where the trouble comes in. Some humanitarian institutions already operate as institutions or have a different way of organizing them. And that's what these organizations will be if they want to run for Foundation funds. [[FIHO]] , forced to change your legal status. What will happen to these organisations in the meantime, what will happen to their operation, how they will be financed, and how nobody can explain it to the committee. On the other hand, the newly established organisations will have to operate for one year before they can apply for the status of the humanitarian organisation and thus obtain funding. I understand the proposaler's fear that the mass establishment of societies could result in an unintended use of funds, but acting without the possibility of obtaining funds for a year and then proving that society is working successfully can be very, very difficult. I agree that there must be a limit, but there must be a condition in order to separate the so-called seed from the weeds. We agree that this could be shorter. The Parliamentary Youth Slovenia parties will support this law, but we expect the proposaler to make an effort to address these inconsistencies until the next hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Stana Stopar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to all in attendance! The proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. This proposal means the realization of the second part of the mandate to regulate, in addition to the status and functioning of disability organisations, the status and activities of humanitarian organisations. We therefore have before us a law whose aim is to systematically regulate the social situation or status of humanitarian organisations acting in the public interest in the field of social and health care. We have followed the bill carefully in the Liberal Democracy Group. Especially in the face of the question of whether this law is needed at all and whether it would not be better if all the problems of this area were regulated in one common law. We also agree with the argument that it is difficult to define the limit, for example, between chronic disease and disability, so we join the argument that there is a choice by law, but there can be no double status. In many of the comments sent by certain societies and NGOs, the desire was expressed to find solutions in the Humanitarian Organizations Act, which would place humanitarian and disability organisations at about the same level in terms of the field of action, particularly in obtaining financial resources, as demonstrated by a broad debate on the labour market in the consideration of the bill. And the sense that the law under consideration is more of a law on the financing of humanitarian organisations has been very much present. In the LDS Group, we will also support the law's complementary proposal because it gives companies, NGOs and religious communities the opportunity to gain the status of a humanitarian organisation; it also gives clear criteria or conditions for obtaining this status. It also provides an opportunity for newly established associations interested in working and meeting the conditions for obtaining the status of a humanitarian organisation. The law therefore defines the activity to achieve the noble, humanitarian objectives pursued by humanitarian organisations in the form of programmes for the benefit of individuals and groups. These programmes are designed to solve life-threatening problems, alleviate social pressures and problems, that is, create opportunities for the highest possible quality and self-sustainment of life. In the LDS Group, we also believe that the whole regulation of the law can serve the fundamental objective of achieving a new shift and a new quality of social benefit for people in accidents, social distress or disease needs assistance. We also make a positive assessment of the specific chapters of this law, namely financial transactions, property relations of humanitarian organisations, the principle of good governance and the control of legality. So we'll support the marriage. However, the Group of Members will not support the amendment to Article 2. The amendment is, if you take a good look at it, a copy of Articles 25 and 26 of the Disability Organizations Act. We believe that the uncritical introduction of this into the law on humanitarian organisations would be inoperable. We have also heard at the Committee's meeting that representatives of existing societies concerned by the law have expressed the non-necessity of a national council that does not live in practice. At the same time, we believe that this world would only be designed to meet one type of needs, interests and purposes, while the humanitarian organisations law carries more of these areas. We will also not support the amendment to Article 5 of the Humanitarian Organisations Act, because we believe that this activity already has two other laws, namely the Disability Act and the Disability Organisations Act. We will support the amendment to Article 9a, which is editorial and improves the text. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the delegation of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities will be presented by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u120	Your Honor! I welcome the Ministry's move to put the law into procedure and, of course, I will support the law. Humanitarian organisations are expected to establish and act in the public interest in the areas of social and health care. We know them as charitable, philanthropic organizations that offer free aid to people in distress. They operate according to the principles of volunteerism, openness as non-profit organisations. I believe that such organisations and societies are more developed in cities than in rural areas, although their activities would be useful and welcome in the rural environment. I am therefore surprised by the position taken by the bill's proposer to restrict the development of humanitarian organisations. I do not know why humanitarian initiators should first set up a society and only apply for humanitarian status after at least one year of operation. What needs so much administration and mistrust of people who offer their help to others voluntarily and free of charge? In doing so, I do not mean the need to control spending, financial operations and annual reporting, both for societies and humanitarian organisations. I propose that the acquisition of the status of humanitarian organisations should be simplified, that the possibility of obtaining a status should also be provided, at the same time, with the establishment of a society without explicit conditions for the future existence of a society, provided that the applicant has an appropriate work programme and meets the other conditions. In this respect, I expect a correction to Article 2 and Article 20 of the amended proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments of 9.7.2003. We have three amendments, to 2nd, to 5th and 9th. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u122	We agree with the position or statement of a fellow Member of the Liberal Democracy that the Council of Humanitarian Organisations is identical with the saints of disability organisations. Either way, it would be wrong. That's too bad. I wouldn't give any extra energy for that either, to discover a new pool. It's about getting this thing done in the same way. But it says in the law "may" - they connect, there is no commitment, and this gives some direction. I think, if I don't remember correctly, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour also mentioned when we proposed this amendment, so that it might be welcome, especially when the State is talking to civil society, so that it has an undisputed representative and is governed by some principle of regulation. So the state doesn't force anyone to go in there, not in principle, but on their way in to do it. I therefore propose that this amendment be adopted. Of course, we will vote on it in the evening. These are the key reasons. This is the possibility. I don't want to see us seeing each other again in six months and find out that we're missing this and we're going to be fixing the marriage again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo has the floor. Then in the order of their notification: Mr Brenčič and Mrs Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Of course, I would stress that we will support the amendment to Article 2. It's called an amendment that talks about the national world. I think it's a good opportunity to open it to humanitarian organisations as well. However, I would particularly like to touch the amendment on Article 5. In fact, Article 5, which describes the content of the work of humanitarian organisations, states in the last indent that the field of work is in the creation of opportunities for the highest quality and independent life of people with chronic disease. This is where I ask myself, what about the injury? Can't a humanitarian organization then, or can't, give these people a chance to have as quality and as independent a life as possible? This raises the question of when chronic disease occurs, for we know that for many years and years an acute disease can end, it can heal, but it can become chronic. The concept of chronic medical disease is unclear. There are areas of disease where it is clear that it is a chronic disease, and there are areas where it is clear that it is only an acute disease and there are areas where it is not clear. And I'll just give you an example. An example of alcohol addiction. If we take into account, as the introduction of the law states, that chronic illness is the one that is incurable, alcohol addiction could always be considered an acute disease, but it can also be a chronic disease, and it is still curable. That is why I would suggest that this dictatorship be corrected. And also to pay attention to the disabled, for they are diseases that lead by their legality to disability. When this disability comes, we don't know. All we know is when a patient is granted disability status, for example, multiple sclerosis. Of course, we have the Union of Blind and Invisible Associations, we have the Association of Multiple Sclerosis, which is a disability organization. And here the members of this disability organization were once completely healthy, and then gradually the disease that lasted, lasted, and became completely destitute, and then the SPIZ granted them disability status. So when? Can a humanitarian organisation only be granted disability status or later. In short, this nonsense, all the nonsense that is reduced to this indent, expresses the fear that the legislator or the proposer was terrified to smell anything of the disabled. And he decided on one such impossible dictatorship, quote, "a person with a chronic disease" and limited humanitarian aid to them alone in this indent. We therefore propose that this indent should be broadened, released, liberated and that we say in this indent, 'the creation of the opportunity for the best quality and self-sustaining life of the sick, the injured or the disabled'. I suggest we don't rule out any category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There will be no misunderstanding, Mr Tsukati, you have discussed the amendment to Article 5. However, I think that everyone has notified themselves, as I have announced, that I am opening the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. There is no problem with Mr Tsukati, only for others who have become a little confused, whether we are now discussing amendments to all articles, so we are now at Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. Mr Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Personally, as a member and also as a member of the Group, I do not mind who has been signed under a certain amendment. Especially when the matter is being discussed and regulated, the matter as it is brought about by this law. I don't mind. I'm interested in content. And from a conceptual point of view, I do not understand the proposaler as rejecting the content of the amendment to Article 2, this content that we have already wanted to include on the committee. Why? In any event, it makes sense that some voluntary material that forms part of a voluntary initiative unites into an organization, one or the other, one or the other. Firstly, in order to reduce internal contradictions, because they operate more or less in the same area, to increase their impact or effectiveness in communicating up to, if nothing else, state authorities and other institutions, and that we have some kind of representative body that can represent or represent this area externally in the international dimension. And I don't understand how we reject that. What this area will be outside, within the Red Cross - it can, but it is not a genuine and comprehensive solution. What will this area be represented by the National Council of Disability Organisations in international communication? Nor do I see a solution, and I don't know why we somehow don't accept the content, which, as it were, was taken with approval or accompanied by a State secretary from the Ministry of Labour, who, from a genuine experience in the field of social, social policy, has quickly found that the proposal is placed and not uninhabited - it is necessary. That's why I don't think it's really possible in this case to lay on some trench because it didn't come from our logs, but it's not good. That's not true! We'll make a mistake. I am confident that we will have to put this matter back into practice in additions or changes to the law very soon from European comparable links, indeed. I reiterate: let us reconsider and leave who is proposing this law. Or have a government representative serve - or a proposaler with concrete arguments, but I'm afraid he won't get them. Just as I would not have received them for a number of shortcomings of the underlying proposal, if not for the mother's working body, including amendments that may not have come from coalition types, were added and the content of the law made them a good product in the final stage. I therefore call on you to consider, in the inter-mesia, deciding on the content, not perhaps the amendment's proposal. Of course, our parliamentary group will unanimously support this amendment or amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u128	I, Comrade Brenčič, would see the prudence and somehow justification of Article 2 for the creation of the National Council of Humanitarian Organisations. If nothing else, we will somehow take one sample from the Disability Organisations Act, as well as its discussion that there will probably be future concerns about some representation within humanitarian organisations. But we Members are full of the mouth that we actually have a very important public interest and that we are all talking through how little civil society is heard and that it is not strong enough and I do not know what it is all about and that we do not allow it to give its opinion. If I recall correctly, Mr Brenčič, we have also had some concerns on the committee, precisely from this point of view, why not the National Council. And finally, if we look at the law itself and the status of these humanitarian organisations, we can see that these are more or less societies and we know how societies are being established. And it's perfectly logical that all these concerns have been put on the board and are possible here today. And it is normal that there is doubt as to why the national world, because we can also think the other way around and put it differently. Why should a country and a world set up by the State always force certain people to do their work? The State has the opportunity, as well as the Ministry to observe, control and control the operation. Through this law, the State has actually prescribed how these organisations must operate, how they are teamed up and so on. I can only say that for me it has also led to the thought of all those who should not be united, because the activities of these organisations are so wide, so varied by content, by mass, by how many regions and how much it covers in one way. Some are so wide that they cover completely all of Slovenia, some just one segment or just one area and activity. I don't know, maybe I didn't get you, but I did. In Article 8, which also has the title "Cronically Diseased Persons", it is only affirmatively stated that these persons are also given here in some way. In fact, I can still say that I think that humanitarian organisations can combine in an interesting way so that they can combine as a consortium of ad hoc according to a particular project, programme and problem, completely enough. And if they so find, and the country, through a national social protection programme or possibly through other national programmes, can, and also provides, some guidelines, how and in what way these public funds will be channelled to some humanitarian organisations. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič was named, and since he was misunderstood, I give him my word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Colleague of Črnugljeva, precisely because I know how to establish organisations under the social law, and because I know that this was a basic starting status postulate of disabled organisations, because they only have this foundation and nothing else, and that it was practically blasphemous to say that we did not let individual organisations connect, precisely because of the successful communication against state authorities - you know, against the country - we were uncompromisingly insisting that we gave this opportunity. And more than that, there will be one external interlocutor within the European Union. That is why I say that the conduct in this sense is also pure duplicity, indeed! I don't have the content to tell her apart. There is also no need for a humanitarian organisation to operate throughout the country, from Ratec to Lož, from Kopra to Lendava. However, it makes sense that these humanitarian organisations, so as not to be so fragmented in the country's communication and externally, are linked; and they will certainly be a much more compatible body for the good functioning of organisations as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič wants the word again, and then the representative of the Ministry of Health, Mr Vrhunetec, receives it. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thanks again for saying that. Ms. Črnugljeva - at the same time, I would like to replicate - if you do not want this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u133	This is a debate, Mr Drobnic, because Mrs Črnugljeva did not mention you in her implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u134	So if we don't accept this amendment, the world will not fail, humanitarian organisations will work, that's for sure. However, in many ways they will make their work easier and make it easier for the public authorities to work together, to cooperate with whom to invite when 70 organisations will be, say, the Ministry of Health, Humanitarian, Charity and I do not know what else to do. Okay, so you're just gonna invite 100 or 150 of them to this interview. When you want to highlight an area, you will be the ones who, when you want to expose another one, will be exposed in this way. That's one way to work. If we do not accept it, or if you do not accept it, the world will not collapse; but if we accept it, it will be a major relief. And maybe all those homats that will eventually arise are going to be the very principles of this initiative. I'm sure they'll figure out how to do it and ask how to fix it. But here's just the country that's going to give an inconvenient framework. That's what this is about. And what Mr Brenčič said was that it was a duplicity, otherwise it is impossible to say. For such passionate engagement with the National Council of Disability Organisations, even under an additional condition of representativeness - even worse than the state imposes. I don't understand why there isn't at least a benevolent on humanitarian organisations. Could it be the second grade and they're first class disability organizations, maybe it's the second grade? We will have to explain several times to the international public. But now I'm touching on why we're going to have humanitarian and disability problems. They will immediately ask us whether disability organisations are not humanitarian organisations. Don't they work under the principles of humanitarianism, philanthropy, and I don't know what else? That's what we're gonna have to deal with, because we went double. That's how it's gonna The world understands that. That's what it's all about, not that the marriage isn't going to work out if it doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the state, Mr Barovic. [[...]] Mr Secretary of State would like to see you at the end when the Members are exhausted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. It was not my intention, because everything has already been told, but it seems to me that this is the last implementation, at least to me, and I think in other Members, it has only aroused some interest in the amendment to Article 2. After all, as Mr Brenčič said, let us forget the signature that is on this list and the texts below; "may" is an alternative that gives and facilitates the integration of one or another type of organisations. For let us not forget that this moment can be said, as we have heard, because in fact, all possibilities are for organizations to unite. Yeah, that's right. But it can happen the other way around when these organizations want to connect, and someone - I say the other way around - says sorry, but the law does not give such a possibility. These options and options are enormous, so I think it is good that a few words have been spoken about the amendment proposal to Article 2. I think that the last paragraph, which sets out the exact content and this option, the word "may", which is also very important, seems to me that it would not cause any harm at the time of acceptance. But it's like a mag. A trifle said, but it would probably make it much easier for the next and further integration, in this case of humanitarian organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Secretary of State. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. In fact, it is difficult to add more substantively to the implementation of Mrs Montenegro, which has very precisely summarized the arguments for why it does not support this amendment. I would only refer to Mr Drobnik, who stated that there is no tragedy if the amendment is not accepted, but that he would make the situation significantly easier if accepted. I would say this: already there is an option, even if this amendment is not available, and when this law is not available, it is possible for humanitarian organisations to join in groups, including in national councils, to sign contracts with each other, etc. However, I would say that at the same time I wonder what the purpose of this law and what the objective is in fact, as we have followed it through the law, is to define how a civil sphere or entities within the civil sphere, how they work or how they should work, not how they can operate. This is a sensitive area of action of civil organisations, and it is very important, by the way, how we do it, and now, from our state, regulatory level, we tell them how they work. Even now, why not, in fact, such an amendment. It can be this message for them, by the way, by even denying their operation, if perhaps a bit harshly preconceived thinking. Let me say that in the past there have been several attempts to unite humanitarian organisations into some groups, into some world; and, on the contrary, there is no real energy for such a merger to occur. And even on the committee itself, the organizations have made it very clear that such an amendment would not be supported or that it would not imply thinking in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Can I finish? How would you like to discuss Article 2, Mr. Tuckyat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. I'm certainly surprised by the Secretary of State's performance. In fact, when we passed the Disability Act and when we talked about the National Council, on our part, the only comment was that there were too many, too narrow, too strict criteria for the participation of the Disability Organisation in the National Council. We wanted this world to be functional, to have the power to work and in some way to be humanitarianly able to involve disability organisations and also to resolve disputes between individual disability organisations and not to continue the monopoly of individual lobbying. Of course, at the time you said that it must be such a criterion that it must be so narrow that the national world must be, otherwise it is impossible to coordinate the disabled and to cooperate that the representativeness of the disabled must be ensured through the national world. If this is not done, if this is not so harshly put, disability organisations will be lost, somehow in some legal confusion. Now that we have the same arguments that it is necessary to enable them to form a representative body, you object. If we do not write down - of course they can unite, only their representative function has no weight, it is not defined in the law. It's a lovers' association, if that's what you want. But if we say that they can unite and the law gives them certain powers, if they unite, then this is something completely different. The law would thus open up the possibility of an organised performance and make it easier for the state to communicate with a number of humanitarian organisations. I don't know, I don't see why, I don't see. I wonder how this: don't you see; whether you don't want to see it now, you speak quite differently than you spoke to a disabled organization and even in this sense, if only today's debate and you listen to your reasons, I don't understand them: A little bit, I don't understand them.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u142	Just for a little while. We're not talking today about the law on disability organisations, we're talking about the law on humanitarian organisations. I reiterate that the purpose of this law is in fact that, as a regulatory body, the State checks whether individual organisations, not groups, individual organisations meet the conditions for obtaining a status and then the verification by the State and by other authorities, how they meet the requirements or the ratings of this status. I reiterate, but there is no rating in that they will unite in a national world specifically in this communication, as you emphasise, to the country. Within the meaning of this law, the State will communicate with individual organisations, with each of them, as I have stated, and as the law also states. Again, I stress, once again: even without this article, humanitarian organisations can unite into some organised groups and perform when necessary and in this sense, not here against the country, but outside, as has been said, they can also go somewhere in other environments than these groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I can therefore conclude the debate now. Excuse me? Slovenian people's parties? It's gone, I'm sorry. I'm concluding. I'm sorry, there's no time left. So I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. I am opening a debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. To this article, Mr Tsukati has already explained in the previous part of this amendment. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u144	I welcome this amendment prepared by a fellow Member or by the Socialist Party's Group of Members - what we have already said in the introduction in Novi Slovenija. So, do not harshly distinguish disability from disease, chronic illness, and many other things. After all, it is also by our definition, if you look at them, because there are so many disabled organisations, we do not have a national definition yet or classifications, we have as many classifications as there are of these state resources, so it would be difficult to identify this. In order not to create any restrictions, in particular when applying for funds from the State budget, or from the withdrawal of contributions, this amendment is very welcome. At the meeting of the Committee, I asked whether this would mean that the humanitarian organisation would apply for an invitation to tender for funds from the Foundation and would also spend money on persons with disabilities. For example, in Upper Kungota there is a group of people with disabilities, mentally or mentally ill, who are involved in a humanitarian organisation and will run for funds. Are they going to be taken away from them? Well, you see, it can happen because of such a sharp limit. So I asked the Secretary of State what that meant. Does that mean they won't say no? Justification: "You have your marriage, your disability organization and run through it." That's not human! That's not natural! But you know, it doesn't make sense! We're not throwing anything away to invalid organizations, nothing at all - that's what this is about. I therefore support, strongly support this small amendment to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam President. In fact, there is a strange situation at Article 5 compared to Article 8. In the Slovenian National Party, for example, we support the amendment to Article 5, but obviously there is some importance, as Article 8 specifies the exact term, the term "chronic disease". So I think it wouldn't be bad here, I don't know if not now, but in the near future, to design a professional properly. I can be convinced that chronic disease, as defined in Article 8, is either disability or not; this is why it is professional. That is why I think we need to be careful in the preparation of the law, but to be careful that we always point out that someone else can work hard when preparing the law, but unfortunately these laws are still ready for quick, superficial. In this case, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I will say that we are inclined to support the amendment to Article 5, which is otherwise different for a minor in the last line, in the line, in the line paragraph, with a foreign indent. However, I think it is a warning on the spot that we will also talk about Article 8 and perhaps the amendment of Article 5 or there must be a very important difference here. So I think we need to be very careful with both articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u148	It is not natural, it has been said that we have a divorce between disability organizations and humanitarian organizations. I'll say, obviously it's natural. Obviously, it is only natural that people can be divided into different groups according to some different criteria. Why did it not happen, Mr Drobnič, before the common law - you yourself have asked this question, I have also put it on the committee and now I am re-setting it. Obviously, it was natural. Clearly, from practice itself, there is a tendency to need two laws, a law on disabled persons and a law on humanitarian organisations in this area. And all of us, including the National Assembly, have accepted this fact, when we have dealt with the disability law separately first and now the humanitarian law. However, what we have followed strictly through this law is the principle that a legal person, or an organisation, who receives a special status in that country and who also allows it through this status then has some credibility that this organisation cannot receive this rating or this special status twice. That's why we avoided here so that the disability organization would open the door to entry into the system under this law. It is very important, and we have also written it down in the law itself: one organisation can get this special status only under this law only if it does not have special status by another, by disability law and vice versa. That marriage is also supposed to rule out status under this law. Again, let me stress that; we have discussed this law very widely. That is why something later in the National Assembly, we have discussed very widely in this public, interested in the public, about this law and also the opinion of this interested public that it must be regulated in the same way as it is regulated. By the way, the disability organisation itself on the committee stressed, or their representatives, that this arrangement, which is proposed, is appropriate and would be opposed to any other arrangement. I think it is our duty in this particular case to simply respect them and to accept such dictions as have been proposed on our part.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. In order of order, as you have stated to the floor, if you allow: Mr Tukjat, Mrs Črnugelj, Mr Drobnič. Mr. Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. However, I would also like to awaken the secretary to the feeling that this is an important matter, if you allow me, a very short comparison. In Slovenia we have about 100 clubs of treated alcoholics. This is a wide range of humanitarian activities that have done a lot of good, and many alcoholics who have been cured have made sure that they have not fallen back into alcoholism. So their alcoholism is not a chronic disease under Article 8, because it is healing - he has healed. Because these are clubs of treated alcoholics. Under Article 8, this is not a chronic disease, of course, because it is not. In medical terms, alcoholism is not a chronic disease, it is healing. So all these clubs fall out - if we maintain the dictatorship that "only chronic diseases" - with this indent on creating the opportunity for the most quality and independent life of people with chronic disease, and we do not allow it to be an acute disease, then you will delete all clubs in Slovenia treated alcoholics. I know some of them, I've been working on something - it's not gonna be good. Another case concerning disability, which we would also like to add to the indent. It is certainly - and we support Article 2, which states that an organisation cannot be at the same time a humanitarian and at the same time a disability organisation and from two titles draw funds. Sure, okay, great. However, why should not a humanitarian organization also include aid to an individual disabled person, because, as I said, the disease is progressing. Diabetes is also progressing, and in some condition, of course, this patient is in the society of treated diabetics, and at some stage the SPIZ admits disability due to so many and so many consequences of diabetes, admits to him disability. Whether this 20 - year - old society should no longer be able to help or be burdensome or unable to present itself as a member or like. No, gentlemen, because of some, I'm sorry, incomprehensible starting points to limit the work and work of humanitarian organisations. And the Secretary-General said that this law is intended primarily to determine the criteria and procedures as to how a humanitarian organisation is defined and registered, and Article 5 states exactly the content of the work and makes it clear that the humanitarian organisation will have to meet these criteria if it wants to be registered as humanitarian. That's why I don't know. I suggest you accept the amendment, if you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I do not see any obstacle in this law that any disabled person would not be helped - any humanitarian organization under this law. And I think that when we passed the Disability Organizations Act, we actually talked about it so much, and I happen to have it here with me today. Article 7 defines the activity of disabled organisations which, in accordance with the rules, act also as a society, as well as humanitarian organisations, and may carry out profitable activities as well as other activities in accordance with other laws adopted in the field of Slovenia. And in fact, you know, help - to whom assistance is offered, humanitarian aid and otherwise - is not limited at all. In fact, this law has made it possible for people with disabilities to be given this aid very widely, among other things. And in fact, there's no way and there's no record of a disability [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] get some help. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u154	There is no fear as the humanitarian organisation acquires the status of a disability organisation or vice versa, since in Article 2, paragraph 2, we have this written down. Thus, this divorce is sufficient when you explained earlier, and then how not to have a double. It's about not being forced to separate. We have separate organisations in this way. It's just like you said. The genetics of the formation of laws or activities of disabled and humanitarian organizations in Slovenia is, you don't want, such that it produced two systems. But maybe in four years we'll be able to bridge these barriers and make one. It takes time to mature, obviously. Some people aren't ready for that yet. But there's no fear of double. I was just asking if they were going to expel people like that. This could, however, have happened, so we said "disabled persons" in order to avoid or avoid such problems. There's something else I'd like to touch. Chronic disease is a chronic disease, but disability is not included as a result of injury. The law has this flaw. It was necessary to find a definition of separation. Okay, so you've made up your mind or we've gone for this chronic disease. But there's a risk that we eliminated the disability as a result of the injury. This isn't a chronic disease. So there would be nothing dangerous for a disability law, I'll tell you that you don't. But it will be good for those to whom the law on humanitarian organisations is intended.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you. Look, I wouldn't be stalling for much longer, not even this debate. I'd only add so much to what I've said before. For all the cases that you are mentioning, you will find space within the three types of organisations that we have identified in this law, including your proposals. Let me tell you, it has been further improved now by Article 9a and Article 7a, it is said that you will find a place either in this law or in the law on disability organisations. In short, and no fear of anyone falling out of the system of charity and humanitarianism or disability.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article and open the debate on the last article and the amendment to this Article, which is Article 9a, and the amendment was tabled by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. So, I conclude the debate and inform you that we will vote on all three amendments, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today at 20.25 hours. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. And we will continue our work at 3:15 p.m. when we arrive at the 5th item of the agenda, which is to consider the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, a reduced procedure. Thank you very much. We'll pick it up at 3:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u158	We're moving to five. At the end of the day, that is to say, a bill on amendments and additions to the Act on the protection of the elderly and the social benefits, a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, Secretary of State, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The Law on Parenting, Protection and Family Benefits is one of the most complex laws in the country, which, together with the rights of parents and material assistance, provides for the protection of parents and mothers, material assistance to children, especially those in need of special care and protection. The objectives of the law were already set by a resolution on the fundamental design of family policy and complemented by a modern-day view of parenthood. This is where I especially think of equal parenting. There has also been a lot of talk so far about bureaucracy, the exercise of rights, and I would like to stress in particular that this law brings more than 30 possible rights, and a number of combinations, which means a lot more procedures, but, above all, a lot more rights and choices, which is undoubtedly in the interests of parents and children, which was also the aim of the law. With all three adopted rules that allow for uniformity in the exercise and exercise of rights, we also establish a parallel information system, which, once fully completed, will also allow for the rescheduling of procedures, greater transparency and thus greater fairness. When it's finished, there'll be over a million users on the record. For general information about the law, we have also issued information materials, and in every change and exercise of rights, we inform the public. While we note that some administrative and other additions, such as the electronic exercise of rights, will need to be made more informed, but we can say that with the law on parental protection and family benefits we have received one of the most advanced and, as far as the rights of parents and children are concerned, one of the best systems in Europe. Let me mention at least some data indicating that the new rights law has achieved its objective. He raised the percentage of men who benefit from care and protection leave from 0.9% to 1.6. On average, 90% of fathers benefit from their father's leave. The partial payment for lost income currently benefits 172 parents, the right to a shorter working time of 749 parents, the allowance for a large family last year is enforced by 23 964 families. With the exercise of the right to a longer leave, let me say that the law gives the possibility that one of the parents may stay at home for up to three years with full compensation, but the father and mother may be on extended leave for another year after the first year. Up to now, 42 000 have benefited from the welfare benefits, an average of 406,000 children this year. In addition, the right to an increased child allowance for children who are not in kindergarten, which was applied by beneficiaries to 34 508 children, has also entered into force. In short, the law offers the possibility of some choices that parents can benefit from according to their own and their children’s needs and options. In order to ensure easier implementation and enforcement of rights in such a complex law, we have identified more clearly in the works concerning insurers who have defined the basis for calculating the compensation, followed the EU guidelines on permanent residence, defined the right to shorter working hours for children who are more difficult to move and moderately and more severely affected, up to the age of 18, which has been regulated by the Labour Relations Act so far. More specifically, we have set the right to a parental allowance for both parents, thus equating the conditions as applicable to leave for care and child protection; even more precisely, we have defined the rights to a child allowance for those who also have their child; we have set the age limit for entitlement to partial payment for lost income, and after this age it will be defined in the Social Protection Act. After more than one year of law enforcement, we can say that the law will achieve its purpose. Discussions on the conditions provided by the State for the protection of parenthood and motherhood have also often raised dilemmas about what the state can do. The problem is very complex, but it is certain that it is not the country in the world that solves the issue of rights arising from the USSR at a comparable level. We propose that the National Assembly should adopt the proposed amendments and the amendment of the law after a reduced procedure, because there are fewer difficult changes and additions and because there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you, Secretary of State. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask President Stanislav Brenčič to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again, I welcome everyone, including the proposer's representative! The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the proposal of this Act as the previous one at its 35th regular session on 27.6.2003. The bill was tabled by the proposer after a reduced procedure and the College of the National Assembly responded accordingly and we are also considering the law following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer as well as representatives of the Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as a representative of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the opinion of the Association of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. The proposal for a law is well prepared and therefore the legislative and legal service also notes in its written opinion that it has no explicit comments from the point of view of its tasks. She proposed some editorial corrections. However, Article 30 of the proposed amendment to Article 87(1) of the Act should apply only as from the date of the entry into force of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Social Protection, which raised the question whether the duration of the right to partial payment for lost income for the period until that Act was implemented, as the duration of the right during that period would not be defined. No amendments were tabled in the draft law by qualified applicants. The members and members of the Committee were further explained by the applicant in the introductions to the content of the draft law. In the debate on Article 30, an amendment to the Committee was drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which further provides for the application of Articles 1 and 87 of the Law. The Committee has drawn up, drafted and adopted additional amendments, thereby fully satisfying some of the warnings contained in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, and has further elaborated the content of the law with minor corrections; the amendment to Articles 1, 3, 6, 8, 19, 28 and 30. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also discussed and voted on all the articles and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law, which we are discussing today, has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u162	Thank you for the introductory explanation or explanation of the parent’s working body. Here comes the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and I give you again, colleague Brenčič, a word for the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that again. However, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits, regardless of the fact that this law only applies for a year and a half. The proposal removes quite a few vaguely defined content or individual provisions in the law, which has proved to be a weakness in practice. This should be questions relating to the taxpayers for the payment of the contribution, or questions relating to insurers or beneficiaries for the recognition and exercise of rights. The proposed amendments thus clarify the area of the recognition and exercise of the rights of parents and remove some kinds of provisions that we can find that they are also somewhat discriminatory in relation to the European Union and thus practically fulfil our commitment under the European Union Regulation and thus respect it. These changes relate mainly to the condition of citizenship for the recognition of family benefits, and these rights are not based on citizenship in the European Union, but only on the condition of the legitimate residence of a person in a given country. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we welcome the definition of the right to partial payment for the loss of income of one of the parents who decides to leave the labour market due to the care of the child who needs special care and protection. This right, however, will be regulated or transposed by means of amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, in this law, which almost enters into the procedure. The proposal for an amended bill will be fully supported by the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you. The position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, DeSUS, will be given by Vojko Celigoj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u165	Nicely greeted. We have studied the proposal for a law on parental protection and family benefits in the DeSUS Group of Members with interest. Not only is the topic covered by the law, but in particular the provisions relating to the disabled interesting to our parliamentary group, we have also received a number of comments from our voters. We agree with the amendment proposal in the parliamentary group, but we would like to draw attention to some of the problems that arise in practice under the existing law. In view of the text of the proposal, however, we fear that even if the future law is adopted with a given content, it may not fully help to clarify certain issues. It is a matter of regulating the short-term right, the right to partial payment for lost profits for parents of persons with special needs for their full age. The short-term right is linked to the right to partial payment for lost profits. In Article 85 of the Labour Relations Act, one of the parents who protects a child who is more severely or mentally affected has the right to work half the full-time work a day. In the second paragraph, it provides that in such a case, an employee shall have the right to pay for actual work and other rights in accordance with the specific law. In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the amendment and the amendment of the law, the proposal states that the amendment of Article 48 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits is necessary due to the irreplaceable legal void which arose after 31 December 2002 when the old law expired. In the DeSUS Group, we point out that the provisions in force under the Labour Relations Act did not limit the right to work half the full-time work time until the age of 18, while the proposed law so provides. It is true, as the Ministry correctly states, that a child who has not yet reached the age of 18. However, in the DeSUS Group, there is no reason for children with severe physical or moderate, severe or mental disabilities to be exempt from the right to work for half of their working time after a child is of age. In this regard, the DeSUS Group also raises the question of whether it can be strictly legal to determine when children are no longer in special needs and when such a person becomes an adult. The final decision whether parents will care for the child or will use other options is, of course, up to them. At least they have the option to decide and choose a solution that they think is best suited to their child’s anger. For we believe that, if parents want to and can care for a person who is disturbed by physical, mental development, they will reduce the pressure on institutions, both financially and spatially. With the right to a shorter working time, as has already been said, the right to a partial payment for lost profits is linked. In the current law, one of the parents who can enforce it is entitled to regular income payments if he decides to leave the labour market due to the care of a child in need of special care. The interpretation of the Ministry by law also gives the right to apply to a child under 18 years of age, but with the same justification as in Article 48, so that a child is considered to be under 18 years of age, since this is not explicitly stated in the law currently in force. If, in practice, the decision did not create problems, there would probably be no wish for the bill-maker to explicitly state it. While the amendment of the Committee to Article 30 indicates that the provision now in force should not be interpreted in this direction, otherwise the amendment of the Committee is without effect. We are interested in how, after the current law, do social work centres which are enforcers of the provisions of this law value the provision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u167	Well, hello to all of you who are now in the hall! The Novi Slovenije Group has reviewed and reviewed the amendments and additions to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits. A good year ago, we adopted legislation, and at that time we warned that the law in technical terms, and also in a substantive sense, was not good enough to cause problems in law enforcement. With regard to the enforcement of the law, parents and children had problems in the first place, but of course also employees of the Social Work Centre, which caused them a lot of concern. This has actually given us a lot of anger and bad will in parents and, finally, in social work centres. It has already been said that the law is in line with the directives of the European Union. It will also now say that it is in line with the directives or with the acquis of the European Union, and I hope that there are not so many mistakes. The Order of the European Union, the acquis, prohibits the denial of rights in terms of family benefits on the basis of nationality. It is clear that it is not permissible to exclude beneficiaries from the circle for reasons of nationality, but it is necessary and necessary and legal, legitimate, to lay the groundwork for obtaining rights on the basis of the residence of a permanent residence. And this is how other countries regulate. We can see that these changes are going this way. In Novi Slovenija we also advocate the possibility of obtaining a child supplement for those parents who did not have an official allowance prior to submitting the application. We are also committed to having the right to have a child supplement, whether or not they have their child, as regards their property; equal treatment of the beneficiaries for those children who are given into care with those who are placed in the institution; equal entitlement to an allowance for the care of the child who needs special care and child support, as long as the child has the status of the child. The progressive scale of single cash assistance for a large family, which, unfortunately, is still not in place in this law; to regulate tax reliefs in the way of getting a family for the third or fourth island more and not less, as in Mr Puck's proposal for income. We agree with the proposal to extend the right to reduced working time due to parenthood after the third year of age also for one of the parents who protects a moderate and more difficult child. Of course, the issue of these definitions of vulnerability, of course, remains. In fact, the law on the integration of persons with special needs has created an attempt to eliminate this classification, equalisation or removal on the basis of which, of course, leads to the risk that we no longer have the appropriate instruments, definitions for regulating social transfers according to the level of impact. This amendment of the law shows that the government should think more about it in the future and agree on amendments so that we do not face duplication of work and the enormous costs that result from work, that I do not talk about anger and the will of citizens. Errors must certainly be corrected and we will not oppose them. With regard to the exercise of the other rights, however, I do not believe that it is necessary to adopt a new national family programme, as the government is somehow promising. We have adopted a resolution that was almost not adopted by acclamation, a resolution on family policy. This is not true in the case of child allowances, in the case of income. The Constitutional Court found that the law was not consistent and, of course, the wide scope of incentives for the employment of mothers after maternity leave or fathers to enter the labour market again. This area is clearly set out in the resolution and only needs to be translated into a legal provision. So much for the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you. colleague Bogdan Barovic has the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The objectives and purposes of the law are clear and also clearly stated, defined, ensure, as they say, the implementation of the law on the exercise of rights, etc., and I do not want to discuss or read what is written. However, the principle of equal treatment and prohibition of any discrimination or other discrimination is important for the Slovenian National Party, the principle that citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is no longer necessary for additions, compensations and for all that is mentioned here, according to the provisions and under European legislation. Okay, I agree that legislation must be respected if people have decided to join the European Union, we will have to adapt and respect legislation. But we are again there when we are not yet members of the European Union, but the law provides that the principle of citizenship should no longer be considered and respected. Such principles and starting points, which are also written in Rapporteur 35, are not acceptable to us. I must say, however, that there is one paragraph which speaks of a certain part of the content dealt with by this law, which states, irrespective of the applicant, that, in order to obtain the right to a parental allowance and the right to a daily payment for lost income, citizenship is further taken into account. But these are just two indents, as they say, or paragraphs from many who are listed by what the law defines. I would also like to continue that Slovenia has agreed to a transitional period for the free movement of persons. Now, I don't know how many people who are just following the European Union situation know what that means. How much do you know about the free movement of goods and labour? This means rights for those who have chosen this space and responsibilities for those who do not have it; or, in domestic terms, those who have chosen the right to a transitional period will treat a Slovenian worker in the European Union for the next five years as they would have treated him before yesterday, but not as a member of the European Union. It means that it will not be as wide and open as we are in this law, and it will not offer him all the same rights. At least that's how I met or learned from a number of meetings in Brussels. I'm not gonna make a suggestion. It is right that the law regulates parental protection and family benefits, it is right that the objectives, as defined, will be achieved, but it is wrong for the Slovenian National Party to abolish the right or to abolish the condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia already, I say, for all those who want this assistance on the basis of parental protection and family benefits. I think it is fair for this citizenship to remain until we are equal members of the European Union. Then we'll just do what everyone else does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you. And the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, France Cukjat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Of course, we welcome the law, first of all because it wants to simplify some things and define some more clearly. In this way, he wants to define more precisely the status of the insured or the parental protection insurer, lay down the basis for the calculation of the parental allowance, define more precisely the right to work with part-time work, then further regulate the family benefits themselves and determine or arrange the child’s allowance regardless of the status of the child, whether in his or her own home, in his or her own family, or in his or her own foster parents, or in an institution or similar way. As I said, we welcome this step, but it seems to us that this step is very short and somehow too modest. In fact, many things should also be simplified, for example, the calculation of the child supplement. As we have a very simple and very clear calculation of the maternity, calculation, for example, based not on the social hardship of the mother, but on the calculations of the previous salary, and it is clear how maternity will be. We have other contributions or other assistance, such as a disability allowance at an age where it is quite clear what it is, and it is a day for all persons with disabilities, regardless of their pension, regardless of their other status, because the disability allowance relates to the state of disability, not to the social situation. The child allowance should also concern the child and the child’s needs and not the social status of the parents, as this should not be social assistance, but rather a child’s allowance granted to all children. So, such simplifications and logical arrangements that we find abroad would also like to have with us. On the other hand, we would also like to solve a number of other things and simplify them, as was the last case of adoption of a child who has not found adopters for two years, although in Slovenia the waiting time is on average two to three years - parents are waiting to adopt a child, arranged families, in order to have a child. We had a child who had waited two years for an adoptive parent and had no chance to meet him earlier due to complicated procedures. All these simplifications and more precise definitions are, of course, welcomed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you for your position. The position of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by a colleague of Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Welcome to the Ministry, well-known colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits, following a reduced procedure. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we expect the proposed changes and additions to meet better quality solutions to all those gaps that have so far hampered the smooth implementation of the law. We expect that they will facilitate the implementation of the law, so that all the many rights deriving from this law, such as, for example, cash compensation for maternity leave, parental allowance, assistance for the equipment of the newborn, child allowance, allowance for the care of the child will be easier to access, more precisely and clearly defined and defined. And just for the sake of saying that this law does not define just these previously defined rights and that these rights are about 30. In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, it seems particularly important to us that the definitions are so precise that there will be no unnecessary abuses, injustices and possible conflicts and complaints. A clear definition of the basis for the calculation of parental compensation eliminates the uncertainty so far with regard to the establishment of a 12-month period during which parental protection contributions were calculated against the occurrence of a particular type of parental leave. In particular, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are looking forward to those proposed changes, which, instead of being a citizen, is defined as one of the conditions for obtaining the right to family benefits of permanent residence, and thus the applicant is applying an important principle of equal treatment or better stated, the prohibition of discrimination based on nationality and thus consistently fulfils the obligations that we have acquired through the ratification of international treaties resulting from the principle of international law and, despite the fact that we are not in the European Union, we are all obliged to follow this principle. Members of the United List of Social Democrats welcome the unification and systematisation of the conditions for obtaining rights, which thus makes sense to us to regulate the conditions for obtaining the right to parental allowance, as set out in order to obtain the right to maternity leave and leave for the care and protection of children. In particular, it seems important to us that the applicant has foreseen the possibility of obtaining rights to child protection, including those parents who had no formal maintenance prior to submitting the application. This eliminates the possibility of discrimination. It is also important that the right to a child allowance is to ensure equal treatment of children who have the status of a child, whether they have their child or not, of equal treatment of children who are taken into care with those who are placed in the institution, which is also due to the newly adopted law on fostering. The same is true of the timing of the allowance, as laid down for the acquisition of the right to maternity leave, etc. The United Social Democrats' Group welcomes and supports the proposed changes, as their content is also contained and meaningfully summarised in the National Social Protection Programme until 2005 to reduce the negative consequences of life-threatening situations, particularly for those who have come into this situation without their own fault and cannot provide resources for the survival of children and young people with difficulties in growing up and are deprived of normal family life, and for spouses and partners with difficulties in relations or in raising children. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that recent changes and additions in particular follow the application of the universal principle of social protection, the principle of equal accessibility and free choice of forms for all beneficiaries under conditions of social justice and universal accessibility. In the United Social Democrats Group, we welcome the consistent implementation of the international treaties and guidelines already adopted and the European Union guidelines, and we expect the Ministry to give public consideration to the national programme for the enforcement of family policy in a short time, thus offering a vision for the development and resolution of a number of years of ongoing problems in this area, which unfortunately are not only dependent on the realization and will of one ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you. In addition to the position of the LDS Member Club, presented by Stana Stopar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words and once again a nice greeting to everyone! On 21 November 2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on parental protection and family benefits. The law applies from 1.1.2002 and provides for parental protection insurance and the rights arising therefrom, family benefits and the conditions and procedures for the exercise of individual rights. The law therefore achieves its purpose and places us on the top of Europe. In May this year, the Government submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for amendments and a supplement to this Act in order to facilitate the implementation of the law, both with regard to the exercise of rights and the management of administrative procedures. The Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy will complement the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parental protection and family benefits. The proposal regulates less difficult amendments and additions. Some amendments concern or comply with other laws, and one of the important points is compliance with the European acquis. The amendments and additions to this Act therefore specify more precisely who the parents are and the basis for the calculation of the parental compensation. Parents who work part - time due to care or care for an injured child will also have a condition for gaining the right by means of a novelty. Instead of the condition of nationality, the condition of permanent residence is introduced. The proposal also seeks to achieve, through the amendment of the law, the possibility of obtaining the right to a child allowance, also for parents who did not have an official maintenance allowance prior to submitting the application. The new law is therefore meaningful and very welcome, so we will support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today at 20.25 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. In a minute, we'll move on to the 6th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u177	We're moving to six. Period of the day - on a defensive proposal for a law amending the laws on war veterans, a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the meeting under consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, Secretary of State, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Hello again. We have before us a bill amending the law on war veterans. The proposal for a legal novel is to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The War Veterans Act provides for members of the old Yugoslav army in the war from 6.4 to 17.4. 1941, taken to military imprisonment, participants in the national liberation war in other parts of the former Yugoslavia and participants in the anti-fascist struggle in other countries and in allied armies, for the status of war veteran condition the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia since 25.6.1991, as referred to in Article 2 of the Act, or the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in its constitutional assessment procedure pursuant to Decision No. U1 187/00/38 of 9.5.2002, decided that the law on war veterans was inconsistent with the Constitution. It ordered the National Assembly to abolish non-compliance until 29.5.2003, the Constitutional Court pointed out that, despite the fact that the fighters of the National Liberation War, under the regulations of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Socialist Republic of Slovenia enjoyed the same protection, irrespective of the part of which the former Yugoslavia had fulfilled the conditions for the inclusion of the period of participation in the National Liberation War in the pension era, and that, by Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the fundamental constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the protection of the rights acquired to all should be equally guaranteed, subject to the condition of their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, public interest should be expressed for their different treatment of the war veterans' law individually and explicitly established. However, the public interest certainly cannot be demonstrated solely in the way they acquire their nationality. Therefore, it is proposed to amend Articles 2 and 35 of the Law in the sense that the status of a war veteran goes to the prisoners of war of the NOV from the former SFR and to those from allied forces who are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of the legal basis for obtaining citizenship under Article 40 or Article 10 by naturalization, and to those who have not acquired or claimed the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia at all, but have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and hence have been living continuously since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social policy and persons with disabilities to be the parent working body. And the chairman of the committee will submit the reports to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, this is the third draft of the law in a series which interferes with its content in an area for which the competent working body is responsible in the National Assembly, namely, the Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Committee. The working body also considered this proposal at its 35th regular meeting on 27.6. It addressed the bill as decided by the College of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. Representatives of the proposer, representatives of the legislative and legal service, or Mr Rudi Veselič, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which concluded in its written opinion that it had no explicit comments in view of its tasks. It considers, however, that it would suggest further checking whether and for which cases there may be a possibility that persons from the categories of beneficiaries with newly acquired status as a war veteran would assert any of the legal rights of war veterans, or from which they are also entitled back. If it turns out that there is a possibility of deprivation, it would be necessary already at this legal level to provide for such a situation by establishing the exceptional effect of the proposed amendments, including the provisions under consideration, in the context of the relevant additional preliminary provisions of the proposed war veterans law, while also re-estimating the financial consequences of the law. No amendments were submitted to the bill. An introductory additional contribution to the law was made by the Secretary of State, Mr Mag. Franz Znidaršič, as we have just heard. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons also adopted its amendment to the new Article 2.a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on individual articles and adopted all the articles. All these new articles, including the amendment, are, or are, all these articles with an amendment, an integral part of the amended law which is the subject of the current consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you. And I suggest that you remain for the speaker because we are going to the positions of the parliamentary groups and you, Comrade Stanislav Brenčič, are the first to take the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much again. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the bill. It will only be supported by a fact arising from a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, we rightly wonder when the enlargement circle of beneficiaries in the title of war legislation, one of which is also this law, which comes from the period II as a rule, will be stopped. World war, or even more specifically, from the period of national liberation, since each time and every novell practically the state budget charges a new few hundred million, this time for the poor one hundred million. If the state of Slovenia has a special moral duty on the issue of war veterans, it certainly has it on veterans of war for Slovenia. There's no such thing as a special expansion. It could be fine, but it's not delicious. We will, of course, support the marriage. We expect, however, that perhaps one day the end of this novel will be the end of the enlargement of beneficiaries in this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you. The position of the DeSUS Group will be given by counterpart Ivan Kebrič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues, colleagues. The word veteran, Latin veteran, means deserved, experienced. At the time of the Roman Empire, it was applied to a Roman legionaire who, after his service had been completed, had been granted land and other benefits, and later to a longer-term soldier or a recognized merit in war. Our law, in particular this amendment, gives, in addition to the moral recognition resulting from the award of the title and recognition of that title, certain material benefits that belong to war veterans under the law already in force. If this formulation were to be reproduced in our time, the eligible soldier, who had already been granted the rights, would also belong further, whether he had acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for amendments to the War Veterans Act was the result of a decision by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which found that the War Veterans Act was inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The applicant is therefore obliged to ensure the continuity of the exercise of rights or to accept the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia governed by the Constitution already in Article 2 and which have been protected by Article 18 of the Constitutional Act for the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This Article provides for the protection of acquired rights under the sole condition of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, whether or not a person has acquired the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the fourth indent of Article 2 of the War Veterans Act, a war veteran is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia from 25. 6. 1991, the person who has a period of participation in the national liberation war in other parts of the former Yugoslavia until 15. 6. 1945 is a pensioner's age. The War Veterans Act does not simply give war veteran status to all NOV fighters who enjoy their rights under Article 390 of the Pension Disability Insurance Act or who do not grant it to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have acquired citizenship after 25. 6. 1991 unless it was obtained on the basis of 40. Article on the law on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court has ruled that the law is not in accordance with the Constitution and therefore the following amendment is required: the rule of law ensures that an individual does not have a country's legal status adversely affected by arbitrary - Slovenian will. The amendment of the law provides for the protection of acquired rights and complies with the Constitutional Court decision of prisoners of war, members of the NOB in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, and participants in allied armies on the basis of that constitutional law, which will thus enforce the status and rights of a veteran of war on condition that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are, irrespective of the legal basis on which they have acquired citizenship; that is, under article 40 of the Nationality Act or under article 10 of the same naturalization law, or have had permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and since then in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, our parliamentary group will support Mr Brenčič by supplementing the Committee, as presented by his fellow President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u186	Position of the New Slovenia Group. The proposed revision of the war veterans law makes fun of Slovenian citizens and Slovenian taxpayers, especially Slovenian pensioners. At the time of the beginning of its term of office, this government coalition took the pensioners' three monthly pensions that they would have received under the previous law. Minister Keber now promises the taxation of net pensions with a compulsory contribution to health insurance, and Minister Marble threatens pensioners with the disinfection of pensions, even though the necessities of life are still at stake. According to government organisations, they have launched a campaign against Slovenian culturers who, in cases where they are calculated a very low pension from their insurance, the state recognises an additional pension. It is not surprising, however, to hear them now that the government intends to pay allowances to pensioners who have done nothing for Slovenia, because even its citizenship was accepted only after it was clear that Yugoslavia is finally over. These are foreigners who have fought for foreign purposes in foreign countries, and now they should receive from Slovenian money privileged pensions much higher than the Slovenians who paid their contributions. During this time of state savings, the government provides with a review of the law on veteran immigrants from other parts of the former Yugoslavia with privileged Borčev pension, for which they did not pay a penny in Slovenian social insurance. According to statements in the explanation of the proposed law, 250 people who have acquired Slovenian citizenship in the period following their independence are entitled to the benefit of fighting. As usual, however, this assessment is far too small, as the crowds of former NOB fighters who in other countries in the Yugoslavia receive nothing or very little at the expense of fighting will be able to push into Slovenia, while in Slovenia the privileges of NOB fighters are unreasonablely high. In the explanation of this proposal, the Government refers to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which found that it was not in conformity with the constitutional regime whereby persons who had Slovenian citizenship on 25 June 1991 may be granted privileges at the expense of participation in the NOB and those who later obtained Slovenian citizenship may not. This is supposed to be inequality and discrimination. The government eliminates this distinction by granting the same privileges to persons who later acquired Slovenian citizenship as those who had Slovenian citizenship before Slovenia’s independence. A better and fairer solution to this unconstitutional distinction would be to abolish all privileges at the expense of participation in the NOB and the communist revolution and thus align them with other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Fighters for the privileges and gains of the revolution will certainly say that this would violate Article 18 of the Constitution Charter on the Independence of Slovenia, which made a commitment at the time of independence to ensure that Slovenia's independence would grant fighters the fighting privileges to the extent that it would enjoy them under the rules of the former SFRJ. Who today, though, can determine what the privileges would be if Yugoslavia still existed? In other transition countries, they have taken account of Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly resolution 1096 and, in exceptional cases, in which the ruling elite of the former regime has allocated pension rights higher than the rights of second residence, these rights have been reduced to the normal level. Instead, there are always new privileges at the expense of revolutionary merit, although Slovenia is also a member of the Council of Europe and should respect the international standards set out in this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u187	The position of the Slovenian National Party will be given by a colleague of Saša Peca - who is giving up this position. I give the word "magic." Mr Andre Visiak for the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague! The amendment or amendment of the law under consideration may be a key reason for this to be due to a decision of the Constitutional Court and would not repeat the statements already made by some speakers in terms of explanation. The presentation itself would focus mainly on assessing the financial implications of the law and essentially on some blurry picture in this area. The draft law states that the proposed legislation will require additional financial resources from the State budget, as it will enable the status of a war veteran and the rights of an additional number of beneficiaries to be implemented. We estimate that there are about 250 new beneficiaries whose protection would take about 21 million Slovenian tolars a year. The necessary additional resources to be provided for this year, given the expected date of application and the relative age of beneficiaries, are estimated at 50% of the number I have been talking about and should be drawn from the transfer items to war disabled persons, veterans and victims, including the sub-sector of medicines and climate treatment. In short, it is essentially the new beneficiary on the one hand and it is the money already allocated to existing beneficiaries. In short, it's basically a fig in our pocket when we say that we're going to give new beneficiaries a grant. In short, it is indicated that the existing funds foreseen will be sufficient for this matter, unless, of course, it intends to increase the Ministry's balance sheet or by amending the 2003 budget. I would like to draw attention here to one key problem that I am familiar with at the annual meetings of the exile society when they say that in essence their right to climate and medical treatment is only on paper. Because a large majority of them do not get the legal rights that follow them, and in fact they have to pay expensive health checks so that someone does not practically grant them this, and, of course, from the means available, health workers also exceptionally and orderlyly define their right and recognize it. And now we see that these 250 new beneficiaries will be granted these additional rights from this account, which means that those who have already had this opportunity will be further deprived of this option. I would also draw attention to the ambiguity pointed out by the legislative and legal service in terms of the possibility of implementing this law backwards, which means that the financial consequences of this law cannot be accurately anticipated. That's the key problem. From the material that we are given, we cannot, in fact, see the actual financial consequences of this law and the question is also raised whether this novel is the only possible solution and the implementation of the decision-making court. From the answers to these questions, of course, we will also come up with a decision on how to define this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u189	The United List of Social Democrats will give its position, which will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the draft law together with the new Article 2.a. We wish to respect the accepted obligations that the Republic of Slovenia has also adopted by means of the Constitutional Law on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia and we do not wish to follow a two-sided policy where, on the one hand, the commitments we made at the time of our efforts to achieve independence would be welcomed today at the same time that the rights we promised war veterans at that time might be acquired by others who were not on the side of the national liberation fight in World War II. The Constitutional Law explicitly stated in its 18th Article: The Republic of Slovenia provides for the protection of the rights of fighters, military disabled persons, members of families of fallen fighters and beneficiaries of military pensions with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia - and this was the only condition that was recorded in the constitutional law - and fighters, military disabled persons and members of the families of war fighters of NOB Yugoslavia in the country of Furlania-Julia Krajina and the Republic of Italy and in the country of Koroška in the Republic of Austria, to the extent and conditions that the provisions of the SFRJ were laid down prior to the entry into force of this Act. So, residents in Slovenia - condition of permanent residence, fighters of NOB in Furlania-Julia landscape and the country of Koroška - regardless of residence, even if they reside there because they were members of the national liberation movement. We have also warned Members and Members of the United Nations of the Social Democrats about the need to comply with this Article of the Constitutional Law when adopting the War Veterans Act. The law was also somewhat supplemented on this basis, but to the extent that it is today, and it was no longer possible to achieve it at that time. The Constitutional Court, on the basis of the principle of the rule of law, which presupposes trust in the law and respect for the obligations and promises made by the State, but not to forget them, because the situation has changed, we believe that the rights of war veterans must be guaranteed by the law to the NOB fighters already on condition that they had a permanent residence in Slovenia on 25 June 1991. As set out in the Constitutional Act on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and regardless of the conditions under which they acquired their citizenship. In doing so, the Constitutional Court explicitly stated, quote: "...that in this case it is not a matter of expectation that the extent of their rights would not change, but that they would be treated as a single group on the basis of respect for the historical fact", I stress "respect for the historical fact" and it is the duty of the National Assembly to do so "on the inseparable linkage of the peoples of Yugoslavia in the national liberation war". This is a reference to the Constitutional Court's decision. At the same time, the Constitutional Court has also warned: "At the same time, the Constitutional Court reiterates that the suspension of permanent residence if it was formally obtained on 26 February 1992 because of the transfer from the register of permanent residence to another record cannot be relevant, since such transfer was not lawful", as the Constitutional Court has already determined by its rulings. However, the Law Service has pointed out that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly taken a position, and I quote that "when a law regime that was not in accordance with the Constitution caused a person to be deprived of the right to be settled in return". In this regard, the Committee has also adopted Article 2a of the Act, which I hope deals with these two issues in an appropriate manner. Therefore, we believe that, at least with regard to veterans of war, both of the obligations laid down in the Constitutional Court decisions have been fulfilled and we fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u191	And also the position of the LDS Member Club, which will be presented by his colleague Mario Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the law on war veterans submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration will be supported by the LDS Group of Members. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is in a constitutional assessment procedure on 9. 5. 2002 decided that the War Veterans Act was inconsistent with the Constitution. It ordered the National Assembly to remove the finding of non-compliance within one year of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. up to 29. 5. 2003. The draft law before us today, following a reduced procedure, follows the Constitutional Court's decision and amends Articles 2 and 35 of the War Veterans Act in the sense that, in addition to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, a person who has already been granted protection in addition to the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 18 of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the basic constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, under the sole condition of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, whether or not he has acquired the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. Military prisoners, NOV participants in other parts of the former Yugoslavia and participants in anti-fascist fighting in other countries and in allied armies will thus be able to exercise the status and rights of a war veteran on condition that they are nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or have on the day of 25. 6. 1991 in the Republic of Slovenia a permanent residence and since then they have lived continuously here. Well, that's why we might support this marriage. Since I have a little more time, I would like to say my opinion on this, of course I also support this law and would continue where Mr. Vizjak is actually [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u193	The controversy in this case is not allowed, I would ask that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u194	No, no, no. There's no controversy. I totally agree. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u195	Only the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u196	with him as far as the financial consequences are concerned. [[...]] In fact, the government that submitted this law simply submitted that it would be worth what it would cost to go forward and did not say anything about it. So these consequences are invalid, I'll say. The financial consequences of this law, which are written, are invalid. Because we know how much it's going to cost a month to go back - so when they enforce these rights - we don't know anything. If, however, few of these laws, the law on war violence, about veterans, are likely to leave us with something else, another law that will come, even after the decision of the Constitutional Court, which will burden this country a little more. I don't know where that's going. And I wonder, in fact, who will not be in this Slovenia to get any help in one way or another: whether the war veteran is a fighter, whether he is erased or not. So perhaps the government should reconsider before giving these laws to you to assess the financial consequences. Otherwise, we will only pay for this and I do not know where these funds will come from in the state budget. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u197	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. My friend Mario Gasparini, you broke the rules of procedure a little bit because you continued with your position. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law, so it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate, as well as the second reading of the bill. The vote on the law will take place today at 20.25 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. At 4:40 a.m., we will continue with the 7th item of the agenda, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. Until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u198	We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE BUSINESS LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the government - which I also welcome - to Mr Matthew Moret, State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, for the opening explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The purpose of the proposed novelty is to fully and definitively adapt the law on the European Union's legal order in the field of foreign exchange and free movement of capital, which must be implemented before entry into the European Union. At the same time, some changes in this area are needed in connection with the entry into the European Monetary Union, which, according to the proposaler, is also relevant at this stage. The European acquis requires full freedom of movement of capital and payments between Member States as well as between Member States and third countries. Slovenia has already achieved a very high degree of liberalisation by means of the current foreign exchange law and its adopted sub-legislative acts, which gradually removed obstacles to the free movement of capital over the past four years. The remaining legal obstacles must now be removed, while the liberalisation process achieved on the basis of sub-legislative acts must be strengthened at the legal level to ensure the irreparability of the liberalisation process itself. In order to achieve this objective, the legal provisions that have so far restricted or conditioned capital transactions between residents and non-residents have been amended, otherwise obstructed or empowered either by the Bank of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance to regulate these transactions. In terms of removing obstacles and further liberalisation, the following changes are most important: the obligation to register direct investments of residents abroad and to remove the ban on the bank not to make payments if the transaction is not registered and entered in the register with the Ministry of Finance is lifted; the prior authorisation of the Minister of Finance for the issue of foreign debt securities in Slovenia and the prior consent for the introduction of equity securities abroad are hereby lifted; and the absolute prohibition of investments of non-residents in companies engaged in the production and trafficking of weapons is proposed instead. The proposed changes will enter into force as soon as the law is in force, so that Slovenia will reach the full convertibility of the current account at this time in addition to the total convertibility of the capital account of the balance of payments. In addition to these amendments, the amendments necessary for entry into the European Union and later for entry into the European Monetary Union are proposed and will not be implemented immediately but only at the time of each entry. First of all, it is the status of safeguard measures, such as measures that can protect Slovenia from large inflows or capital outflows and thus prevent them from operating negatively on exchange rate and monetary strength. Since the current provisions on safeguard measures allowing a full range of measures to be taken by the Bank of Slovenia will no longer be admissible after the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, as they do not comply with the EU acquis, the transitional provisions of the draft law propose to terminate their validity as from the date of accession to the European Union. After that date, the provisions laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community will be directly applicable and the Republic of Slovenia will lose the opportunity to take action in the event of major movements of the Pretokapital, which could endanger monetary and monetary stability. Action will only be possible at EU level and only in the event of major balance-of-payment problems. At the next stage, the entry into the European Monetary Union will also leave an option that is also adequately proposed in the transitional provisions of the law. At the time of entry into the European Monetary Union there are also some other amendments to the law which will enter into force on that date. However, in addition to the protection measures already mentioned, it is also important to fully relax the operation in foreign payment facilities between residents themselves. These are the most important changes to the law. In addition, let me mention new, slightly stricter conditions for obtaining and withdrawing the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. These conditions relate mainly to the qualified owner and the responsible person of the contract exchanger. However, the type of amendments to the law is also necessary in order to comply with the other legislation adopted at that time. In this respect, especially for the law on offences, the law on gambling, customs law and the law on the prevention of money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you, Master Sea. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members and I give the floor to France Lenk for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please. I'm sorry. Mr Ciril Pucko, Chairman of the Monetary Policy and Finance and Monetary Policy Committee, will present a report from the parent working body. Excuse me, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. The Committee considered the law under consideration or considered the proposed law to be the working body of the mother. In view of this, we have already adopted two amendments to Articles 26 and 37 of the Law and, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that the amended proposal be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee, for this brief report. And now I am calling once again on Franco Lenk for the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and fellow Members. Before us is the law in the package of European legislation, which is crucial in ensuring the implementation of the four fundamental freedoms that are the pillars of the European Union: the movement of capital, goods, people and services. The proposed amendments to the law allow the free movement of capital, one of the key preconditions for the introduction of a common currency in the Member States of the European Union. The legal provisions need to be adapted by amending the Foreign Exchange Act before entering the European Union, thereby preventing the reversibility of the capital flow liberalisation process and preventing it from deteriorating. However, there is a safeguard with which the Bank of Slovenia retains the possibility of action, in the event of a threat to the normal functioning of monetary and exchange rate policies leading to capital flows. In addition, during the negotiations for accession to the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia committed, in additional explanations, to release certain types of capital transactions faster than envisaged in the previous provisions of the existing Foreign Exchange Act. The proposed law proposes to ease the absolute prohibition of direct investment by non-residents in companies or other forms of organisation engaged in the production and transport of arms and compulsory pension and disability insurance financed by budgetary resources. The proposed amendment to Article 22 is logical, since both holders of compulsory pension and health insurance are a public legal person who cannot be invested in a private or domestic or foreign capital. Here it is necessary to emphasise that after the entry into the European Union, the market for Slovenia will become an internal market, and after the introduction of the euro there will be no more foreign exchange transactions with the countries of the European Union, as all operations will take place in what is called "domestic currencies", i.e. in the euro. Therefore, it is also reasonable to propose that, from the day following the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia, the word tolar should be replaced by the word euro and that the amounts should be converted into euro in criminal provisions. As far as pension companies are concerned, residents from the Member States of the European Union will have the right to perform on the Slovenian market under the same conditions as domestic and vice versa. This will allow for broad choice, as well as the competitiveness of investments, which in our view will have positive effects on the development of the quality of suppliers in this area of Slovenia. We estimate that the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Exchange Act is amended, and in the light of Slovenia's closer entry into the European Union. That is why we will support him in our Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you. The position of New Slovenia will be presented by Dr. Joseph Bernik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u205	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We've finally reached the new Foreign Exchange Act. One understands that this has to be done sooner or later because we are standing before entering the European Union. The free movement of capital is one of the four pillars of the European Union, and this fundamental freedom has been accepted by our country by signing an agreement on our entry. So we don't have any alternatives, and the question is, why now? The approach to amending this law is based on the techniques and principles of which I will mention some. The existing restrictions on foreign exchange transactions have never been completely lifted, transferred to the Bank of Slovenia or to the Ministry of Finance. This law repeals a number of sub-legislative acts adopted over the years for financial control purposes. The law makes it clear that the process of legalising capital flows is not reversible and allows for temporary restrictions on capital only in the event of threatening and actually incurred balance of payments problems. The law also provides for the introduction of the euro as a means of payment in Slovenia. The proposal for a law is also necessary in order to harmonise this area with other provisions of the laws. As it is said, this bill removes almost all the restrictions on capital flows in and out of our country from the Member States of the European Union. However, such flows will still be controlled by third countries. The proposal also interferes with the appropriateness of people engaged in foreign exchange and gives the Bank of Slovenia certain powers to grant licences to qualified owners and the responsible persons of the contract exchanger for such activity. The explanation also mentions some of the standards of Basel recommendations for the supervision of customers, banks, as well as the World Bank document and the International Monetary Fund on the quality standard and integrity of directors of financial institutions. At the same time, one rightly wonders where our supervisory financial institutions have been in recent financial scandals. In future and final provisions he mentioned a nice number of sub-laws that remain in force until Banka Slovenije issues new ones. With all that seems positive in this proposal, I have doubts that this law will fall, not into a void, but into a very complex network of financial flows in our country. I have already spoken about the need to adapt the proposal to some basic financial laws, such as the law on the prevention of money laundering and others. However, one wonders whether all these institutions, which will have to change their current practice for financial transactions, are qualified for this change. In the event of difficulties in opening transaction accounts with our parade bank Novi Ljubljanski Bank, for which no new bike had to be re-invented, there is a legitimate concern about where this will all be stuck. In our New Slovenia Group we see the need to adopt such a law, but sometimes, not now. However, as we will vote, it will depend on the answers we will receive to our questions, what is the need to adopt this law now, what is the readiness of our financial institutions and the Slovenian financial market for the free movement of capital, to what extent other legislation is already adapted to this law or when it will be harmonised. It is also unclear from the text how financial transactions with third countries will take place, that is, those who now remain outside the European Union. Let me finish. The question is also what it means to abolish total control of financial flows from abroad immediately after this law has been implemented. What about in the meantime? Besides, I'm asking a question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u206	I'm warning you about time. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u207	Member States. [[...]] Just one more sentence. That's another question. The last question is, is there any urgent need to remove the register of direct publishing outside Slovenia? Is that blue? I see no reason, as such information would not only be needed for statistical purposes and perhaps, you probably agree, we might also be interested in such information as our tax administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you, Comrade Bernick. Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party will give its position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u209	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this is in the case of the law that we are meeting with, one more important law that we will meet again in this national assembly in the coming period. That is why we have tried, within the framework of the parliamentary group, within the framework of the Economic Forum of the Slovenian National Party, to take a step-by-step approach to this issue. The fact is, and it is correct to find that the bill pursues three basic objectives: firstly, full harmonisation with the legal order of the European Union in the area of capital flows; secondly, to prepare a capital market for a monetary union, and that is the area in which we are likely to meet the aforementioned law in this national assembly, and to comply with other laws which this national assembly has already adopted for this and related areas. Furthermore, the applicant correctly notes that so far the tasks of this law have been partially carried out through sub-legislative acts and transitional provisions of the CAP. In fact, the fundamental changes proposed by the proposer can be divided into five parts: firstly, investment entry, secondly, capital transaction proof, thirdly, securities, fourthly, Bank of Slovenia jurisdiction and fifthly, securities residence conditions. Of course, all the five amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, one and the same denominator, this is the liberalisation or release of the restriction, under the pretext that approximately this is the case in the legal market of the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, we are concerned that in this period, when Slovenia tries to show itself and Europe that it is capable of freeing up the market, there can be a fear, namely a lack of control over the capital market. Especially if we are based on the existing practice of the operation of the Slovenian financial market and the relationship of Slovenian entities to capital. On this side, and especially in relation to the first objective that the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has pursued in its explanation, this is harmonisation with the European Union, which is the biggest objection of the Slovenian national party to the applicant. The fact is, in addition to the liberalisation of this area, there are several accompanying laws in the European Union: firstly, safeguard legislation, and secondly, control legislation. However, unfortunately, in our country and in the accession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have not touched these two areas or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not offered us two other laws, which otherwise constitute a monetary set of laws of the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that in order for this law to be successfully implemented - and in particular in the form through which it would be possible not to violate or exploit the liberalisation of the market - a package of protection laws and control laws should also be adopted in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia even went a step further and, a year ago, when we proposed two laws in the Slovenian National Party from that area to protect and control the functioning of the monetary market in the European Union or when we join it, gave a negative view of both proposals for laws. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the draft law is not in the form it should be that it does not contain two important components that would be reflected in the quality of the implementation of this law, and there will be only one consequence of the law adopted today. This is too much liberalisation and thus too much violation of this area. Where this will lead us, we probably all know. In the Slovenian National Party, the draft law at a given time - if the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not give control elements, in the form of the Bank of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Parliament and all interested groups - we cannot support it. However, we sincerely hope that the applicant has also thought about the two other areas mentioned above, and I would therefore ask that you make a position on the other two essential elements of the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Mr Andre Visiak for the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! With the current amendments and amendments to the Foreign Exchange Act, our Government and Banka Slovenije have decided to introduce a full and irreversible release of capital flows from abroad, explaining that this fulfils the obligations we have assumed by entering the European Union. The free movement of capital within the Member States of the European Community is one of the fundamental features of the single European market and, of course, we are not opposed to amending and supplementing this law in principle. In the explanation of the law, we explain to us what will be the "opportunity" of the use of protective measures in the regulation already in force in the European Community or will apply under our full membership. We're not worried about this arrangement. However, we are concerned about the time until our full membership in the European Community is realized, we are concerned about our own temporary measures in the next nine months, which are not properly explained. I therefore specifically ask the representative of the Government why this law allows for the full release of foreign cash flows and introduces it already 9 months before the deadline, without a proper explanation for the applicants. So why is that necessary? We estimate that the current level of foreign exchange liberalisation is entirely sufficient for the sound economic development and preparation of our economy for entry into the single market. In our public, it was not to be seen that the current regime would present any obstacles to economic development. But the question is, did she really prove it? We have no objection to the change in the law and, of course, to the entry into the European Community, but not so much earlier. Our second objection to this law concerns foreign exchange arrangements with third countries, which are non-members of the European Community. The applicants explain to us the arrangements and instruments of protection they know in the European Community to third non-member countries, in particular in terms of exchange rate and monetary policy. We are interested in what this arrangement will be in the next 9 months in our Slovenia. The data of the last economic mirror of the UMAR would also be relevant. According to this data, the net inflow of foreign direct investment in the first four months was EUR 28.7 million and was much lower than it was in the same period last year when it reached EUR 441 million. During this period, however, the volume of Slovenian exit investments increased markedly, which were three times higher than during the same period and mainly directed at countries in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and other transition countries. In short, a lot of money goes from Slovenia to these countries and much less comes to Slovenia. This concerns us how in these 9 months until Slovenia's full membership in the European Community with the capital market in our country and with the outflow of capital necessary for the investment cycle in our country will be in particular in an environment where we used to live. We also want a concrete answer to the question why the register of direct investments abroad is being abolished. Why should we not defend this register until at least 1.5 or until our full membership, at least because of the need for tax administration? How the tax administration will be able to control the taxation of profits and other revenues made abroad if it has virtually no records. The considerations of this law do not concern the implementation of the law with full membership of Slovenia in the European Community. However, we are concerned about how, during the transitional period, this law will affect, in particular, the outflow of Slovenian capital abroad, the poor investment drive of this money in our territory, and, of course, we fear that the balance of expenditure in the countries of Yugoslavia and the negative balance sheet will be even higher than before. This is what we want concrete answers to these questions regarding the transitional period.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u212	Also the position of the United List of Social Democrats. He'll be served by Leopold Groschel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u213	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Undersecretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The principle of free movement of capital, one of the fundamental four freedoms in force in the European Union, was applied by the Member States as of January 1994, when the second phase of the Economic and Monetary Union began. The implementation of this fundamental principle of freedoms has also released a key precondition for the introduction of a common currency in the Member States of the European Union. We can say that this fundamental principle of free movement of capital has also been followed by the Foreign Exchange Act of 1999, by which the Republic of Slovenia lifted a number of restrictions both on capital flows and on capital outflows, while the restrictions that we still held on the short-term forms of capital were mostly favoured. These restrictions were designed by transferring their decision-making powers either to the Bank of Slovenia or to the Ministry of Finance, thus exposing a flexible system for the gradual release of capital flows, while the law itself laid down deadlines for the removal of existing restrictions in the transitional decisions. The proposed amendments and additions to the Foreign Exchange Act provide for the full harmonisation of the Foreign Exchange Act with the European Union's legal order in the area of free movement of capital and the fulfilment of the conditions and obligations related both to the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and to compliance with the legislation adopted in the last period, which has otherwise regulated the individual content provided for by the Foreign Exchange Act. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats, we note that the specific provisions of the proposed text of the law incorporate the basic principle of liberalisation and transparency as a fundamental objective, so we will also fully support the proposed law on editorial amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the bill, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The vote will take place today, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, at 20 hours and 25 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have heard some questions in the views of the parliamentary groups. Does the Rules of Procedure also prevent a government representative from answering these questions? Please, if you can explain this to me, if the Rules of Procedure prevent the Government from answering the questions raised. I know there is no debate, but the question is whether a government representative can answer questions. To see another new dimension of this democratic rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u216	This is not a general debate, I know it's not your question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u217	[[...]] [[There's no microphone on.]] My question is if the Rules of Procedure prevent a government representative from answering the question [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] That's my question. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u218	The views of the parliamentary groups are not addressed to the issues of the government representative. This is a general debate on the home committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u219	Can the President tell me where it is written that the views of the members of the groups should not raise a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u220	In the rules of procedure. The second reading only provides for the views of the groups of Members which are expressed as they have been spoken and the matter is closed. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this at 20.25. I'm breaking up the agenda. At 5 p.m. and 20 minutes, we'll resume at 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u221	We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act, a summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a government representative for further explanation of the law. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Transport, Velja Peternelj, you have the floor for an introductory explanation of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, I would like to apologize to the Minister. He was on his way to parliament when he urgently had to turn to another emergency meeting. I would therefore make an effort to give an introductory explanation to this bill. As you can see, this is an article that amends the transitional provisions of the Road Transport Act adopted in 2001 and introduced so-called temporary subsidies for bus carriers until the introduction of an economic public service in this area, which we anticipated will be introduced in this year. Unfortunately, there have been little more problems in this area than we have anticipated, or a transition from the current system of bus and coach transport on a complete economic basis to the economic public service, which has made this all a little bit more difficult for us by about a year. Therefore, this extension of the transitional period or these subsidies for one year is essential in order to maintain at least the level of public bus transport as it is now. However, the aim of the economic service below is to increase this level and accessibility in essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you for your explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the member of the Committee, Anton Butolen, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and fellow Members, representative of the government! At its 42nd regular meeting on 27.6.2003, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment carried out a review of the proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act, which was sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure on 23.5.2003. Following a supplementary explanation to the individual article of the law by the representative of the proposer, the Committee has moved to the hearing in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for a second reading of the proposal and, on the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, held a discussion and a vote on individual articles of the law. Since no qualified proposer has tabled amendments to the draft law until the expiry of the 129th Rule of Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted only on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In its opinion of 11.6.2003, the Legislative and Legal Service concluded that, on a proposal from the law, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspect of the proposed amendment relating to the extension of the time limit in the transitional provision, there were no comments. In view of everything and since no amendments have been adopted to the draft law, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law be dealt with in the text as it has been sent to the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you for this report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Franz onion, SLS, is not present. Aloyz Sok, Nova Slovenija, position of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u226	Honorable Vice President, Government Representative! Colleagues and colleagues! As the Undersecretary has said, this amendment to the law is indeed only one article, but the matter is not as simple as it is here. By subsidising public line transport, among other things, the State is supposed to take care of coherent regional development, and we speak little about this coherent regional development at any meeting of the national assembly. Yesterday, at least 3 or more questions were raised on this subject, as far as I was following. In particular, by subsidising public line transport, we should ensure that the public passenger transport system in this country works in some way and that the public transport system is accessible to all residents, especially those living on the outskirts, in demographically threatened areas. In the Road Traffic Act, which we adopted in this National Assembly in 2001, we wrote that public line transport is a public good and that public service must be established in this area. The transitional period by which the Government was to do so was established by Article 123, which is 1 September 2003. By 1 September 2003, although the government had two years of time or almost two years of time, it had done nothing. It is now coming with a proposal, with a slight change, let us extend this period until the end of 2004. In 2004, a new government will take place and, of course, the new government will resolve this issue. That's how I understand this proposal. If the law laid down a certain deadline, then from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which practically invites us every month or every week to one of three openings, each smallest bridge or every sidewalk opens with a great deal of fun and all Members receive invitations, should take so much time in this ministry and settle the matter. If you have time for these events, at which you invite us Members, then you would expect to do the same as the law has imposed on you. On the other hand, it happens that the economic situation of Slovenian public line carriers from year to year is worse, that public line transports are cut short due to non-economy and that in some less developed regions such as Prekmurje, North-East Slovenia, Dolenjska and elsewhere, almost in some regions these line transports are no longer available. In order to make the situation even more difficult, of course, in the Road Traffic Act, which is bad, and in New Slovenia, we have already said that it is bad, it has been stipulated that if an individual operator, in addition to the public service obligations for which he could receive these subsidies, carries out other transports, he must carry out this separately, keep it organisationally separate from the special gypsy account and so on. That's a worse situation. If you postpone this matter for a while, then of course you will no longer need to subsidise anything, because these public line transports in less developed regions will. To think that way in the government is essentially proof of the adoption of this year's budget rebalancing, where for about 100 million already you have reduced the stakes for this purpose. At this point, the government is ready to contribute 11 tolars per mile. However, as you came to the National Assembly yourself to say, to date, until July 2003, you have done nothing to settle this as a public service in order to settle it as a public good. We will support this postponement of this deadline today. But we find this irresponsible and unserious from this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party of Sašo Peče.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u228	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that this national assembly, this country and this government must accept the fact that public liner transport is at a disadvantage. Why it happened, maybe at this point it doesn't even matter that much. More importantly, how will we achieve that this industry or this service will be able to survive for at least some time in the future, whether with the help of the State, and much better if it could survive on its own, of course. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the aim of the law, defines the extension of the deadline for the payment of subsidies and thus the possibility of market survival in order to achieve at least a minimum volume of transport in all regions. Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that line transport between major areas is still in a solid state, but that line transport between smaller places or between places that are more remote and in less developed regions is almost impossible or almost disappeared. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the draft law, which is contained in only one article. I also personally assess that it makes sense that the State, through its monetary policy, in the form of a budget, helps or helps to help all those service activities or activities that are possible at this time at the edge of survival, on the one hand, if such a subsidy has a positive effect also in the more equivalent or equitable development of our country. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support and hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you. Mirko Zamernik has the floor for the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I'm gonna talk right out of this town because I don't want to show my back to a government representative. When we sat face-to-face, we agreed on some things to get some information on the commission of inquiry, and this agreement was not followed. That is how I believe that if we turned our backs on a government representative, it would be even worse. I have already pointed out, in my morning work on the law on the provision of air navigation services, the poor preparation of the law, which, by the way, is covered by the same ministry. It is so weak because this law, and I may be confirmed by a government representative, the road transport law is only in these two mandates, as far as I am in the National Assembly, I think it has been fixed three times or even four times. There has always been a talk about how quality he is now prepared, and then it will take six months or a year, and the matter will need to be rectified. My colleague Sok said the general assessment is that marriage is bad. I would add to this one such purely specific information as to why this marriage is bad. It happens that a carrier with a lot under his thumb can get permits for road transport at any time and as much as he wants. Those who are unable to support this financially are dealing with major problems and cannot carry out transport. We have also come to these conclusions on the committee I am leading and have therefore requested certain data from the Ministry of Transport. I'm afraid we haven't had them before today. However, these are facts, but this deadline, or the change that is now being proposed here, will be supported in our Group of Members. However, we hope that the ministry and the government will also face the problems I have mentioned earlier and will also correct the provisions in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u231	Thank you. The position of the United List will be presented by Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, chairman. We also tried to analyse the proposal for a law amending the law on road transport in the parliamentary group in more detail. We agree with the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the law referred to by the proposer. Ensuring coherent regional development in the Republic of Slovenia requires meeting the mobility needs of citizens within individual regional or local centres, where an adequate public passenger transport system is needed. Of course, it is also interesting to note that the traffic policy in passenger transport does not follow or is not in line with economic policy measures, as the main reason for the current situation we are talking about is the dominant use of passenger cars and the congestion of traffic with all the extremes and social costs in urban and suburban transport, mainly due to the lack of coordination between bus and rail carriers and the lack of agreement between different carriers. In short, the lack of transport policy is also clearly one of the major causes of the problems that arise in this area. It is encouraging, however, that a study is being made on the allocation of concession areas, on the evaluation of bus lines and on the design of line packages that will be the subject of an economic public service. We have heard that the economic public service will improve the situation in this area because it is envisaged, as set out in the objectives and principles, that these transports will be financed from the price of services, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the budget of local communities. The area of public line transport will therefore be taken under the auspices of the State in the future, as the economic situation of Slovenian public line carriers is deteriorating from year to year. That's the conclusion. We are, therefore, concerned that today we must decide that the deadline by which we extend the granting of subsidies to current liners is extended to 2004, thus giving up one of the very important development measures for coherent and equitable regional development. We also see an opportunity for the government to try, by means of a regulation regulating the height and time periods and the way in which temporary subsidies are granted to bus carriers carrying out public cross-border line passenger transport in inland road transport, to listen to these problems and also to try to take into account certain problems that have arisen mainly in remote and sparsely populated areas, since each year it can be fatal for these areas. In particular, we would point to the fact that there are even greater problems at the time of the holiday in which we are now, because school holidays further reduce the possibility of connecting remote places, as this problem is often solved through school transport. And this moment, when it's vacation time, these places don't actually have public transportation. In our view, the regulation I quoted earlier should try to bring these needs closer or, above all, not to reduce the line links during school holidays. However, we will support the extension of this deadline, but with serious concerns that will certainly reflect on coherent regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thank you. The position of Marija Possonec, representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The reason for the adoption of the amendment of the law is in particular to ensure more coherent regional development in Slovenia and to meet the needs for mobility of citizens within individual regional or local centres, as it is necessary to ensure the adequacy of public passenger transport. This should allow all citizens to meet the needs of health, education, work, culture, social protection and the like. In this context, our proposal for a law is also in line with the European Union White Paper, which plans for a Community transport policy by 2010. Thus, the applicants present to us the objectives and principles of transport policy and the validity of the law during the transitional period until 2004, when they would revive the economic public services for regulating and providing public line transport. As you know, I come from Prekmur, from a border, economically less developed and from Ljubljana the farthest area. Even before the introduction of the subsidy, Lendava was connected daily with Ljubljana with three bus departures. Now only registered lines that carriers do not implement are left because they are not supposed to be economic. This leaves Lendava and all the area of DoMurska Sobota again after more than 40 years without direct bus connection with the state centre. And this is what happens to us at a time when the state is starting to deal with regulating and subsidising public transport. Now they're gonna blow up our bus station, so I hear there's gonna be a mall. If it continues this way, I can already express serious doubts about the success of future regulation of public passenger transport. I believe that that law and the government regulation have no meaning and impact on the implementation of the principles of transport policy. If that is not the case, then I ask the representative of the Government to deny the allegations made by the applicant in the explanation of the law. It gives the carriers a budget of 16.50 SIT proportionally after a km of registered line, which further stimulates them to maintain only economic lines. The non-implementation of registered lines is not the main concern of the traffic inspection and thus remains formally linked to the capital, but in fact continues without a transport link, which I think could not have happened in any country but in ours in the third millennium.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u235	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were received by the mother's working body to the draft law, and no amendments were tabled for the assembly. It is also not possible to discuss the articles and amendments tabled. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill at 20.25 hours, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. At 5:55 p.m., we'll continue with the 11th item of the agenda, and until then, I'm taking a break. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u236	I invite you all to come to the big debate room. We'll continue with the 11th. Agenda item - First draft law on the use of protocolary objects. May I have your attention, please? The draft law was tabled by a group of Members for consideration by the assembly. Our first-signed colleague, Andrej Vizjak, and this group of Members, also requested a general hearing on this bill. I will now give the floor first to the representative of the proposers. Master Vizjak, will you present your position? Please have the floor for further explanation and not more than 10 minutes for introduction. Then he will have his word, if he so wishes, the government representative and the order of the day. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. The purpose of the proposal for a law on the use of protocol facilities is to regulate the use of those facilities owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which are used exclusively at the various protocol events of the highest representatives of the state authority and other important institutions. In this area, our assessment shows that there has been a legal void. It has also been shown that there are also alleged abuses of protocol facilities or their use without legal basis in existing legislation and without direct connection with protocol events. The purpose of the law is to remedy the inadequacy and inadequacy of the current regulation of the use of protocol facilities, if any, given that this area is governed only by Article 58 of the Protocol Rules Decision. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the executive authority and the highest authority of the state administration of the Republic of Slovenia, is entrusted with the management of the property of the Republic of Slovenia, including the protocol facilities. The public was aware that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also unduly using protocol facilities as it uses them for meetings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and there is also the private residence of the highest government officials in the protocol facilities at a time when there are no protocol events and there are no reasons to justify the use of protocol facilities for private purposes. I'm also wondering what's going to happen to the Sunday event. The use of protocol facilities for other purposes is a clear violation of the rule of law, since it is the privileges of the highest government officials, who did not wish or wanted to regulate such important issues as the use of protocol facilities. In addition, it is only worth noting that budget spending is inadequate and unnecessary, especially if we have in front of us the fact that we have a very high level of poverty in Slovenia and more than 100,000 unemployed or somewhere else. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives the public the impression that it saves and reduces or abolishes certain budget items, but it is precisely unnecessary and unjustifiable to use protocol facilities to prove that saving budgetary money was not the main driving force of the government in the part where it relates to its internal organisation and work. It is precisely because of the unjustified use of protocol facilities, and the related use of budgetary money, that we have decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a law specifying exactly what are the protocol facilities, the way and the purpose of their use, the beneficiaries of the use and the way in which the use of protocol facilities is financed. This would legally regulate the important scope of the operation of those state authorities and institutions that use protocol facilities, since protocol facilities are not intended only for the functioning of the government, as is now the decision in force. The main solutions to this law are in particular the precise definition of the term 'use of a protocol facility'. The law determines which are, exactly, protocol objects. It is determined where protocol objects are used, where users of protocol objects are identified, what protocol objects should not be used for [[for example, government meetings, private residence]] . With regard to the management of protocol facilities, the law provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for this and that the Protocol of the Republic of Slovenia is to be applied in the event of protocol events and so on. The law will have no financial implications for the budget, as it will not require additional resources in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to implement it. The means of maintaining protocol facilities and preparing protocol events are already provided in the budget within the framework of the General Secretariat of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and under the Protocol in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law does not extend the use of protocol facilities, but only strictly regulates their way of using them. We therefore believe that the proposal will have a positive impact on the budget earlier, as it will rationalise the costs of their use in view of current practice and ensure transparency in the use and coverage of costs. In principle, the proponents do not object to the use of protocol facilities on the basis of prices and calculated prices. We also believe that there are too many protocol facilities in the Republic of Slovenia and that it would be appropriate to raise some to a higher quality level, but at the same time to reduce the number of these. In short, we consider the proposed law to be a suitable basis for establishing a legal solution in this area. We are fully open and ready to follow the recommendations, comments, upgrades and appropriate corrections to the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandl, please state his position, and he has no more than five minutes to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u239	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, motions! Unlike the candidates in the government, we do not believe that the bill being tabled is necessary. The area is fully regulated. We have now heard some assumptions from the introductory explanation, but they are completely mistaken as assumptions. In fact, Slovenia does not have with any act defined facilities which could be considered purely protocol facilities. Only this law, if passed, would make that provision. And this he determined in a way that he would use, as was said in the introduction to my predecessor, their exclusiveness, the exclusive use for protocol purposes and prohibit their different use. The calculations show that Slovenia is a small country so that it can act irrationally so that any facility, unfortunately, can qualify as an exclusive protocol facility and use it for this purpose. Simply, there was never enough resources in the budget, even now, there are no funds at the General Secretariat for this purpose, as stated in the introduction and as stated in the explanation of the law. There is simply not enough budgetary resources for the government and the state to maintain these facilities. This is why, of course, the facilities in which protocol events are also taking place have been turned over to the public economic institution. The company operates on the market, performs an economic public service and generates about 40% of its revenue through market operations. This means, say, for last year's good 500 million tolars of additional funds acquired by the institution and invested in maintenance, to restore these facilities. I, of course, agree with Mr Visiak in principle, who says that it would make sense to sell one of the facilities, and the resources to be used rationally, and of course I am sure that you will also support the proposal for a decree on the sale of state property, which will be on the agenda on Monday and which will also follow this purpose. Of course, it does not occur in these facilities, nor does the abuse of these facilities occur anywhere. It's not a privilege at all. I don't know a functionary who can take advantage of it. The fact is that the public economic institution operates and charges services on the basis of a valid price line. The price list, of course, covers the prices applicable to budgetary users, all of which, not only to the government, not only to the ministries, but also to the public assembly there, use the services and premises with which the institution disposes and manages. This price list is confirmed by the government as well. The Sunday event, Mr Vizjak, will be no different from this. An account will be issued and the user of the Kokra Hotel service will settle the account. I must also tell you that if the President of the Republic resides or benefits the services of the public economic institution Brdo, he pays the bill out of his pocket. The adoption of such a law would, in fact, for the first time since Slovenia was a single country, have reintroduced some exclusiveness, some arrangement and the management of the closed type, and would have dramatically increased the budgetary resources needed to maintain and use these facilities. Of course, this does not make it difficult to calculate and claim that the adoption of this law would, in my view, reverse the cycle of history back before 1990, as regards, say, the concrete use of buildings in Brdo and the entire Brdo complex, and also significantly change nature, including itself, not only the Brdo complex, but also the public economic institution, which in this way would lose its sense of working on the market and the state as such an important source of income that the Hill has for the maintenance of these facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary-General of the Government. We will now move on to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. I don't see a fellow Rokavec here in the hall, which is the first to be reported. Mr Pohorec will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, followed by a colleague of the Noblemeniti or colleague of Peca. You'll introduce Comrade Pohorec first. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u241	The draft law before us was put into the legislative procedure by a group of Members with a first-signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. Applicants assess that the use of protocol facilities should be regulated by law. Perhaps that is also the point of the bill. The draft law sets out, inter alia, what protocol facilities are, define the purpose of use and determine when they may be used. The problem that we see in our House is that the bill on the one hand is too inadequate, because it does not take account of all the protocol projects, and we also consider the government palace and the building of the National Assembly, where protocol matters are also taking place. On the other hand, the question arises as to whether this issue is not already solved by the government's sub-laws. We add that in the Member States of the European Union the use of facilities for protocol purposes is not subject to legal regulation in all Member States. As far as the management of protocol facilities is concerned, the Government is already carrying out this exercise on the basis of a regulation on the acquisition, disposal and management of real property of the State and municipalities. Due to the limited financial resources, the Government has established a public economic institution: the Protocol Services of the Republic of Slovenia, which manages protocol projects. Approximately 60% of the funds are derived from the budget and the rest from other revenues from the marketing of these facilities. In addition, the draft law leaves out the events explicitly mentioned in the decision setting out the protocol facilities adopted by the Government. Among other things, it excludes the possibility of using protocol facilities in case of working and private international visits by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the possibility of the Minister of Foreign Affairs holding reception, which is inconsistent with international protocol practice. On the basis of the above-mentioned opinions, the Group considers that the proposed law is not as good as it would have been to be adopted now, we agree with the position of the Government and we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u242	Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Vizjak presenting the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. First of all, you have your word, Comrade Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u243	The protocol facilities, such or other status, and the protocol itself in our country are too many. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the government is overexploited, on the one hand, both with facilities and, on the other hand, with the activity of the Protocol itself. In the Slovenian National Party, while we claim that the purpose of the proposaler is positive, he is trying to bring the material of protocol facilities into law, a kind of roofing law, which is intended to include all elements of protocol facilities in one act. We estimate that the government's negative functioning or the government's positive functioning is that the rules on protocol facilities themselves are dispersed into individual conclusions. We estimate that it is reasonable to have a marriage and personally we do not care who proposes it, whether it is proposed by a political option or proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, by some representatives of the groups before me, it has also been said that the law is incorrect. I personally assess that such political organisations, which declare this, are inconsistent, given that the law is at first reading and that the purpose of the second and third readings is, above all, to make things right. On the other hand, or at the end - because we will continue the debate of the Slovenian National Party in the debate of the Members - it must be said that the Slovenian National Party has always stood up and we will also take the lead in the next step in the debate of the Member States; this will also be our motto in the vote on the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Comrade Vizjak, you have the floor to perform on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members; behind you, Comrade Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u245	Thank you very much again. In presenting the views of the parliamentary group, I will reject what the Secretary-General of the Government has said to this law, in particular in order to determine that this proposal is unnecessary. In my opinion, the main motive is that some inadequacy continues to reign in the use of these protocol facilities and thus some flexibility in the use of these facilities. See, if this law were to be read in more detail, it is also the ambition of this law to define precisely or more precisely the purpose and method of application and identify beneficiaries for protocol purposes. At the same time, it is the ambition of this law to allow the use of these facilities for other purposes, which explicitly defines paragraphs 7 and 8, since it provides for an economic public service service or public economic institution that sets a price for the use of protocol facilities, which also sets the price for the use of protocol facilities when they are not used in the event of protocol events. The applicant therefore foresees the use of these facilities for purposes where there are no protocol events, in particular for the purpose of enabling the existence, maintenance and thus rationalising the management of these facilities. I fully agree that the Republic of Slovenia is not such a rich country that it can afford exclusive protocol facilities. It must have high-quality protocol facilities, a clearly defined method and beneficiaries of the use of these facilities at protocol events, and, of course, it should also be possible to use these protocol facilities for other purposes, at a price that must be properly composed and should also allow the use of these facilities to others. This fogging that everyone is being billed, that's from one pocket to another pocket. After all, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, has his budget lines and is drawing money from these budget lines and going into a circle. The use in unclear rules of the method of use is unclear, blurred. And it is precisely the ambition of this law to define this more clearly. I agree with some colleagues, the speakers, that perhaps an event is not taken into account in this law and should be added. However, dear colleagues, we are in the first reading. It's twice the power to amend this law, so please do it! I'm glad you were specific when you were talking about the receptions of the Foreign Minister. You know, and you can see that in Article 4(5), there are also receptions organised by the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the President of the Council of State, the President of the Constitutional Court. I believe it's fitting that there's an outside minister in there. If, of course, your intention is sincere, it is said that only a fog rises from this area, you will support it. But if again it is one of the polygons where the opposition can have an earring, when it wants to propose something and enforce something, which would help the millimeter to continue the establishment of order in Slovenia, you will vote against and thus bury one ambition that is positive and wants to resolve the area in our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you very much, colleague Visjak. My colleague Ptrč will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and his colleague Štemberger. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the United List of Social Democrats, I will try to explain why we will not support the draft law in our Group and where the facts on which the proposal is based are unrealistic. Mr Vizjak was more kind than the text of the law in his introduction as a proponent. I cannot defend his performance on behalf of the Group of Members. For the law's proponents are of the opinion that the use of protocol facilities is not regulated. They come from being used illegally. They result from the inadequate and irrational spending of budgetary money. This is linked to the fact that the problem of more rational and better use of protocol facilities can address the serious problems we have in Slovenia, in this part we agree with them, the problem of unemployment and the problem of poverty. If, ladies and gentlemen, you think that these links are correct and that the problem of protocol facilities can be discussed on this basis, then personally, me and my colleagues and my colleagues think that this is not true and that this is incorrect information and an incorrect basis for the adoption of law. When you tell us what kind of resources this is, what can be saved here, what is wrong, then we might believe you. Otherwise, it must be said that this is simply facts which are inaccurate and which constitute an unacceptable basis for the adoption of this law. As regards the claim that the issue is not regulated. It's not arranged in law, that's right. It is regulated by a decision laying down protocol rules much more precisely than in your law. Much more specifically. In every way. And the only thing that could be right is that you think that a national assembly should decide on this, not a government with its decision if things were wrong. To claim it's not arranged, but of course it's unobjective. The fact that the issue of protocol events in the country is regulated in only one article of the Decision is also inaccurate. This Decision on the establishment of protocol rules has, in the absence of any further additions, paragraphs 67 and in each of them is a discussion of how protocol events are regulated in the country, who has the right, who has access, under what conditions and similar conditions. I'm not saying that everything is great and right, I'm not saying it, but saying that everything is "angeneral" is wrong, but there's a lot of too much claim that you're not arguing with anything. It is claimed that the law would ensure a more rational spending. I think it is right to say that so far the use of facilities for protocol purposes assumes that they are used for protocol and economic purposes. Your proposal is based primarily on protocol objects only for protocol purposes, exceptionally, I do not say that you do not allow price lists, but this is everything. The pricelist for the use of protocol objects also exists today. You could say you want to see this price list. It is good that you want to evaluate it yourself, or that the public agency Protocol facilities properly perform calculations and that you want to carry out control of the Court of Auditors, how the funds are provided and how the funds are used. All of this can be discussed. Just to say that there is no price list and that you are proposing something new, which is not now, is simply not true. That's not true. Read your starting points for the law, Mr. Vizjak, you claim that. Two things are the only thing [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u248	Don't argue from the bench to the bench, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u249	which are not in the law or in the conclusion so far. [[...]] This is an explicit ban on the use of protocol facilities for government meetings. It's not like that. And I don't mind talking to you about it if you think it's rational. That's a possible deal. I would also suggest to the government, on behalf of the Group of Members, that we define ourselves on this subject and that we should say that, at an economic price, it should not be allowed, at the price applicable to these objects. But to say that it is impossible for the government to now sit outside the government seat, I don't know, because then we also have to change our own rules. We, too, occasionally exceptionally allow the meeting of the parental working bodies outside the seat, since this is useful in our common conviction at some point in time. And it is not explicitly stated when and in which case, of course against payment, protocol facilities may also be used by individual officials. That's the only two things. And also in this regard, we believe it is right for the government to be charged and to tell us exactly how these things are arranged. If they're not accurate enough to handle them properly. But just because of these two things to do as much of a story as she tried to do with this law, I would say, she doesn't drink water and she may have other purposes, but not the purpose of properly regulating the use of objects for protocol purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u250	Comrade Vizjak has the opportunity as the proposer to challenge the position at the end. The proposer has this time. Now a few applications have been changed, usually the government is the proposer, in which case a group of Members. The debate between the parliamentary groups is not possible in the middle of the presentation of positions, unless it is a candidate. My colleague Štemberger or someone else in the youth group? [[No, no, ……]] Then my colleague Majda Shirtz. I'm sorry. I didn't notice you. I'm sorry. You were already on your way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the purpose of the proposed law on the use of protocol facilities to prevent abuse and non-transparent use of protocol facilities. Events of the recent past, media records of the use of private protocol facilities cast a bad light on the entire state apparatus and completely after unnecessary anger and disturb citizens. Certainly, the persons mentioned in these records are not comfortable, so it should be in the interest of all, including the highest representatives of the State, to adopt such a law, which is proposed. We are getting precise legal provisions on what are the protocol facilities, the way and the purpose of their use, the beneficiaries and the way in which the use of protocol facilities is financed. It is particularly important that we define the rightful person for use. It is stated in the material that protocol facilities are not intended solely for the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And for something else, we will vote in favour of continuing the procedure in the Young Slovenia Party, i.e. for the law. According to our assessment, it is one rare law that has no negative budgetary implications, but quite the opposite. It enables savings and transparency. Sometimes it's a rare good thing, we can say that this proposal is kind of an informal little rebalance. And we need more of those. Surely something else could have been added in the marriage, but, as has already been said, it seems to us that there is sufficient basis for further consideration and that is why we will also vote in favour of the law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Colleague Majda Širc will present the views of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. This will also end the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We do not challenge the extremely discerning concerns of Members who wish to regulate the use of protocol facilities by law. That this matter is of particular concern to you is also evidence of the very form or proposal of a solution that you have applied to the law, regardless of the fact that it is the subject of legal regulation in European countries. This is really not a criterion, but, however, we're kind of used to the credibility of others, so we also like to refer to them. As it is said, you have expressed concern about the current legitimacy of the use of state infrastructure as you estimate that protocol facilities are being misused, in particular in cases where they are being held by the government, which you have specifically excluded in the following text. Of course, this concern has two ends. By the way, I am not saying that the illegal desire to legally frame the use of protocol facilities can also be read by another intention, perhaps some assumption that the country would be re-represented as an irrational consumer of budgetary money. It follows from the explanation of this proposal that the country affected by unemployment and poverty is not able to save on protocol facilities, of course they are unreasonably beneficial, in short, almost already guilty because it has them. However, if the applicant already refers to poverty, if he understands the State's efforts for general austerity measures, if he proposes consistent standardisation and limitation of the use of protocol facilities, then it is totally unreasonable that the law offers a solution that burdens rather than facilitates the state budget. What the first-signed mag is proposing. A viscous? It suggests that protocol facilities can be used exclusively by statesmen in a broader sense, of course. Indeed, Mr Vizjak, you have tried to deny Article 7 and Article 8 but, nevertheless, I remind you that you have limited that so-called external use that you have mentioned to private use in Article 7. You suggest that protocol facilities can be used by listed statesmen and institutions, but not by other users that appear on the market. Most of the protocol facilities have long been leased by companies and individuals and are also paid at the accepted price.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u254	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u255	As has already been said, this price list could be looked at, but I suppose if the cost incurred by the so-called protocol facility is, say, 7 000 SIT, for example, I am referring to, of course, once more for those who are not from this address. Public Economics Authority: Protocol Services The Hill, which was established to manage property and to provide some protocol services, should achieve greater, I say, in my assumptions, that as many government authorities as possible would primarily use these facilities and their services, because they are cheaper and more reputable and favourable than private hotels or various other non-resident restaurants, thereby increasing their, indirectly, national income and reducing budgetary revenues. Otherwise, the current ratio, as we know, is the country's inputs and revenue collection from services in the markets ratio 60:40. It is also difficult to say that consistent consumption is opaque and irrational. The public economic service of the Protocol Service has its own act, giving its consent to the Government, which also adopts its development plans and also decides on how to allocate revenue surpluses over expenditure, possible loans and so on. The annual accounts should also be revised to determine its purpose, efficiency and rationality in the use of budgetary resources, only for the sake of obvious lack of rationality and imprudentness. In short, if I repeat, the legislative proposal is justified by the assumption that I do not tell the alibis that the current solutions resulting from the said Protocol Rules Decision constitute unnecessary spending of budgetary money. It is paradoxical, however, that the proposed solution, which, as it is said, reduces or prevents the marketing of these facilities, transfers the financing of use and maintenance entirely to the state budget, which means that this law would have financial implications. And that's exactly what I'm assuming is unnecessary budget spending. And it would be completely reckless for a small Slovenia to maintain the facilities solely and only for protocol purposes. And that. The use of protocol facilities around the world, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and probably elsewhere, is not regulated by legal standards. In most cases, they are based on tradition, practice, sound logic, and the time-consumer. All those who walk around the world or who walk around the world and at state receptions, you know, we know well how exemplary it is not to say prestigiously, are decorated objects intended for a meeting of officials. However, they also have a symbolic role and value. That I'm not even talking about residences or presidential palaces. You yourself find that almost all countries with a parliamentary system within the European Union know the residences that are generally intended for the representative or the President of the country. But this conclusion, the proposal we have before us, does not lead to a solution for us, or our president or our president, or the government or the state. We believe that it is difficult to say that a proposaler who builds the entire law on the alleged use of a protocol hut in Brdo, who deserves this residence, is a senior representative of Slovenia. In this context, of course, marriage is unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u256	We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Now comes the debate of all Members and Members, in order of order, as you have applied. My friend Bernick has his first word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Guests from the government, ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that such a simple law, or marriage proposal, causes so much divisiveness and controversy. I am also surprised that we will spend so much time dealing with this simple law or proposal, which has undoubtedly been written in good faith and all that instigation, and it seems very inappropriate to me. Look, all countries have protocol objects that they use in different ways. It depends on tradition and so on. We also have a tradition, because the previous regime was long and was very "hanging" on protocol facilities. You'll be able to tell me who and how this thing was handled. But let's just forget it. The Government or the Secretary-General of the Government says all of this has already been arranged. Okay, if it's arranged, but you'd be interested in how it's arranged. Unfortunately, I did not have a memorandum sent by the Secretary-General in March, if I recall correctly, and I counted some documents. Anyway, that's my problem, but your problem is that you don't tell me how much this thing costs. This, I think, is a purely legitimate question that we should know here in this House. As far as I'm concerned personally, I'll say this. The government needs these protocol facilities. Whichever it is, let her decide for herself. How she's gonna use them, let her do it herself. Then let's accept this law. I wouldn't mind if, like in other countries, these protocol facilities are also used in person. Why not? All you have to do is pay for them. I would give the President of the country that brunette or whatever he likes on the Hill, and this has made the media a terrible thing, and I don't think it's wrong in itself if he pays that expense. I would also have determined in this law that everyone in the public service could use this if they paid the price. And I know that some of these objects are used that way and I don't see any embarrassment with this thing if it's in line with some behavioral standards and also with the safety of objects. I also have no personal problem using these facilities for government sessions or anything like that. For example, the budget, it takes a very large hall and it is necessary for a lot of people to come and insist for a few days because I do not believe that we are going to get so soon that the budget will be an automatic matter. I think this marriage is a good proposal. It needs to be perfected. Some say that in other countries this is not regulated by law. No one has ever said why. Why? Or this becomes an international legal norm, why this should not be regulated by law. That's perfectly normal. I think there's something else going on here, and that's visibility. The media and people come up with things that aren't explained to them, that don't have rules, and so on. I think that this law could make it possible for state officials, those who would like it, their place, and people to be told how and then there will be no further discussion, and it would probably not be necessary for us to discuss this proposal much more.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič is not in the hall, colleague Janša is also not, it is now the turn of colleague Potrč, no, colleague Anderlič also not, colleague Kramberger also, mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I see people cancel the debate. I just want to give you a few details. You're saying that the government has arranged this with a decision and a rulebook, and we haven't really figured out what it is yet. In view of the fact that it is the use of government or government officials or officials or people being admitted to protocol facilities, it would be good to accept this at the level of law. In fact, if the government accepts this for itself, it will be like that anti-corruption office, the corruption law, when the government manages itself to control itself. You know, you can't do that. This leads to the abuse of objects. Because of me, you can have coalition talks on the Hill or elsewhere, but this has to be arranged in such a way that you know what it is. Whether you are selling this as if the government had met or something else - this must be clear. It must also be a transparent pricelist. The law also had to lay down the conditions for outsourcing to outside users, not everything in detail, but the basic. I think the key reason why the ruling coalition doesn't like this law is because the signatory is not right. This is an old experience that we have been listening to for some time now, and this is the reason that this is not done properly and that it does not go into procedure. I miss the serious efforts of all of us to form a law that will benefit us, any government, any state service or international visit, so as not to be a stumbling block. The things that have happened also show that regulation is not appropriate, that it is a lack of regulation and that it is not proposed from the right end or from the position. As I mentioned earlier, the Anti-Corruption Act or the Anti-Corruption Office, which will never work well because you write your own application. However, I would like to see published that decision on use, and perhaps also in relation to this Decision, how the use is recorded. I would be very interested in what this matter looks like; I will probably ask the question of this. In short, the opportunity is here, it is offered, we approach and make a good law, with all the necessary provisions, in the following cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Comrade Pukšič, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I'll start on the other side. In this mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has carried out some good projects. I'm sure she's done a good project in the field of the Foreign Ministry. [[Together, of course]] ; she carried out a good project in the defence area. Why? It is also because we have come together because we have exchanged views and have played a country-specific role in these areas, position and opposition in concerted or in terms of all-inclusive debates, not in terms of some ideological or worst-case terms, in terms of overpowering. But there are, of course, some other projects that the government coalition ignored and were bad. The government coalition and the government are responsible for the use of all funds at the referendums. Because they were carried out and the Slovenes and Slovenes decided as they were warned by the opposition. Of course, responsibilities, even material ones, so no one was wearing them. In this case, the law is about the same. Only one government party identified itself in substance to the law and discussed it in the sense that it was necessary and complemented. If this government party were to do so, the intention of the applicants would be achieved. The main solutions to this law are very clearly written. It is very clear in Article 8 that the public economic institution of the protocol services of the Republic of Slovenia shall determine the price of the use of the protocol facilities, which shall also determine the price of the use of the protocol facilities, where those facilities are not used in the event of protocol events. Colleagues and colleagues! If it were a marriage, if it had, today would have a price list, and ministers, Members and Members of the ruling coalition would know exactly how much they will pay on Sunday for the lunch they are throwing at Brdo. But because this is not legally defined, of course this exploitation is what we say in this article that protocol facilities should not be used for government meetings and those activities relating to its internal organisation and functioning. Maybe it's even an amendment to the government's sessions, but to get rid of it, it's the other part. In the debate, in the second and third readings, with the amendments, the law can be "drunk" and prepared. I agree. Maybe the government could be there. Of course, I also very much agree that the proposaler wanted to make it clear that the law will apply to specific protocol matters, but of course the proposaler did not define the other events as well. We said the price of the government is determined and so on. So the applicant did not go down to the same level that was, of course, below the level of government as the government did when it explained that a government plane would be used to transport wounded. Please! The proposer took this much more seriously than the government did when it "pulled out" in what way it would justify the huge use of resources and, of course, proved to be an unfair, unfair spending. On the other hand, of course, rising unemployment, on the other hand, the differences we have been talking about in this Parliament for the past year, and this is also discussed by the government, that the differences between the provinces are increasing. I'll get it over with. I have already said, when the draft law on the President of the Republic was being considered, that something should also be written in this law regarding residence. I agree that the state's highest representatives should have residence. This means that when he is elected, he will be brought into this residence by his vehicle and taken away by a protocol. And of course, when he's been disqualified when he changes, he takes off with his own, and he's done with that. However, because these things are not arranged for us, because some do not want this law either, they do not want it to be fed in mud, they were fed with these social dwellings, and then the highest officials of the Jazbinski law are voicing, because they bought such a kind of dwelling for change, which is now worth 15, 20 times more than they gave. Both, the former President and the current one, should be reimbursed, and they should either empty these facilities or have these two facilities serve the residences and, of course, add them to the protocol facilities. Certainly, colleagues and colleagues, it is necessary to regulate matters legally if we are to avoid any coalition, and any government, such or other later on, and not just the obvious, because they usually say where smoke is also fire. And the obvious is, of course, usually because we have unfortunately, a lot of bad experience with the management of such objects and the irregularities that are taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u262	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. Comrade Shirtz, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up. I'm also a colleague of the Squirrel. My colleague Anna Maria Tisovic, please. No, you're giving up the word. Dr. Brace is sorry. Comrade Mamić, now you have the floor. You're giving up the debate? Okay. This is what Joseph Jerovšek is now called. You want a word? I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The only person who has the floor is Comrade Jerovšek. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u263	Thank you very much. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u264	I'm asking for peace in the hall. The only one who has a word has the word of a colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u265	I am also surprised by the view of the government and the authorities that order is not necessary in the necessary area. That we do not need a legal definition or even a declaration that the area is fully regulated. I believe it is fully regulated by the taste of authority. Because clearly it is more consistent with imprudentity, for in fact, as was said, it is easier to fish in mud if you have other purposes. I think it is still important that we now regulate this area with the law, because there is a great deal of confusion among people, which are protocol objects. People, in fact, because there is no legal regulation, are quite unknown to them, they also mix concepts and if they had protocol facilities covered by a law, there would be some transparency, better behavior. People, like, come to the office and ask questions. Last time someone asked me, "Will you also buy a protocol apartment from the government like Mr Golobič at such a reduced price?" Of course, I had to argue that this is not a protocol apartment, but that it was a very low price and that Members do not have apartments with such low rents, let alone that the government offers them for ransom, which is, of course, the right thing not to offer them to us. Also, people do not yet separate these matters, who has access to the Hill, for example, when protocol events are held. Then, of course, it is no wonder that they also ask "will you also be invited to lunch on Hill, protocol, now that the coalition has this on Sunday". It is interesting, however, that the Youth Party has supported this and wants transparency in this area and with very good arguments as to why this area should be regulated. I think it is also good that a restriction is foreseen here, let's say that the government can't just meet through the thumb in the protocol facilities, but if it has a government palace, because it has to do with the extra costs. If the government has a meeting on the Hill, it takes 20 Mercedes to bring ministers up and then ministers are not available for long and so on - it actually has bad consequences. And if it is stipulated in the law that the government has its own government palace, where it can take these activities, then the government will probably stick to it. In fact, I do not blame the President of the State for sometimes using that brunette, which is less controversial for my notions; however, this matter must be regulated in law and much more transparent and significantly lower costs. I'm surprised to see Mr Potch performing as if nothing can be saved in the use of protocol facilities. Of course you can save! We don't even have a review of the costs of all these matters. Of course, it suits you in such a state that there is no transparency. The law proposes determining the pricelist when these facilities are used for non-protocol items at what prices. If this were public, if this price list had been published as often as they would have published the data on parliamentary salaries, people would know more about these prices than, say, on parliamentary salaries. All of this can be arranged by law, so I'm surprised you're ringing all the bells, as if it were bad if in a transparent, transparent way it were arranged. I hope you'll become aware and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thank you very much. You have the right to a replica because you were mentioned by name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I believe it is not on purpose, but you have not listened to me properly or understood me well. That's what I said. Firstly, as far as regulation is concerned, the establishment of protocol rules is public. It shall be published in the Official Journal and shall be accessible to Members and Members at least. If you hadn't looked at it, I'd say it's hard to blame the state for not having arranged it. Secondly, I said it was right to control public finances. The scope of these funds is foreseen in the budget. Each of us can look at this and see what the scale is, how much of the funds provided by the public service from commercial activities are. I think it is right that this is being spent as rationally as possible, and therefore I do not think it is good that it would be impossible to spend or use these funds for commercial purposes, which is what we are doing now, and this law only through Article 8, does not allow me to resent it, it simply does not allow it. That's what we wanted to point out. This will be no more public, no more transparent, by regulating it in marriage. And it's just a matter of choice. However, I pointed out in my introduction that two things are not said, this is a question of use for meetings and the question of use for protocol facilities. Let's get this sorted out.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u268	We continue to discuss MEPs and Members. Comrade Zupanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Dear Government Representative! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The regulation governing the scope of the protocol facilities is a valid government decision establishing the protocol facilities in which the protocol facilities are established and the purpose of their application. However, we are convinced that this area is important, so that we should be regulated by law. We support the proposer because we want to legally determine what are the protocol facilities, the way and the purpose of their use, the beneficiary of the use and the way in which they are financed. It would make sense to re-examine whether we really need 9 protocol facilities, as listed in Article 1, of which two castles, four villas and one hotel and one restaurant. Maybe it's just too much management and maintenance fund, and finally it's too much to use. Protocol facilities are mainly located in Ljubljana or in Gorenjska. I think there's only one that's a little bit distant, on the other end of Notranjska. This is the Castle of Sneznik, which I know best and as a protocol facility by the State, it is said that only a few times have been used in the last 10 years, when Mr Bavčar invited a foreign delegation to visit. Otherwise it is better known as a cultural monument for receptions, for cultural events, for weddings. The castle is also open to visitors because it is one of the rare ones with authentic interior and equipment carrying out a museum mission and, as such, an important tourist offer in the Los Valley. The castle was sometimes surrounded by a nearby building, Pristava, which is now under the cultural ministry, but is already in serious decline. It is not possible to sleep in the castle, it is not possible to arrange a hospitality offer, but the municipal representatives are satisfied with such arrangements, so it would be worth maintaining. In this regard, it would suggest extending the provisions of Article 9 of the Law concerning the provision of funds for use and maintenance in addition to the budget to other resources, such as those provided for in the tourist offer. The government already manages protocol facilities, but sometimes we feel that there has also been unjustified use. When we have exactly the representatives of the government among ourselves, I would like you to answer the question as well. As we are informed by the media, parties to the ruling coalition will decide on the future work on Sunday. Can you confirm that this is in line with the decision, since other parties cannot afford it or are they unable to afford it and is it not an unjustified spending of budgetary money, or will the parties settle their own accounts of catering services and perhaps accommodation services? There's really no loathing about it. It is to ensure that the accounts are clear, as we would like to say, that we support the proposaler's efforts to regulate the use of protocol facilities by law. With some possible corrections through the parliamentary procedure, we could adopt an appropriate legal basis, but we must certainly pay great attention to the question of denationalisation, which I know concerns at least one object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u270	Thank you very much. My colleague Zupanov, the government will be able to answer the question if it so wishes, but it is not the bill's proponent. Comrade Tuck, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. The debate on this law is very interesting. And not as innocent as it seems at first sight. See, in the first article, in the first sentence, I will read, "the law regulates the use of protocol objects, the purpose and method of their use, determines the beneficiaries for use and the method of financing these objects." The decision or rules referred to above, governments, refer to the list of these protocol facilities and their purpose. Much more should therefore be determined as in the decision. Determine what is stated in this first sentence of this proposed law. I am very surprised that, in fact, some people in general refuse to approach the law to regulate these matters. I'm talking to the law. Why? Because it's not enough for the government to decide. I think it's a matter of such importance that the National Assembly here should arrange it. However, in order to be settled, I do not accept those arguments that are cited by those who feel that these matters do not need to be settled, because there is a tradition, because we have to trust, because it works honestly with these objects and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, traditions are different. In some traditions, someone who is long in power uses these objects as their property, but protocol facilities are not owned by the president, they are not owned by ministers, but are owned by citizens, they are owned by taxpayers, gentlemen! If the government or the president rents a protocol facility, he rents it. And in civil society, it is known that rent is regulated by a lease. As representatives of the people, we consider this law to be a lease on the government - a lease contract, so that we can say how these facilities should be used. Therefore, I am surprised Members that they oppose the legal regulation of this problem. If some of the government might not want to handle this, I would understand, and I find that hard to believe. If things are not arranged, then the government has many instances of evidence, perhaps justified or unjustifiable, it is necessary to defend why it has been used, why it has not been used, and so on. I think that even if the government wanted to use these things clearly, it would not be against the law, but would even support it. I welcome those who have seen in this law the importance of regulating these issues and have proposed additions. If we accept that this law goes into debate, there will be enough time to complete the articles and arrange them. However, it seems to me that this feeling that such a purchased plane will not be owned by someone and that even apartments are not owned by someone, that the government's business cars are not owned by those who use them, but are only leased. Gentlemen, this feeling is too little in our government, too little! This may have been drawn from the time when Tito felt that Brioni was his own, his own. But the feeling that all of this has been given to the government and leased to us is still to be preserved. And that's also a step towards that consciousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you very much. My colleague's not here, so I'm asking if my colleague Vizjak would like a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna use the word I'm offering because I see I'm the last.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u274	The government is still behind you, Comrade Vizjak, Representative, Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u275	Well, then there are others behind me. In fact, there have been some indications that European practice does not know such legislation because it is based on tradition, on some over a period of established rules, which I agree with. We're a young democracy in ten years, and I don't think we have that tradition. This also leads to ambiguity if I use an even more kind word. And that's why we need clear rules. I therefore argue that we are assessing that the law is the right form to lay the foundations. I believe that 50 years from now we wouldn't need a law because this tradition and practice of ours would be wasted and we probably wouldn't need it. But once again, I stress, we are at the beginning. Last but not least, in a situation where we are also faced with the functioning of this government and why we are not finally proposing from our party a serious debate on the Convention on the Future of Slovenia, when we have problems with poverty, with unemployment and not seeing any positive trends, it would be a symbolic act for the State, this Parliament and the Government to want one such problematic area in which something can be saved, seriously regulated by the highest act, that is by law. But you're not ready. Why isn't it? I've already stressed it. But I personally assess that because the proposal comes from the wrong side. It is not true, Mr Potč, that in the proposal we deny the existence of a price collector and that we deny the existence of a public economic institution and that we deny the management of these protocol facilities so far. We only stress, as in the first article and as has been pointed out several times in today's debates, that the purpose and method of use of protocol facilities and the excusers for the use of these facilities have not been sufficiently regulated. That is why we want to make this clear and, of course, to regulate more transparently both the operation and the use of budgetary money for protocol purposes. Once again, the ambition of the law is not to regulate the universal use of protocol facilities, but of protocol facilities at protocol events, and thus opens the law to the possibility of using protocol facilities for commercial purposes. I don't know where you're getting your information and where you're getting your information from to suggesting that this law prevents you from doing so. That's not true. The law focuses on the use of protocol objects at protocol events, lists them, excuses, method of use, etc. I think that's the key. It also defines what a protocol event is. That seems to be the key. This is said, wants and ambition is more clarity, more transparency in this area. And even the opposite of reading this proposal that it will require more money, I think it is unfounded, because the law will allow and the purpose of the applicants is that, if it is unhappily written by you, we can also correct it. In short, the purpose of the proposal is also that, of course, these protocol events are also used for commercial purposes, at prices that determine maintenance and development. I think that is why it is really important to listen to these observations as an argument why you are against, although I say again, this argument is not available and it is not for the proponents to limit the use of protocol objects at the current price for both the same and the other commercial use. I would also like to point out that Mrs Zupanov has opened up a very important area and I think that this is also the right field of discussion. This is to say that it would not apply to objects which are essentially prescribed in the decision, to shrink, their number to decrease, to concentrate on a few objects and to get them to a higher level, and with others to manage one way or another. One of the proposals was before the sale. Although one particular sale was meant here, the villas Bled probably. I think that's a real discussion. I think that the real debate is also about concrete content, but not about rejecting and even encouraging the proposers is something that is not the ambition of the proponents. The ambition of the applicants is to clearly define the rules of the game of use of protocol facilities, so that, of course, it is also rational to look at the state budget via-a-vis of this use and does not question the commercial use of these protocol facilities. I think that the vote will, of course, show how and what, but once again, I strongly reject the remarks made to the motioner that the purpose of the proposal was a major discussion on a small subject. I think that, unfortunately, because of just one reading, according to the statements of the parliamentary groups, this will be a small discussion on the big topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Prime Minister General, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u277	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u278	You can also answer the question raised by Mrs Zupanov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u279	Mr Vizjak, I believe that your intention was not to restrict it, but if it were to be consistent, I should, of course, withdraw the bill. However, when I listened to the debates, ladies and gentlemen of the Members, you all essentially justified why marriage was not necessary. The law, the ambition of the law, as it is written, is to replace some relatively well-ordered area with some new regulation that will have full holes that will prevent market economy and ultimately entail an additional burden on the budget for some amount between 400 and 500 million tolars. I'll tell you one more time. These facilities, which are not exclusively protocol facilities, are managed by a public economic institution that operates on the market as a tourist organisation, if Mrs Zupanov prefers this term. As such, we acquire funds invested in the maintenance of these facilities, which are also cultural, and in this way it relieves taxpayers of the cost that I say is somewhere between 400 and 500 million. All acts governing the status of such facilities shall be published in the Official Journal. The price list, you know, is like any price list is public. Anyone can see it. Everyone can calculate how much the cost of coalition parties who have a meeting on Sunday in Kokri and for which they will of course get the bill and will also pay and believe me, Mrs. Zupanova, I apologize, I think that if you have money to go to another inn, believe me, I recommend that you go to the Hill where you will get a better and better service for the same price or even cheaper. I think it would be good if Parliament and, in short, all state institutions, as has already been said, used these state-owned facilities and public services in order to in some way relieve budgetary costs. By the way, even today, these facilities are open to all political parties who, of course, pay their bills and, to the best of my knowledge, also benefit many. All the governments, including the Demos coalition, eventually prepared key documents of this country on the Rači island, which is also part of this complex. These facilities are now available to everyone under the same conditions outside the protocol application, which is clearly defined. These aren't government facilities, these aren't government facilities. The government doesn't see them, no minister sees them as property. By the way, since the lease was already mentioned. You will not believe, even there is such an act as the Office of the President of the Republic with the Public Economic Service Office of the Protocol Service, which regulates these matters in what way a person pays. By the way, I mentioned earlier, and once again, to the President of the State, Janez Drnovšk, an account will be issued which is personally in his name if he benefits from the service, as it is issued on behalf of Mr Viszak, if he goes to one of these facilities and, say, dines or any of Janez Novak's. It's the same bill. And in the same way he gets paid, or he owes it to him. By the way, all of these protocol events, all the maintenance, all of what the country actually costs, is about a billion 400 million, a billion 450, varies year-to-year depending on investment activities in these facilities, ranging from 200 million to 300 million. And of these, a billion 400 are spent on the Hill, and about 300 million are the costs of protocol events in other facilities, with 71% of protocol events being carried out in the government palace. I hope that's why you won't stop the government from sitting in this palace. In the end, the National Assembly may also hold a meeting in Brdo, any working body, any party, any body and will pay at a price that is valid and is, of course, lower for the public authorities than is applicable on the market. By the way, if anyone's interested and wants to spend the night with breakfast in the Presidential Suite in the Brdo Castle, they'll count down 115,000. Few officials in this country can afford it. But people in this country, especially foreigners, are able to afford it, pay it, and thus contribute to the maintenance of this castle. And all these things would be the law if it were adopted in the way that it was proposed to prevent, because Article 7 only provides for a new exclusive right only to officials, and only if this private stay is regulated in relation to protocol events. And I don't know why we should assign exclusive rights to officials. All have the same conditions as all other citizens, the right to stay on the Hill, use these services and also pay them. Therefore, I ask you not to accept this law, because you will be a relatively well-ordered area, but you can talk about getting some repairs, blurring out and re-arranged and also opening up new additional costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary General. We have concluded our debate, facing different opinions, until the time set for the expiry of this agenda item, we have one hour left. We have the opportunity to exercise this right on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 71 of our Rules of Procedure, so I will immediately ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. One. Anyone else? Two. Then I won't give you another chance. Just two? Comrade Kremjar and colleague Sok. You have seven minutes. Please, my friend Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm gonna need that much. I think I have to say first that I am not in favour of handling this in the way that it is proposed. Not because I'd be out of order, what's been heard is far from that. The area must be regulated and can be regulated by law, or it can be regulated by a decision as it is. If it is a violation, it could be a violation or a law or a decision, it is totally irrelevant. We can, if we are to say that certain things are not good enough in practice to deal with infringements, as some have written, then appropriate procedures can be carried out and rules can be found within the existing regime, whether they are broken or not. This does not require the adoption of a new law and new legislation. It is simple, as we hear the Secretary-General, that the area is well regulated, which means it is regulated. We have a government conclusion that speaks very clearly about these things, and there is no point in repeating things. I'd like to say the following. I'll just give you a few examples. We have some very regulated countries, where they also have no legal regulation in this area, but very similar to what we have right now. In Austria, for example, the use of protocol facilities is not regulated by specific laws or regulations, which is considered to be a federal or a country level. And it's hard to argue that these aren't state-ordered. The use of protocol facilities in Denmark is not regulated by specific law or regulations. Finland - there is no special law or regulations under the law; Sweden, as well. We could now argue that we are a younger democracy and I don't know what, but it's irrelevant to this thing - whether it's arranged or not. If we have an area, and I am sure that we have enough well-managed, then all we have to do is trust the end of the government, because this government is being set up by Parliament, because it has not made up itself who will be in the government and what they will do, and then stick to the rules that are there. If there are violations, action must be taken and it is known exactly how it is. However, if there is no violation, which could be the same under the law, the matter is as good as it is. Therefore, I see no reason to adopt legislation to regulate this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u282	And my colleague Sok, and then I'll close the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u283	If the Secretary-General says it's all right, we can believe it or not. I belong to that group of opposition Members who can say, well, the Secretary-General has said so, but that does not mean that it is. Now I'm going to use your words, Comrade Kremjar. The last time our fellow Member, Školč, explained the same interpretation of the concept of pornography, you said that the more you listen to this debate, the more you are convinced that this should be accepted, the more we said that it was not necessary at the time. This is how I now feel about this matter - the more we talk about it, the more we need to adopt a legal solution so that before our citizens who have to pay for it as taxpayers, it is clear who, what, when, how, how, how, and so on. As long as this is not regulated by some law, as long as only a few government decisions are in force, there may be, if you want, various speculative issues and dilemmas. However, it seems to me that, while this debate is under way, there is still a spirit of the past, I do not know, from the time of Comrade Titus, when no one even thought of discussing his protocol objects. When I saw Brione himself, mentioned earlier by my colleague Tsukati, I asked myself how much Slovenia had to contribute to make such an island, one such luxury could be maintained there. God knows how much money was spent on Brione and all the other protocol facilities that the then President of Yugoslavia had everywhere in all the republics. We live in an extremely socially sensitive moment. We are living in a time of democracy, and it is only right that this matter be settled in some way. This marriage is just an attempt in this direction. It is true that I do not know on what basis Mr. Secretary-General explains that this would be a greater burden on the State budget, since Article 7 of the Law states that it is possible to use these protocol facilities for other purposes, it is said, to use them in such a way as to obtain as much resources as possible outside the State budget, while, since I have this possibility here now, the Secretary-General will be asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u284	You can't do this anymore because he doesn't have a chance to answer you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u285	Good. Then I'll just comment on one thing he said. He said if anyone wants to stay on the Hill, they have to pay 115 thousand tolars for it. I would really like to know how many people, the Slovenians who paid themselves, took advantage of this opportunity and, of course, paid so much. After all, you can set the price for a service by simply saying that it makes no sense. That way you can disable use through the price. You should see that, too, if that's true. I just can't agree to his word, and all he said was buy or agree to if I use Mr. Potts' words to drink water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u286	Comrade Kremjar, you have a chance to replicate, only if there's no controversy. The explanation is that your debate should be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u287	I know. Thank you, President. Replica, thanks for the heads-up. Since I was mentioned, I am returning my calls. The decision to lay down protocol rules, Comrade Sok, is a public document, such as a public document. Anyone can read it. It reads Article 58, which speaks of the use of protocol facilities. And it is public, nothing is mysterious, nothing is hidden, things are transparent, but it can be talked about whether everything is relevant, what is written in it, and then a certain procedure is initiated, that the government does something else, if someone thinks it's wrong, but the document is public, is valid and works and must be done according to this document as it should be done by law if it was adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u288	This will conclude the debate on this bill's proposal, which was also the last debate this afternoon on a draft law. When I break this agenda, I will announce the start of the decision at 8:25 p.m. At that time, we will also decide, inter alia, on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law that we have now considered is appropriate or not for further consideration. I'm breaking up with that point. We continue at 8:25 a.m., then I invite you all to attend, because we will begin our decision immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u289	Most of us have been here for 12 hours and more, and it is normal that the concentration may also give up a little bit, so I especially kindly ask for your attention. We are moving to the vote on the agenda items that were due yesterday or today. We will first decide on matters related to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY, THIS IS WITH A ENDED POSITION - QUESTIONS FROM BUSINESS AND BUSINESS. Five of our colleagues have proposed six conclusions, six colleagues, six conclusions that we must decide on. May I have your attention, please? Ambassador Marko Diaci proposed a decision that reads: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question of fertility. Voice explanation, please, Comrade Diaca. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u290	Respectable. I would not refer to the facts which have led me to propose a discussion on the answer to this question. Therefore, I ask you all once again to confirm by pressing on the key for, which is number 4, that we are discussing this subject at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u291	We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the proposal of Comrade Diacia to hold the next regular session on the response to his question to the Prime Minister's question. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Peace in the hall. 69 present, 22 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] The decision proposed by his colleague Diaca did not receive the necessary support. Mr Peca suggested that the debate should take place on his question to the Minister of Finance and the Minister's response. We'll decide that. We vote, before we explain the vote, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u292	Your Honors are here! The purpose of the proposal for a debate is not to meet opposition and positions on public finances and to try to gain some kind of political point. The aim is only one, that this National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, would meet and learn about the measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia, on the one hand, to combat inflation and, on the other hand, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that further information provided by the Ministry of Finance would also be available to us in order to decide for only one purpose, this is a reduction in inflationary aspirations. I propose that you support the proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u293	We are deciding on the proposal for a decision made by my colleague Pec regarding the response of the Minister of Finance to his question of inflation. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 76 present, 22 for and 49 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] The proposal didn't get the required majority. Mr Jerovšek proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to his parliamentary question concerning the formation of national consciousness and national identity in the educational and educational process." Comrade Jerovšek, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I think it's an extremely important topic that we're all interested in. In view of the fact that our schools have so neglected the independence and building of national identity, national pride, patriotism among our young people, it is a major problem. Such a person who does not raise this school to him - of course the family here too - can be a weak member, and this is bad for our country. When yesterday's Reflections stated that I opened this topic, this extraordinary lack of these substances, that only one lesson in secondary school was intended for Slovenian independence and that the exam substance ended with the consideration of Slovenian history in 1955, the plasma of calls, also today, was torn. In fact, all people are aware that this area is improperly regulated. We need Members to be so responsible here that we give political encouragement to the Minister that, as he said, he will encourage experts to change this matter in the curriculum. I don't think there's gonna be a vote against us doing anything for what our future depends on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u295	We will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision that he has proposed and now explain to his colleague Jerovšek. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're in the middle of a vote. 75 in attendance, 24 in and 46 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. The fourth proposal under item 1 of the agenda was proposed by a colleague, Mr Bayuk, to discuss at the next meeting of the National Assembly the response of the Minister of Finance to his question regarding the management of capital shares of the capital company and of the Slovenian compensation company. Comrade Bayuk wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u296	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The question I have raised to the Minister is no news. I'm sure colleagues and colleagues will remember that this is not the first time that I have asked representatives of the government in this regard. The fact is that when the capital company started its business, it had investments in 1,300 companies in its portfolio. Based on the data we have from the government itself, at the beginning of this year it had only 354 companies. This means that during this period there was some strong concentration of capital and these investments in certain undertakings. In some of these companies, however, the government, the Slovenian state, says all of us and, on behalf of us, the government as the owner has responsibility and the majority shares. One such case is that of Paloma. In Paloma, the Slovenian state has 70.8% of its capital. Now we hear in the media that we're on the verge of some kind of sale. On the basis of an evaluation made by the appreciater, the Minister acknowledged that she was a appreciater, that is to say the lady who did so is at the same time the President of the Paloma Supervisory Board. Mr Minister said publicly that this is not in line with the principles that he himself designed as an expert before becoming a finance minister in our country. The question is, therefore, what is the government's strategy for these companies, which play a key role in the economic development of our country. The answer was that there is no such strategy in this particular case. It is essential, however, that we hold this debate, because it is the duty of the National Assembly to also support these issues, which depend on the stability of our financial system and, above all, on the pension reform that has been carried out in the past. It is imperative that we tackle this problem that is our responsibility. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u297	Can we make a decision? Please, the National Assembly is now deciding on a proposal from Comrade Bayuk. We're voting. 74 present. 27 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 27.]] [[44 votes against.]] We move on to the fifth proposal of colleague Dorian Marshic. This suggests that we hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question regarding the resolution of book-keeping matters in Slovenia. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u298	I will vote against the proposal as well as my colleagues and colleagues, not because this issue would not deserve to be debated before this national assembly. On the contrary, I would. After all, calls have been enormous in recent years regarding judicial backlogs. With regard to some outstanding matters that are being drawn and, of course, also with regard to some final conclusions. As the Ombudsman's report is expected to be in front of, or in, the working bodies of, the National Assembly in autumn, and the State Prosecutor's report, and so on, that is to say, the opportunity for debate is still a great deal, and especially because, among others, when Mr Dorian Marsič proposed this debate, we have also moved to a stage where the National Assembly is turning into a debate club, not a decision-making body, we believe that it is necessary to avoid excessive debates, which is thus an ad hoc question. I am not talking about whether they are thorough questions, and there are many initiatives, but there is a need to prepare a single point, a material, of course, to draw conclusions and to make a profit out of this. There is no benefit from the debate itself and, in particular, if there is an exaggerated generalisation, there could also be harm. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u299	Okay. We have a proposal from colleague Marshic, colleague Jerovšek, colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u301	That's the explanation for the voice. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I will show more responsibility than my forerunner. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u302	There's no controversy in the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u303	With regard to the extremely important issue of writing into the land book, as this is also an important issue from a national point of view, because the condition of the catastrophes in Slovenia is an extremely important issue. [[...]] I don't think we should close our eyes to such an important issue and deny important issues. It is not true that these national themes do not concern this House. As far as he is concerned and I do not know who offers more appropriate levels, more appropriate forums than the Slovenian Parliament. I'll back my buddy Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u304	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you for your word. I too will vote in favour of this proposal and, of course, I cannot agree that it is a national assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u306	There's no controversy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u307	Well, that was an evaluation. So, we were all named here as some kind of debate club. I also regret that, after these discussions, the National Assembly cannot draw some conclusions, some views. This is simply a consequence of the rules of procedure which have been proposed and adopted here. He was proposed by someone who calls us a debate club today. It is a pity that we are not able to vote on such proposals and to hold the debates proposed by our fellow Member, Dr Andrej Bajuk. See if the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is acting as the main valuer of an undertaking and if there is a divestment of state assets on this basis [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u308	This is not the subject of this point of this Decision. I have to ask for some discipline, because otherwise it will lose its meaning. Comrade Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u309	I would like to explain what I am going to vote for in order to discuss these delays in this country, because this is an extremely big problem. I do not understand why the opposition to why we should not discuss this and the Members in their debate have contributed to the resolution of these matters. After all, this is what the European Union requires of us, and something has to change in this area before entering the European Union. As it is now, such a situation cannot continue. These judicial backlogs are too large, too many of them, and our citizens and citizens are damaged through this. I will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u310	Before I give my word to my colleague, let me just remind myself that several times the rules of procedure have been mentioned. The Business Commission has now called on everyone to make any comments after one year of implementation of this new act, and many now have the opportunity to make their comments and proposals in this regard. My friend Marshich now has the floor, followed by Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would like to remind you that at the time of the parliamentary questions raised, I have asked Minister Bisak two questions. One was linked to the land book in Slovenia to which I received the answer. Although I was not entirely satisfied, what Minister Bizjak said at the time is a good guarantee that in that part of the Koper municipality, where people are still solving their books in the Republic of Croatia, the problem will soon be resolved. The fact is, I have asked the National Assembly to hold a debate on the subject of judicial backlog. And given that the real debate will be held very soon in this National Assembly, regarding the Ombudsman's report, I agree that it is probably not worth repeating the words twice. I will support my proposal because I still believe it was in place at the time. And you decide what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u312	Dr. Bayuk's colleague. That's the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u313	That's the question. Thank you very much, Mr. President. The right to be suspended shall be waived. This is also the case with us in Slovenia. And we, as legislative authorities in this country, are responsible for this, and I think it is very important if this national debate and action are to take place, irrespective of the possibilities that this Rules of Procedure gives us or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u314	My colleague Zupanov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I am pleased that colleague Marshič has requested a debate on the judicial backlog. I myself asked the Minister of Justice the same question last month on the same subject. But I'm a little disappointed that his colleagues don't support him. I did not allow myself to do this because you refuse to do so. As the largest party, however, I would only expect you to make such important decisions, even though we will talk about this in relation to the Ombudsman's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u316	The National Assembly will now move on to the decision-making process. We have a proposal from our colleague, Mr Marsic, to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the answer to his question. We're voting. 75 present, 29 for and 41 for. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that this proposal also did not receive the necessary support. Mr Tanko suggested that the next meeting should discuss the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to his question of non-compliance with the law on public procurement. Comrade Tanko, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. In my question, I have also limited or referred to the Court of Auditors' report for the preceding year and the previous year, which lists the type of infringements of the Public Procurement Act. I must say that the abuse of the public procurement law causes great damage to the State and there are many suspicions that it is illegal to have public funds. Finally, there are many things listed in the Court of Auditors' report that payments are made without contracts, payments made on the basis of fictitious documents. I must say that I am very interested in how the government and the relevant government authorities have reacted to this report by the Court of Auditors. According to our estimate, there are no special reactions. Given that I have asked the Secretary-General of the Government in due time [[also in writing]] I expected an appropriate answer. However, there was no answer to the question. I think it is our duty to ask the government to make us aware of the measures it has or has not carried out in this area. I think this proposal is entirely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u318	Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Regrettably, the Secretary-General, at least as lawyers call me, cannot be the subject of interpretation, because his answer, not only to the ignorance of the law and what is actually going on in this area, could certainly be involved in something like this and, above all, his approach to what the law says and what his role is in this national assembly. The debate on this matter is absolutely necessary, and I hope that you will support this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u320	The National Assembly will move on to a decision. We are here on the proposal by our colleague Tank to discuss the answer to his question. Please. We're voting. 74 present, 23 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary support. The last of the proposals is a proposal from colleague Puksic. He also proposes that we hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance. I ask my colleague Pukšič to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You mentioned earlier that after one year of operation it is possible to make proposals for corrections to the Rules of Procedure. It is likely that more than those in this Rules, or in other words, will be said, the rules of procedure have proved to be extremely poor or very, very bad. That is why, of course, it also comes to the fact that there is a need through this institution, which unfortunately does not have any substantive value in order to reach any conclusions, but the only option remains to hold this discussion on the answer, if you do not think that it is good enough. Those who think this is unnecessary are written in this way and, as I have already mentioned, the only option. Of course, I also agree that the rules of procedure should be amended in this direction in order for this to have a greater weight. Now, let me move on to this proposal of mine. Of course, with the reply of the Minister of Finance regarding the financing of the municipalities, I was not satisfied, but not only that I would not be satisfied with this, no one has actually been satisfied with the way in which the municipalities have been financed for at least four years. The fact is that 28 of the 193 congregations we have have 36, 37 billion more resources than the other 165. And so this debate is supposed to be for these 165 municipalities, which cover about 60 percent of the population and also so much of the area of the Republic of Slovenia. With a law such as that, the income by balancing up to the appropriate consumption is extremely different from that of the population and, of course, in some cases it exceeds up to 80 per cent of the appropriate consumption. In his reply, when I asked him what he would do to address these irregularities in the preparation of the 2004 budget, the Minister replied that nothing, because it was necessary to amend the law, but that this law, which he was prepared, could not possibly be proposed because there was no agreement. I believe that he will be able to find consensus in 165 municipalities, because it is imperative that they be able to work in their development areas at all, so that they have other opportunities to apply for tenders than they are now. Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities also states that invitations to tender may be made so that municipalities where income per capita is lower than income per capita of the Republic of Slovenia will receive a higher percentage of the percentage. I therefore propose that we open the debate and give it to the Minister [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u322	My friend Puksic [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u323	the possibility to present proposals and, of course, how it will solve this problem. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u324	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u325	Thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! This proposal by Mr Puksic [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u326	Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u327	I'm sure I'll support myself. [[...]] Otherwise, I find it rather tragic and funny that most Members who know this problem are aware of this unfair, unfair financing of municipalities, at least some municipalities, which are in different ways disadvantaged, if I say so. As is the case, for example, my congregation, where I live, which has a huge area, an extremely rare population, an extremely geographical spread, cannot provide infrastructure in essence. Where are all the other conditions for a normal life, both economic development and cultural life, sports infrastructure and everything else belonging to a modern organised society, a European organised society? This is absurd, what's going on in this area. I am firmly convinced, honourable Members, that you are well aware of this issue. Regardless of what the government thinks, they can think what they want, and they can't be coordinated because of me, but it's the duty of Members and Members to resolve this issue if the government isn't capable of it. Let's be aware of that. However, if you do not want to assume these responsibilities, then say that you do not take any responsibility, that you do not take responsibility for the situation in the country as it is, and also give up your mission and give up your salary, because that is the only right and fair and fair then.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u328	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u329	This Parliament does not want to take responsibility for the most important things that are happening in this country. He won't. And that's absurd! That is why I support this proposal, at least we see what the government thinks in this area, and we will give our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u330	We will decide on my colleague Puksic's proposal to hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question. We're voting. 73 present, 25 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. We have therefore decided on the seventh proposal, on all of them, and have concluded the agenda. At 2. We have a second defensive proposal for a law on the provision of air traffic navigation services and a number of amendments tabled, so I will ask your attention. We'll try to make decisions so we can follow. If anyone thinks it's not understandable what we're deciding, stop me immediately so we can explain. We will first decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3. We're voting. 73 present, 53 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 5 cannot be decided - I think the proposaler is aware - because the second reading was not open and the problem with the harmonisation amendment will have to be solved. We have a proposal for an amendment to Article 6 of the ZLSD Group. We're voting. 74 present, 57 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. The same parliamentary group shall submit an amendment to Article 7. We're voting. 69 present, 58 for and 3 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has received support. Article 8 is subject to the amendment by the SLS Group of Members. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 25 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the required majority. This was a vote on Article 8. We have an amendment to Article 9 of the SLS Group. We're voting. 72 in attendance, 25 in and 38 in. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support he needed. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u331	Before deciding on the amendment under point 9, I would like to ask you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u332	Article 10, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u333	Article 9(4) of Regulation (EC)
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u334	Wait a minute. Section 9 is exhausted. I'm sorry. [[...]] Excuse me! Second amendment. I'm sorry, Comrade Sponik. I asked for understanding earlier if there would be any mistake on my part. Please, I'm sorry. You have the floor. You have the floor, please. That's right. We're under point 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u335	Excuse me! We would now like to ask you, when we decide on the amendment under point 10, before voting on this amendment, to receive a 15-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u336	Just a minute. We are now deciding, Comrade Podobnik, if I understand correctly, on point 2 or on the second amendment of the ZLSD Group to Article 9. Okay. Is it understandable? We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to amend the fourth paragraph, which is tabled by the ZLSD. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? Then I'll have 15 minutes off. Peace in the hall. If it's not clear, somebody raise your hand while time is running out on the screen. Then there's no more talk of retreat. 69 present, 50 for and 13 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. The head of the SLS delegation requested an amendment to Article 10 prior to the decision, we have two SLS and ZLS Members, 15 minutes' rest. In accordance with the rules of procedure, I allocate 15 minutes of rest. At 21 and 15 minutes, the National Assembly will continue its work by deciding on the two amendments to Article 10 at the 2nd item of the agenda. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u337	Colleagues and colleagues! Please come to the hall. We'll continue with the decision. Comrade Podobnik told me he didn't want to say a word. Do you want to? Excuse me. Comrade Squirrel wants a word. Before I give it to you, I will just wait for my colleagues to come to the hall and skip the clock for a minute with a certain time when we continue the debate. Now you have the floor, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u338	President, thank you so much for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment to Article 10. We wrote it on the basis of comments and proposals made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which were also made at the meeting of the Committee. We expect that the majority in the National Assembly will also support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u339	Good. We have two amendments. We're at the 10th. The first is submitted by the SLS Group of Members, the second ZLSD. We vote first. We are voting on the amendment of the SLS to Article 10. 61 present, 40 for and 16 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 16.]] The amendment was accepted. On the amendment of the ZLSD Group of Members. 56 in attendance, 41 in and 8 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[8 against.]] I note that we have also accepted this amendment to Article 10. We are at Article 13 and an amendment tabled. We are voting on the amendment of the ZLSD Group to Article 13. We're in the middle of a vote. 63 present, 45 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 16. We're voting. 63 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment received support. We are with Article 20 and the amendment of the same Group of Members. We're voting. 66 present, 27 for and 36 for. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the same parliamentary group to Article 30. We're voting. 69 present, 50 for and 17 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 17.]] I'm guessing he's got support. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of Articles 32 were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at its next meeting. Thus, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of our Rules of Procedure, I now propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for the third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. 69 present, 58 for and 6 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The second item of the agenda is exhausted. We're going to break three. Period of the day - Second defence of the law on amendments and additions to the law on the police. We have an amendment by the Socialist Party's Group to Article 3. Please, you have the floor. On behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u340	Explanation of voice. At this amendment, I must say that I am in a dilemma as to my decision. The minister says he has no influence on the work of the police right now. Mr Jerovšek expressed some of the concerns which have now been confirmed to me this afternoon in the morning session. I announced the question before yesterday with the following sentence: "I will ask the Minister of the Interior about the social dialogue with the Police Union of Slovenia." Since I was unable to ask an oral question yesterday, I sent this question in writing to the Minister today because I really had a part or union of Slovenian police officers signed by Andrej Pšenica. In the attachment, I sent a letter that I received the other day after college. The same day, it is said today, but I received a letter from another part of the union, saying, "The Minister did not intervene in union freedom," addressed to me, saying, "You received a letter a few days ago from Mr. This and this. We strongly reject such infatuation and involvement of the minister, because the minister has not intervened in this sphere." Now the question really arises to me whether the minister intervenes in the sphere by informing the police immediately and they then sent me this letter, or - even worse - the possibility to which I do not even hope to think - that the police follow rather precisely what the MP gets to the National Assembly and then behave accordingly. I will, of course, support this amendment. Clearly, though, I would like to have quality police supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u341	Thank you very much, Comrade Zampernik. Excuse me? Procedural proposal? Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u342	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! What Mr. Zampernik said is shocking. Looks like it's coming. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u343	Can you stop talking, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u344	Seems like a fellow Viceroy is being controlled and haunted, because otherwise you can't imagine watching him. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u345	Procedural proposal, colleague Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u346	Stop mocking about serious issues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u347	Peace in the hall! Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u348	Otherwise, he himself is not subject to mistrust, but today he is extremely concerned. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u349	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u350	Look, I just got an anonymous phone call recently, if I'm aware as chairman of the commission that a fellow Viceroy is being pursued.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u351	What is the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u352	And then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u353	I'll give you a chance to substantiate it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u354	I'll explain it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u355	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u356	Then I read his interview at Dinner, where he said that a lawyer wrote to an entrepreneur and said he was taking people into his home. When I was with my colleague, Mirk Zammernik, I know there's no road. Only by tracking and wiretapping [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u357	What is your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u358	And my procedural proposal is until it is clarified whether Comrade Mirko Zámernik is controlled by special methods, but disguised to suspend this vote. This is more important than anything else. I suggest we end this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u359	Look, buddy Jerovšek. This question that you raise may be relevant, only not to decide in this case. The decision does not affect the content of the law we adopt. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? There are many other options for us to decide about what you've triggered. But it's not about the content of this law. Therefore, please understand that I cannot put this proposal to the vote. For we can adopt procedural proposals on all topics at all points of the agenda. This is not the purpose of the business arrangement. So, please, we can get on with our work. We have a proposal from the Socialist Party's Group for an amendment to Article 3. Please, Comrade Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u360	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, I wouldn't have answered, I didn't mean to explain my voice, but not to start with the content that we're talking about at all, I would say that this amendment is for the deletion of 2.b, c and č of the article that is the article that causes concern in our parliamentary group, because we believe that we can, I stress, that the politicisation of the police can come. I explained this extensively in the morning debate, so I would not repeat it now, just so that we can remember what we are going to vote on. And, of course, I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u361	Thank you. Comrade Kontic, behind you, Comrade Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Already in my debate this morning, I have said that it is reasonable to vote against the proposed amendment. The first supervisor's debate on the monitoring committee, of which I am also a member, went beyond the good taste limit and is an additional argument for a vote against the amendment. On the one hand, we demand the responsibility of the minister for the work of the police; on the other hand, we would limit the possibility of professional, not political, professional, supervision by authorised persons. This law, contrary to the allegations made this morning, will not introduce political commissioners, we will not introduce a single-party system, but unfortunately also with this law and all the laws passed so far we are not and I fear that we will not also reduce crime and crime to the level that we have once had. I will vote against this amendment and finish my explanation with the old Slovenian saying "each and every one of you measures." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u363	Comrade Skull, behind you mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u364	Thank you very much. I would also like to make some kind of procedural proposal, because I think it's worrying that there's something that we might find funny to do just that. From this point of view, Mr President, I would suggest that we stop this point, continue to decide on other things, wait for the Minister to come and explain how he sees this time series of papers that have followed. In a way, it is also humiliating to the National Assembly that ministers or their own, I will say, adversaries do not sit in decision-making and help to clear up complications. Of course, I hope that the supposed colleague Jerovsk is wrong. On the other hand, I would like to tell you that, in principle, I also trust normally in the institutions that we have, at the same time, and I will say, in both of these systems that I have lived in, enough experience to know that it is not possible to trust this without limit, and that it is the task of Members to be on top of these things. That is why, Mr President, I propose that we stop the decision on this, try to get a way to explain it, and continue. I know this is not a condition for deciding on the motherhood of the law, but I see no reason to set up an investigative committee to resolve such a simple question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u365	Look, buddy Skull, there's something we need to be aware of. Minister, even if I have been challenged now, I cannot give my word by the rules of procedure. As I said before, on this matter, which may be relevant, we shall hold a consultation to obtain the necessary answers, but this is not directly related to this material, in order to justify the proposal for an interruption in this respect. Perhaps it would be wiser to stop today's work for consultation in the parliamentary group and continue with other issues. But I must say: even if we interrupt today, because the Minister of the Interior is coming to the National Assembly, we cannot give the Minister a word. Please, colleague, let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u366	There are various ways to make this clear. It is clear to me that it is no longer possible to discuss this. Fifteen minutes ago, Comrade Podobnik requested a 15-minute break to clear up a question. He cleared it up. Things kept going. I do not apply myself to clear this up with Minister Bohince, but I think that in consultation with the Socialist Party's Group, I could explain my vision of this follow-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u367	That's right. That's another suggestion, and now I'm asking [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u368	The President, it is only possible to do so by breaking up at this point, but I see no reason not to continue with other items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u369	There's no doubt about that. Just, look, when I put a procedural proposal to the vote, we need to be clear why I did it so that we don't make precedents that would apply to general practice. If a motion for a recess is necessary for consultation in the parliamentary group, this is a legitimate proposal and I will put it to the vote. This would allow us not to continue to make this decision today, to go to the next items of the agenda, and we will continue to make this decision tomorrow. If that is the proposal, I would put it to the vote. On the proposal that we continue to discuss this item tomorrow, to interrupt it today, I propose that the National Assembly decide. But is this a proposal, Comrade Skolcz, to be put to the vote, or not? Excuse me? [[The ad from the bench.]] For consultation? I believe so, in the Group of Members. Of course! Please, my colleague, was your proposal a day on behalf of the parliamentary group? Just a moment, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u370	If you think we can resolve this in this way, then I accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u371	This is the proposal of the parliamentary group that I now put to the vote [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Just a moment, please! Make sure I solve the matter, please, for peace. It's 6:30! I propose - this is my proposal - that today we stop making this decision, we will decide tomorrow, on Friday, when we end our decision on the other agenda items that are due tomorrow. I hereby suspend the decision on point three for today. I ask that, by tomorrow, explanations be properly provided that will enable us to continue to make decisions. We are on the 4th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please? We have tabled amendments to Articles 2, 5 and 9a. The amendment is made by the New Slovenia Group, the other two by the Socialist Party Group. We will first decide on the proposal of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. We vote, I'm sorry, the deadline was raised before the start of the vote. First of all, colleague Brenčič, colleague Petty Officer. My friend Brenčič first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u372	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal, the amendment, because of the content I spoke about in the debate. I firmly believe that the concept of the law that we will now, first of all on amendments and then on the whole law, will be decided, in all things, by the concept of the law on disability organisations. And I see no reason why we should not allow humanitarian organisations to become involved in a higher form of organisation if they so decide. This only creates an opportunity for better and more transparent communication, both with state authorities and on the inside. On the contrary, these connected organisations in the National Council of Humanitarian Organisations must certainly understand each other more correctly. This does not result in unnecessary misunderstandings, since they work about all with the same content or similar content. Furthermore, there will also be a possible external conversation within the European Union, and in any way a much better quality in their work can be expected from this higher form of organisation. I don't see the reason. I really don't see him being given that opportunity because we're giving it on behalf of him. And we will do badly if we don't give you a chance, so of course I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u373	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u374	Thank you very much for your words and thank you very much for the words spoken by your fellow Member, Brenčič. This is exactly what I wanted to say: this is an opportunity, a good opportunity, both for humanitarian organisations and an easy work for the state authorities, in fact, when they wish to speak or obtain a word, an opinion or a proposal from humanitarian organisations. Slovenia is involved in international activities, and even in this case it will be very welcome if such a world is created in the Slovenian space. Of course, it is not meant to be, so the amendment is written so that it can, but it prescribes a minimum framework so that humanitarian organisations can be better connected to the world. We have experienced some who have worked in this area of how the worlds were formed, how much there was one argument, how much worry and anger has occurred in these years. And I think we could save up with this humanitarian organization, as well as the country, all these problems. I therefore propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u375	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u376	Thank you for your word. Unless, of course, this amendment is adopted, humanitarian organisations will still have the freedom to unite, as they know and know. However, if the amendment is not adopted, the State will not be able to transfer public powers to this community or association or in any way to that community, as it can pass them on to the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. I think this is very important, and that we should not allow discriminatory attitudes to allow disability organisations more opportunities to communicate with the country and to restrict humanitarian organisations in this regard. For this reason, I will, of course, support this amendment, which in no way restricts but opens up the possibility for humanitarian organisations to join and act together in a higher-a-vis state.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u377	Yeah, anyone else? No, no, no. We will decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 2. We're voting. 73 present, 30 for and 42 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposal was not adopted or the amendment was not adopted. The SLS Group shall submit an amendment to Article 5. We're voting, sorry. My friend Tsukati, explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u378	This amendment wants to correct a mistake that I do not know how it came into the last indent of Article 5. In fact, the last indent discusses the content of the work of humanitarian organisations, which is a condition or key to how a humanitarian organisation should acquire the status of a humanitarian organisation. However, in the fifth indent, this key does not allow this criterion and this content of the work of humanitarian organisations to refer to acute diseases or patients with acute problems and to persons with disabilities. Since, as has been said earlier in the morning, the present society of treated alcoholics, who are not chronic patients under Article 8 - i.e., Article 8 only considers untreated diseases to be chronic - has fallen out of this law. Only if we accept the amendment will this group of patients be able to be involved in the operation of humanitarian organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u379	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u380	I myself will support the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, because I want to contribute to reducing discrimination against persons on the verge of being harmed in any way. The concept of chronic disease does not cover disability, which is not caused by disease, but because of injury or something like that. Let's be patient, let's spread it that way. However, the division that some of you demand between disabled and humanitarian organisations is also ensured by this law, Article 2, when the humanitarian organisation cannot be a disability organisation at the same time. So, I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u381	The National Assembly will now decide on the proposal by Article 5 of the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group. We're voting. 70 present, 25 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The amendment shall be tabled by the same parliamentary group as Article 9.a. We're voting. 63 present, 45 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and concluded the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Please, if you could explain to the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u382	The third treatment is, as we have seen, placed on the agenda in September, so we propose that this should be the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u383	Can you reexplain the clear and clear proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u384	Excuse me! I understand. We therefore propose that the third is to be carried out normally, as envisaged, in September.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u385	The proposal for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a proposal for a decision which will now be decided by the National Assembly. We're voting. 68 present. 54 for and 7 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] This Decision is adopted. This concludes this agenda item. At the 5th item of the agenda, we have an interruption in the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on changes and additions to the acknowledgment on parental protection and family benefits. We are in the third stage of a reduced procedure. No amendments were tabled to the amended proposal. In the third reading of the amendments, it is not possible to invest, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. The competent legislature or the government has not informed me that the law is not harmonised so that we can decide on it. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u386	Explanation of voice. These changes in the law correct the errors that were made because of the urgency of the time and reckless decisions. We believe that these errors need to be corrected in order to ensure easier access to the services and rights of parents and children. Therefore, we will not oppose this law or these changes in the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u387	Anyone else? The National Assembly will decide on the law. We are voting on the law on changes and additions to the law on parental protection and family benefits. I take it the law has been passed. Out of 69 there's 67 for and no one's against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] This concludes the agenda item. At the 6th point, we continue with the suspension of the proposal for a law amending the law on war veterans. After a reduced procedure, we're in third treatment. Same warning as before. Even in this case, I am not informed of any non-compliance, so we will move on to a decision. Please, Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u388	That's right. At the time of State Savings, the ruling coalition commits first-class [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u389	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u390	Privileges for the category of persons who had nothing in common with Slovenian independence. They lived in another country, they didn't have citizenship. They didn't get citizenship until after '91. The government says these people are 250. About how many of these people there are, we've been cheated on a number of times. While there is not enough money for pensions, they remain at the lowest level and are granted to persons from other former Yugoslav republics the privileges of credit for revolutionary acts they carried out in another territory. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u391	Please, I won't be warning you over and over again that you don't talk in your food, because then we won't hear from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u392	This is unacceptable, and such things cannot be afforded. Nor does the law meet the basic conditions, as the government has not accounted for all the obligations that follow from this law, financial obligations. They talk about financial obligations for the future, but do not talk about financial obligations for the past. That's not how marriages work. So another privilege for this stashed pension fund, or state cash register. This is unacceptable for Slovenia, so I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u393	Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u394	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. Since that is also the case with the Constitutional Court decision and the legislative body, it is also incumbent upon the Constitutional Court to act in a responsible manner. But I hope from this title it's the last novel. And that some 100 million in the state budget will also remain for those generations that are looking for now, at this time, in this country, at this moment, their space under the sun.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u395	Anyone else? My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u396	Thank you very much. The law gives rights to people who had permanent residence in Slovenia on 23 December 2000. No one else outside this right under this law can get it. Because of this promise he made the Constitutional Law on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia. We didn't fill it out right away. And it does because this error was determined by the Constitutional Court and required us to settle this issue. Everything else means forgetting the situation we were in and the promises we made. But I also wish that this country would finally, but in all areas, not only when it comes to fighting to think about the new generations that need schools, health, jobs today, and that they will be as successful in this area as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u397	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u398	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll vote against it. For a simple reason, because decisions are also being made in this country, for those who have the status of veteran war for Slovenia and where it is written in white: because of the 16-day status of this, because it has spent so much time, it has a recognised status as a veteran of war for Slovenia, lasting 3.28 per cent lower pension in total, amounting to about 4,000 and something else. I can show you documents like that whenever I want. And that's why I won't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u399	The National Assembly will now decide on the law. We're voting. We're voting on the law. 72 present, 48 for and 19 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes agenda item 6. We are moving on to the end of the 7th item of the agenda - dealing with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, also following a reduced procedure. We're in third reading. Nor did she warn us of possible inconsistencies, so that we can decide on the law. The National Assembly will decide on the law. We're voting. 67 present, 56 for and 7 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes point 7. We are at the end of the 8th item of the agenda - a proposal for a law amending the Road Transport Act, also in third reading, with the same warnings. Can we move on to a decision? The National Assembly will decide on the law. We're voting. 68 present, 62 for and 2 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. And the last of today's decisions, which concerns the 11th item of the agenda, is the first to consider the proposal for a law on the use of protocol facilities. We will decide that the proposal for a law on the use of protocol facilities at first reading is appropriate for further consideration. Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u400	I will support this law because I want the country to once order the use of protocol facilities, and this law would allow this, of course, with additions which could also be adopted in the procedure. That's why I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u401	We will decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law introduced in the first reading is appropriate for you to take the floor? [[...]] Please, colleague Kelemin, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u402	Thank you very much. I have not previously participated in the debate, but, nevertheless, in listening to the current arguments, I think it is appropriate for this topic to be handled in an appropriate manner. And all those comments that some Members have had, mainly on the coalition side, or those that you are just government Members, if these things are not arranged or are in the same manner in some European countries, and so on, you are also trying to make this statement in Slovenia to be so subtle or vague, is in fact an extremely funny and very unusual comparison. I cannot imagine that someone can make comparisons with some European countries in those solutions that are bad or that are not at all bad. We can't afford that. This does not mean that, if a country is European, some things are not well-managed or even out-of-ordered, so that we can have these things out-of-ordered as well. What you have been saying is actually unworthy that Members of such a comparison work with some other countries in such areas. And I would suggest, in view of the debate that has been shown to you, that it is also obvious to you as a thorn in the fifth issue, that further consideration of this law, second and third reading, these things will be completed, cleaned, and that we will have a law that will be clear and that will also tell our citizens what is going on with protocol facilities in Slovenia. I think they have that right because that's what they're paying for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-10-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u403	We decide on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 71 in attendance, 24 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that this proposal has not been adopted. This concludes this point as well as today's decisions. The legislative procedure is terminated at point 11. I hereby adjourn the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 11:00. Thank you for your patience and cooperation. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the National Assembly will continue its meeting. Good night.
