ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u1	There are not many of us in the Chamber; I suppose that the parliamentary groups have not yet completed their preparations for the beginning of the meeting. For this reason, I would be glad to announce that the time is 14/01 and that the work in the national assembly is starting in the central grand hall. We're going to start the 27th session, this is the June session of the National Assembly. First, I will inform you which of my colleagues or colleagues cannot attend the meetings due to other obligations, and then we will move on to the adoption of the agenda, which will require the presence of colleagues and colleagues. That's why I'm asking them to come to the hall. So I'll wait a minute before I start. I also ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to point out that it is 2 p.m. and that we will start the meeting. Once again, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby and their offices to the hall. The time is 14.03, the National Assembly will start work, we will adopt the agenda at 3 p.m. and we will switch to 1 p.m. questions from Members and Members; the Prime Minister will answer the first four and then his ministers and ministers. Please ask everyone who is in the Chamber to see if the ballots are inserted in such a way that you can vote so that there will then be no complaint in the decisions that the voting apparatus does not work. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I will inform you of which colleagues and colleagues, due to other obligations, cannot participate today in the meeting. These are colleagues: Battelli, Horvat, Yuri, Kangler, Partlich, Petan, Peterle, mag. Excess, Comrade Zammernik and to begin the meeting of Comrade Kopushar. I am therefore opening the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which I convened under Rule 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I invited, as it were, the Prime Minister or the competent ministers and ministers, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the representative of the Judicial Council to the 17th item of the agenda [[This will be your turn on Thursday.]] . I welcome all those present today, including those who will join us in the following! We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure, which was received by reference to 6 June this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. However, I inform you that I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda within the time limit. So I suggest to the assembly that we set the agenda for today's meeting, as you received by reference. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. We vote on the agenda of the June 27th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're in the middle of a vote. 50 present, 45 for and no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that the agenda for the 27th meeting of the assembly has been set. You also have the time course of the session, from today to Thursday. It is coordinated with the College among the leaders of the Group of Members, so I do not expect any questions to be raised in this regard. At 3 p.m., we will, as usual, move to the 1st item of the agenda, which is on questions from Members and Members. The Prime Minister will answer the first four and the ministers and ministers will answer the remaining questions. I'm asking for punctuality. We'll resume work at 3 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Please take your seats, including all guests in the grand debate room of the National Assembly. We will move on to the 1st item of the agenda, that is to the questions of Members and Members. I also welcome the Prime Minister, Mag. Robbery. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. First, if I am allowed, after repeated criticisms at the expense of the government that it does not answer the written and oral question, let me say this time that the government has eliminated some delays, that it has the duty to answer six more written questions that have not been answered within the deadline of business and four oral questions. Well, this delay is smaller than it has been so far, I hope we can completely eliminate it. Today we will hear oral questions from Members and Members. On the first four, as it is said, will be answered by the Prime Minister mag. Robbery. First, the oral question will be mag. Robo, Prime Minister, was stopped by a colleague Janez Janša. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Director of the Government Anti-Corruption Office designated the largest government party on the day before. Among other things, the director of the government office said: "It is our opinion that the long-standing political rule of one party, in connection with the economy and some lobbying" and so on, "has led to a state which is extremely difficult to regulate. The things that are happening now are on the verge of legal. The police and the D.A. are either completely ineffective, or they're not starting to fight unless they're forced by the public." As an opposition, we have been alerting one political party to this problem for a long time. A similar warning has now come directly from government circles themselves, which means that at least some in government administration are clearly beginning to realize this problem. The Prime Minister’s reaction to the government’s reconstruction days ago may also be counted or understood in this direction. For this reason, I would first point out that the government is responsible for the situation throughout the country, that it is the government of the Republic of Slovenia and not the government of four coalition parties. Then I'd ask the Prime Minister: What will be the reconstruction of the government, at least indirectly predicted? Has the government addressed the assessment of the work of individual ministries and accepted performance assessments or is it simply a political basis based on coalition arrangements? When are you going to propose to the National Assembly this reconstruction of the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Please, Prime Minister Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you so much for asking. As far as the reconstruction of the government is concerned, I have been talking about reviewing all government programmes, and that is what we are doing. As Prime Minister, I am responsible for the effective work of the government, for the effective work of all ministries, and of course I intend to ensure that. In this context, interviews with all ministers, ministries, are also ongoing in these days. The essence of the review and assessment of the work of individual ministries is the work carried out. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up a programme, the programme has also set up a coalition and we are determined to implement this programme. This programme consists of two parts. In the first part, it is a programme starting point, it is some very important programme content that we will achieve and reach across different areas, from reform of the state administration, if you want, health reform to effective economic policy related to wage policy, the stability of public finances and what is extremely important and what I have already highlighted is legislation and regulations related to the European Union. In this context, all ministers, all ministries will be given precise tasks and commitments on the basis of which this programme will be carried out as we intended. If, on the basis of an evaluation of the review of the work and on the basis of interviews, it is assessed that it is not possible to carry out the tasks assigned to it at each ministry, I will also propose appropriate human resources solutions, in accordance with the powers I have, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. And that was the essence of what I was saying and what we're going to do. These interviews will be completed by the end of June and, of course, appropriate measures will also be taken. As regards the first part of your discussion, this assessment we are talking about could, of course, be made on the basis of concrete projects, on the basis of concrete positions and concrete contentious issues. In this regard, of course, interviews have also been held, and I hope that we will also get these concrete projects on which we are talking. However, some indicators that speak of emerging corruption, even if you want the crime represented by some institutions, do not speak in favour of what has been said. For example, you can look at the European Bank's special report on reconstruction and development, which specifically mentions Slovenia and mentions, among other things, corruption, which specifically mentions crime. This is the European Bank's assessment of the reconstruction and development of Slovenia's progress in this area. If you look at this assessment, then you will see that in many of these areas, including finance, infrastructure, taxes, regulation and the quality of the justice system, Slovenia has taken a step forward and is essential for many of these indicators in front of other candidates for entry. Of course, that doesn't mean it's not a problem. In this context, some programmes have been prepared, including the anti-corruption law, which we have specifically discussed at the last government meeting and have also accepted the commitment that in fourteen days, regardless of what is now, you can read in the media sent to the National Assembly today, with further discussions and a concrete programme for the National Assembly. The Ministry of the Interior, as you probably saw, along with the Ministry of Justice, I think just a week ago, presented a special programme or strategy to combat economic crime, with a precise plan of action for what needs to be done. And later, both ministers can speak specifically on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you, Prime Minister. Complementary question, colleague Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u7	Well, with regard to this latter, and given the agreement expressed, we somehow expect that this law will also propose some of what would be the key reason for this situation presented by the director of the government office when he said: "It is our opinion that the long-standing political rule of one party, in connection with the economy and some lobby, has led to a state which is extremely difficult to regulate." But I doubt, of course, that those who are the generator of such a situation will themselves propose measures to improve; this is not usually the case. We would also expect that, when it comes to such important matters, somehow the government speaks one language, but not that the situation of two government representatives is being measured in a diametrically different way. With regard to reconstruction, I would point out that this government was formally elected a few months ago, or six months ago, after most of these ministers had already done half the mandate, that a certain assessment had probably been made at the time, and that it was also most appropriate to carry out such reconstruction. None of this has practically happened, only a few changes have been made in the government. And, I don't know if the members and members of the government in the first half of the term have shown themselves very much, then I don't see the reason for the assessment that they've ruined everything in a few months; this seems kind of illogical to me in your response, unless this projected reconstruction is flying to those few individuals who came into this government a few months ago. However, from these accompanying information coming from government coulaires, something such as this could not be completed. So I repeat the question: Does this projected reconstruction refer to an old part of the government or to some individuals who came to the government last December?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u9	Of course, first of all, there is a difference in the assessment of the situation. It is perfectly understandable that you evaluate the situation as negative as it is, and that you are, of course, using the statements given in this case. Of course, I expect these statements, which have been given, to be supported by concrete cases. We can talk about specific cases further, especially in the part where the government, if the government was responsible for this, did not do what or should have done, did not, or might have been directly involved in any of these cases. We can list a number of cases where we have undoubtedly actively engaged ourselves and also cases where the Anti-Corruption Office has received direct, explicit tasks on the basis of which it was obliged to report, prepare reports and inform the relevant authorities accordingly. He also did so in some cases, and I hope that he will also be in those for whom he has not yet done so. So we're definitely going to look at what's concrete in this case. As I said about the government, as Prime Minister, it is crucial that all the projects are implemented. And only in this light do I monitor the efficiency of the work of individual ministries. The projects are set up and the projects will be implemented and, of course, this and, in this case, my responsibility will be, of course, if these projects are not eventually implemented, and this is intended for the full verification of all programmes and the work of individual ministries.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Next question will be asked by your colleague Diaca. You have the floor, Comrade Diaca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u11	Yes, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! Honourable Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! On 23 October 2001, my fellow Member first and first expressed doubts about the eligibility to purchase any new aircraft in a given public financial situation. No one has taken this issue too seriously, but it will now be slow for two years now, which we have been dealing with and the credibility of the government has already been firmly established. The aircraft is becoming a unit of measure, and economic theory is likely to use this case as a "case study", a school case of irrational behaviour. The last option to avoid listing all the events relating to the purchase of an aircraft is, if I understand correctly, to rent or borrow it. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: That's why I want to know: What was the result of this analysis? What has been the previous cost of purchasing this aircraft, including the hangar? Who's responsible? What are the projected revenues of any lease on the State budget? And of course - the legal basis for the potentials of the lease? However, the second question concerns the introduction of a property tax, which in the public eye raises huge speculation. I would like to point out that I am aware of the complexity of this issue, and I believe that, for historical reasons, we cannot align and copy models of the European Union countries. In Slovenia, in my opinion, we cannot talk about the link between living standards and the size of real estate, since these are the only ones who have been built, for the most part, who have not been able to solve their housing problems with the capacity of social housing, but with fairness and denial. This includes reminding us of the situation in force today, the problems faced by young families who are solving their first housing problems. And we should, through the Income Act, help more than we do now that 3% of the income is in effect. In our SMS we advocate a multi-annual income relief in solving the first housing problem according to the German model. We have been able to track the information that the real estate tax or tax base will only be based on the Law on the Mass Valuation of Real Estate, which is currently to be piloted in Cyprus, Ljubljana and Krška. [[...]] That's why I want to know: What concept will the government adopt in order to ensure social justice that this will not become a tax on the propriety and denial of individuals? And what kind of budgets will this revenue be? In fact, the revenue of the local community budget should be, and if so, or if this is also a start, the transition to a system of financing local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much, colleague Diaci. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you so much for asking. There has been quite a talk about this first topic in public. So, as for the plane, the plane, we said the government decided to rent the plane. At the Ministry of Finance, an analysis was carried out, which of the possible alternatives to aircraft use is most optimal in terms of savings, in terms of what public finances have. Thus the sale, the lease, and, of course, the lease were analysed. The analysis showed that the lease was the most rational option. Under this option, in the annual amount, the budget revenue is expected to be a little more than, I think, two million dollars. In the end, however, a specific lease will show how much this final sum is. The government therefore decided to continue to use a 17-year-old lear jet, a 17-year-old aircraft. If you made a very simple calculation, if you'd spent so many years renting this falcon plane, then you'd see how much withdrawal from this plane would be. It'd be bigger than the purchase value. But I don't think it'll be possible to rent a plane that long. The decision is this: the plane will be leased and we will use the old plane. And the savings from this title and the revenue will be given in this form. I can see that there are still substantiations here, but I will answer your question about the hangar first. The government gave up its investment in the Hangar case and took over the Aerodrome. So the government itself as an investor in this case will not perform. And that has to do with saving. And this is also seen in the balance of the budget that you will be considering, I think this week, in the National Assembly. As far as property taxation is concerned, the law is in inter-departmental coordination. With regard to it, several pilot projects and studies were needed on what this actually means in terms of revenue, and it follows that the real estate law is essentially based on the level of burden resulting from the compensation for the use of building land and the existing property tax. However, it will have and will have certain exceptions or potential to increase the burden in cases where there are walled-up building plots and untapped areas. What additional taxes and burdens these will be, will be determined in the debate itself, and an additional discussion will undoubtedly take place in this part. Prepared solutions also involve a transitional period, and what is of course important, the very rates of these taxes will be set from the lower limit up at the level of local communities and will be left to them to determine their policies at certain limits to be assumed, how much and to what extent they will go under the burden. However, these burdens will be gradual and will be gradually applied, probably from the beginning of 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u14	Comrade Diaca, are you satisfied with the answer and have no further questions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u15	Although I am not satisfied with the answer, I will not ask a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, it's your turn to ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question, Mr Prime Minister, is also related to the statements made last week by two very important officials, namely the Director of the Government's Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penko, and the Director of the Securities Market Agency, Dr Borak. What they have said has already been mentioned in part by colleague Janš and you have also partly responded to this. I will not ask you again to give us some international comparisons that the government has traditionally relied on when such a thing must be answered. More specifically, I would like to mention to you that what is now happening is not just a statement made by Mr Penko about the rule of one political party and the same political party, but also points to regulations that are deliberately changing in order to achieve certain objectives in order to make illegal action seem legal. I also drew attention to this at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, as we adopted a law on banking, which has exactly the same objectives among important objectives, to enable even stronger unhealthy, economically harmful links between banks and businesses, as they were in 2001. In his statement, Dr Borak also mentioned that links between administrations and supervisory councils are created from companies in hiding, in which each other's director does what he wants, connects with himself and literally destroys the assets he has at his disposal, adding, "sadly that such companies support banks". So I'm not asking you what comparisons are with other countries in transition, but: What will the government do? In part, you have already replied that he is preparing a strategy or a document. Mr President, such a document has already been adopted by the government in its previous composition in 1997, and this was a strategy to combat economic crime. Just last week, two former directors of the Crime Service, Mr Demšar and Mr Mohorko, and current collaborators Kramberger and Žagar performed the Radio Slovenia Studio at 5: 00 p.m., and they made it clear to everyone who wanted to hear this, that this strategy against economic crime was not realized in any of their work. Question: "Is it not a lack of a fundamental political will to address this problem once and for all, but not to seek comfort in international comparisons? To solve these problems here in Slovenia - Mr President, when?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u18	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much for your question. Well, one more time. I have certainly not said that economic crime and corruption are not a problem in Slovenia. What I have said is that we can look at comparative analyses, comparisons and find that despite the fact that the problem is relatively smaller than in many other countries, and I am not saying this because I would just answer you for the answer, but because I want to tell you that there have been many things done in Slovenia and that, and I also believe that there will be success in this area, and we are not satisfied with this and that we will therefore take the next steps and I assure you that both of the mentioned Penko and Mr Borak will be involved in the creation of this legislation. In these days it is being prepared and the government will invest on the basis of the experience we have, on the basis of the irregularities that they are also alerting, the amendment of the takeover law, the securities market law and also the part of the law that you often ask about and refer to investment funds. Anti-corruption law will also be introduced, probably in very similar form and as it was prepared at the Anti-Corruption Office, with all relevant ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior involved, and it is right to check the old strategy and prepare new ones.Exactly within this strategy, such legislation is such as improving cooperation between institutions, both preventive work and adequate professional skills of staff, if you want, and adequate financial resources. So these are very concrete projects that will be presented to the Slovenian public, and for which I believe they can give further results so that we can improve our opposition. If you look again, I am very sorry to make this comparison, this report by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the field of corruption, where the problem is estimated to be 3 to 0, then you see that in 2002, I can send you this report, and corruption was assessed by problem 1.1 in 2002 with a level of 0.2. So it is very difficult to say that nothing has been done in this area, that there is anarchy in this area. No, the problem is still, it is evident and needs to be resolved in areas where it is being created. And it is also a fact that economic crime is becoming increasingly sophisticated and, of course, requires new captures and new legal and systemic solutions. That is why we have institutions, and that is why these two gentlemen are also employed within the government and have every opportunity, every opportunity to come up with proposals to co-create these systemic conditions and to work together to solve the problems of economic crime and corruption. Finally, let me say that the government has adopted some important regulations in the area of reform of the state administration, and in this area we have also committed one of these rules to precisely this fight against corruption and the regulation of these matters, as regards public servants, and we are going through anti-corruption law within 14 days. So we recognize the problem and we will also solve it very specifically and also in this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The next question will be asked by Comrade Pucka, do you want an extra one? I looked at you, and you didn't raise your hands. Dr. Bajuk, please, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also mentioned, Mr President, the words of Dr Borak when he spoke, or of Mr Penk, when he spoke, "the rules that change on purpose in order to achieve certain objectives to make illegal activity look legal". I mentioned the banking law the government has proposed and a large coalition has adopted here. With this very purpose, we now also have a government proposal in the law on the implementation of the budget following a rapid procedure. Without clear system arrangements, he also wants to go into privatisation or private co-investment in public infrastructure of public economic services and institutions, which is one article of the law on the implementation of the budget. Why not prepare a system law like that for other countries? This is still being done today, and it's still being created, and that's what's still being created. And, Mr President, you have mentioned the strategy and your efforts in recent weeks in this area of government. Let me tell you that already in 2000, the Slovenian police criminal service found that new forms of economic crime are being repeated, which the strategy does not even foresee. Let me tell you that even in that radio programme last week, we have heard that the fluctuation of personnel in the criminal police has already reached the top critical limit in 1998 and is continuing and is now reaching almost 19%, although it is already harmful to the fluctuation that reaches 10% of the staff. Among the 130 criminals in Slovenia, only half of them have a low working experience of up to 5 years. In the Ljubljana area, criminals for economic crime in their kind do not have an employee of any highly educated employee. When this information was revealed on the TV show Tarča, Mr Bohinc responded to the media in the coming days with a message that Ljubljana's criminals would be given two-day courses. Mr President, are these serious answers to this question and I repeat: If he doesn't rule, who does? If not now, when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u22	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u23	I would like to reiterate that the government will come with these rules and laws that I have been talking about. I agree with you that in some areas, in some forms, and I have said this before, economic crime has received new ways and different ways of carrying out its activities, and therefore we must, of course, adapt the relevant legislation. Of course, I find it rather inappropriate that you mention a case at the ZIPR. I think you'll be able to discuss this, both tomorrow and tomorrow. And if in this particular case it is found that this could allow for any corruption, then I am confident that the Minister of Finance will agree to withdraw such a solution from the proposed solution. However, as I was aware, it is a matter of co-financing some very important projects in the field of health, so that some investments can be made more quickly. And I'm guessing this has nothing to do with corruption. However, if it does, we will, of course, find such a solution, and if you make an appropriate argument, withdraw from the ZIPR and, of course, explain the consequences of this in other areas, as regards public finances. As far as these two gentlemen are concerned, I said. You have every opportunity to participate in the rules and, of course, you will be able to invite these two gentlemen to the committees on which you will deal with the specific rules proposed by the Government, and you will be able to tell them how and in what way and who avoids concrete solutions. There will be concrete solutions on the table, anti-corruption law, and a very concrete discussion will take place, where and in what way. Also in the securities market law, in the case of acquisitions, as well as in the law on investment funds that have changed. In all these areas, you can invite them and they will cooperate. And I invited them myself to participate in the regulations, and I hope that they will contribute with their thinking to a better final version of both laws. As far as criminal education is concerned. This problem is also highlighted in this strategy. And this strategy pays particular attention to the education of criminals and, of course, their pre-qualifications and provides for additional resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. With the answers of the Prime Minister, I do not agree and I cannot agree. That is why I also propose that, as part of our Rules of Procedure, you put to the vote, when appropriate, the possibility of this national assembly discussing these answers, discussing in full, in some comprehensive approach - what has already been done, where we can really go. This National Assembly must play its part. I hope that the great coalition will also create this possibility that this National Assembly will be able to participate in Slovenia's once-in-a-lifetime entry into the road to preventing criminalities, not to speed them up constantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u26	The second paragraph of Article 266 provides that a Member shall have the procedural possibility to propose to the national assembly that a discussion be held on the response of the Prime Minister. I propose that, as we have done so far, we also decide on this proposal by our colleague Dr. Bajuk tomorrow at agenda item 1, in our decision-making this afternoon, in accordance with the rules of procedure without discussion. Now he has the word of his colleague Cyril Pucka, the last question to ask the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! In the procedures for obtaining funds on the basis of the 2002 agricultural policy measures, the so-called direct payments, the applicants submitted some 8000 complaints after receiving the decisions. According to me, none of these complaints have yet been resolved. I want to know: After more than six months, why have the complainants not yet received answers? At the same time, I want to know: Will only - this be done in such a way that decisions will be issued to them this year and that they will have little to forget about last year's complaints and entitlements to direct payments in last year's year? At the same time, I'm asked the question: Is not such a number of incorrect and poorly completed applications due to the poor work of the advisory service in the agricultural - forestry chamber? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u28	Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you so much for asking. Therefore, according to the data we have obtained from the Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Markets Agencies, the situation is that there have been fewer of these complaints, as mentioned above. In 2001, there were 1057 such complaints and the total status of the complaints resolved is 1025 for this year. However, there are 32 complaints pending or in the second stage of the resolution process. In 2002, there were no 8,000 complaints, according to these data available to me, but 1176. Of these, there are 530 complaints in the area of the agricultural environmental programme. 23 complaints have already been filed at the second stage of the Ministry of Agriculture and will be resolved in the coming months. As a result of what they have prepared at the Ministry, a solution is being prepared and they have had problems with the computer programme or are preparing new information technology on the basis of which all these issues should be addressed expeditiously.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have thus exhausted that part of item 1 of the agenda when questions are raised to the Prime Minister. Now 26 colleagues and colleagues will ask 37 questions to ministers and ministers according to my record. Fellow Maria Pozsonec will start with questions to the Minister for the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. That is, a glimpse of the fields tells us that we are just before the early harvest, which will be disastrous for farmers because of the drought. I want to know: How is it ensured that the damage is actually assessed and paid? How's the buyout? How much will they buy if they buy anything? Will the census take into account the opinion of the municipal commission, or will the 2001 farce be repeated when farmers were not granted real damage? And once again, I'm going to ask my already-increased question: Why is the profession not behind farmers and does not support them and seek alternative crops for a dry period or seek other permanent solutions? The next question I am referring to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. In a respectable magazine Health I read that water from the water pipeline in terms of genotoxicity is the worst quality in Lendava [[23.80%]] and in Murski Sobota [[22%]] . In comparison, this value in the village of Križ is 8% and in Slovenia Bistrica is 9 wholes and something else. The consequences of poor water quality are also reflected in the incidence of cancers that are greater in our areas. Despite these worrying facts, however, I am informed that there is no provision in the budget by 2006 for the construction of a water network in Pomurje. Please comment on this information, and what does it mean for our health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, colleague of the Possonians. Minister of Agriculture Mag. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. Otherwise, I can only answer a part of this question - i.e. the competent ministry for natural disasters or drought is the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy; it is also one that has the means envisaged to do so which is responsible to the Commissions. In short, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food can only warn, like colleague Pozsončeva, of the great problem of drought in Prekmurje and elsewhere in Slovenia. According to the first harvest data, where barley began harvesting days ago, it produced only 800 to 1,200 kilograms and last year it was on average 3.9 tonnes per hectare, this year between 0.8 and 1.2 tonnes per hectare. In short, the agreement is already under way to properly and correctly describe the damage and then propose an appropriate intervention law. However, this can be answered and said by several colleagues, Minister Kopač, who is responsible for this and who also has financial resources or is expected to receive them from the integral budget. On the issue of alternative cultures. Look, in the case of drought two years ago, if I'm not mistaken, it was said that there should be seeding of wheat that "goes out" suitable drought, and that people there should not sow corn. This year people were sowing wheat there and spring or winter drought came. So in this case, there are no other alternatives, except perhaps irrigation, of course. However, the recovery of both maize and wheat is not considered under any circumstances; irrigation is only considered for those cultures that are economically sustainable. So in this context, that's all I can answer. But the rest, I think a fellow Minister will have to add. In any case - to conclude - the problem of drought is not only in Prekmurje, but in much of Slovenia this year so large, especially in these winter cultures or autumn-spring cultures, that action will be indispensable.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u34	I see, colleague Pozsonchev, that you want a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you. I haven't heard anything about this: If there's anything you can buy, how will you buy it? And the other one. I believe that you will still have to propose some solutions in the agricultural field.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u36	Please, Minister Booth.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. As far as the market order for wheat is concerned, of course, our ministry is deeply responsible for this. The market order is adopted, is in force and is in line with the European Union. So, what the purchase price of wheat will be, the sellers will agree with the buyers, that is, they will set the price together by representatives of cooperatives and buyers, these are milling and processing plants. Of course, the country does not determine the price and has nothing to do with the price. We have a market order that applies until 2007 and it is clear that no one in the European Union, speaking of common agricultural policy, can do otherwise. We are talking about a common market order, an intervention price of 22 and a few tolars. I can hardly predict the redemption price, but I'm sure it'll be at least eight tolars higher, at my price, but this price is set by the market, we're setting an intervention on the market. At the same time, we wish that there is no intervention, because if there is intervention, it means that the economic situation on the market is extremely poor. However, intervention will, of course, be required from another point of view, I strongly agree, because of the natural disaster, and the state or our ministry is still responsible for the payment. Wheat falls within the scope of so-called crops, which receive a single payment per hectare, that is 57,000 tolars. They take it for each hectare of corn, for grains, for silage, for every grain, also for wheat, as well as for each meal and for each olive. Everyone in Slovenia receives this payment per hectare at this level. This is also what will be provided and, of course, will be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u38	The Minister of the Environment is not on the list of four ministers or ministers who apologized. They apologized: Minister Richtereva, Dr Gantar, Dr Rupel and Minister Presečnik, so we will address the issue in writing, colleague Possoncheva to the Minister for the Environment. My colleague Rupar will ask questions first to the Minister of Agriculture and then to the Minister of Labour. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I am waiting for Mr Booth's answer only because I asked the question of the Member, I think, two months ago, this is about the animal garden in Ljubljana and I would have asked for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u40	Master Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. I also sent a written apology for my absence for participating or for participating in the Council of Ministers in Brussels. The Council of Ministers takes place for this area at least once a month, and in June, it looks like it will be three times, so I am only now giving this answer. The Veterinary Administration within our Ministry has carried out a number of activities in relation to the event in the zoo in relation to your question of the Member State, specifically its competent Regional Office Ljubljana. On 11.3.2003, she submitted a report. On the basis of this report, a number of irregularities or violations of the animal and veterinary law have been identified. In particular, illegal use of firearms and killing of bears, wild pigs and buffalo has been found. Violations of the rules on trade in meat of animals shot have been found. Violations of the rules relating to the movement of live animals from the zoo have been found, in terms of the acquisition of new species of animals without the relevant documentation and the required mandatory quarantine. All the above offences were committed in secret, so that even most of the employees in the zoo, according to them, did not know about them. Due to irregularities identified, the veterinary administration has already acted in accordance with its powers. With regard to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Investigations are pending criminal charges, a motion has been made to the judge for offences involving the use of firearms, three more motions for offences will be made, and evidence-gathering investigations are still under way. [[...]] On the basis of this, we are also awaiting a criminal complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u42	Please, Comrade Rupar, you have the answer to a question that was raised at the 25th meeting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u43	I must say that I am totally dismayed by this information, but I also thank you and, of course, also ask for your help in setting things right in the zoo. I'd like to ask a further question: Whether the government or the Ministry of Agriculture thinks that Ljubljana’s administration or municipality of Ljubljana would somehow arbitrarily take away the status of the city’s, animal garden and put it under the auspices of the state or government in order to be an animal garden, I don’t know, owned by the state, i.e. all Slovenians. I am sure that it would be that then the situation would be completely different, that the competences of the Ministry of Agriculture would be completely different, not just to identify such horrors. And, of course, I would suggest, if this is not yet, that you think about it and suggest it as soon as possible. Because I trust agriculture much more than, I will say, I will not tell the mayors now or any other way, but the municipality of Ljubljana will certainly not have interference over the zoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Did we, Comrade Rupar, exhaust the questions you asked? Do you still have a question for the Minister of Labour? You want to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u45	The next question I am asking is not just a question for Minister Dimovski, but more for Mrs Richter, who unfortunately is not today. I knew that, but let me point out some irregularities regarding the only camp of internants at the Mauthausen-Ljubelj branch. In fact, every year a commemorative ceremony takes place there, even this year, and each year we face the same problem a week before this ceremony or this ceremony. In fact, no one wants to take the cost of maintaining this camp, which I think is a terrible shame, given that this is the only camp of World War II on Slovenian soil, and in spite of everything. From 1999 to 1999, we send from the congregation to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and to the Ministry of Culture of Appeal, but let them do something about the shame that can happen, but we are constantly getting negative answers when we are not competent, we do not have a legal basis, we do not have a financial basis. I would even advise Mr Dimovski that, for example, the advisor of the republic of the government who signs a case, and France, Znidaršič, would point out that this is not a sentence, I quote: "We hope that you will find an appropriate solution, because the event in the irregular space would not be a proud event to the congregation and not to the fighters." However, we know that since 1999, the monument has been declared a monument of state importance. I even said the first category because it is the only camp of this kind or the only camp, but the meaning of this is to say otherwise. In the case of Austria, which was the World War II ally of Hitler, this year set up an object worth €9 million, which is said to have invested 2 billion tolars in the preservation of this monument. However, Slovenia, which has been on the side, will say, against the occupying party, on the side of the allies, but does not invest a year and a year in any tolar in this facility which must remain. It must remain for the sake of those who are still coming after these fighters and interns. Of course, I strongly protest that this has not been settled since 1999. And please, I demand the following, or I ask: When will the decree on the proclamation of the Ljubljana National Monument complex be implemented? Next: When will the relationship between the Republic of Slovenia, which is the owner and, of course, the administrator or custodian of this monument, be determined when will this be signed with any controller? The Municipality of Tržič is not forced here as the first. And then there's: When will the project be designed to regulate the entire Ljubljana - Mauthausen Memorial Park complex, which will cover all issues of the regulation of this unique camp on Slovenian soil? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. This is a question you've been asking the Minister of Culture, who isn't. You insist that you get an answer to an oral question, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u47	I insist on an oral response. I think that Mr Dimovski might also be able to respond in part.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u48	If that's what he wants. Please. Please. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u49	We have answered this question both orally and, in part, in writing to the honourable Member. We have said that, in fact, despite the fact that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, that we are actually prepared to participate in the reconstruction, I could say, this camp, which of course had great meaning within World War II, and of course we could say that, even as the Ministry has done, we also participate. However, it has certainly been declared a monument and falls under the competence of the Ministry of Culture, so, I hope, together with them, we will try to find a solution that will, of course, allow this camp to be an example to other monuments as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Comrade Drobnic. Is Petty Officer in the hall? Absent. Then I can't give a word to my buddy Petty Officer. And I'm calling my buddy Horvath. Neither is Horvath's colleague. He apologized. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask the Minister of the Interior. I ask the Minister of the Interior and also all other ministers who rely heavily on the order of answers to come to the Chamber, because if one of the colleagues is not or does not wish to ask the question, then perhaps a minute before they intend. Please let the ministers come to the hall; this is their business obligation. Comrade Jelinčič, please, you have the opportunity to ask a question. And I'm calling the minister in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask the Minister of the Interior: Will he press charges against the former Constitutional Judge without a judicial examination, Mr Krivic, for representing the so-called deleted Slovenian public and probably even before a court? The Law on Judicial Procedure in Article 87, paragraph 3, states: "In the proceedings before the District, Higher and Supreme Court, only an attorney or other person who has carried out a legal examination may be authorised." Mr Krivic has not completed this examination and is thus unable to represent these people and, in fact, the gentleman is guilty of an offence or even more, in a criminal act, because the value of the individual application of these so-called deleted is around 300,000 euros, which is essentially more than 2 million, as referred to in the last paragraph of Article 95, when he says that "a lawyer may replace a lawyer or a lawyer, but only up to the value of 2 million tolars". I'm asking: What are they going to do with what Mr. Secretary will do? Whether he will quietly agree to the illegal and unconstitutional decision of the so-called Slovenian Constitutional Court, which, of course, is strongly supported by the United List of Social Democrats. Mr Krivic is neither a lawyer nor a lawyer, nor a lawyer or an ordinary lawyer without a judicial examination. I think it is a little too bad that we allow people in Slovenia who have been against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, who have been against ourselves, and some have even fought both the Republic of Slovenia or have fought in other parts of the former Yugoslavia, that these people will get more than all those honest people who have demanded and received Slovenian citizenship. In Slovenia, it seems that those who have been honest will be punished for their regularity, truthfulness and respect for laws. Something similar is not known in legal practice anywhere in the world. In the Italian judicial system, something similar was attempted shortly after the second war, but the case was closed. Now in the first part, I would ask the Minister to answer this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u52	Mr. Secretary of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. As regards Mr Krivica's relationship with the contracting authorities of his services, these are civil relations and are governed by them within the rules or in any way contractually agreed. The Ministry of the Interior has absolutely nothing to do with this. However, if this happens, there are reasons for prosecution, then I am sure that the law enforcement authorities are taking the appropriate action.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u54	Complementary question, colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u55	Mr Minister, if I understand you correctly, then you will start a criminal prosecution against Mr Krivic, because it is an enormous damage to which the Republic of Slovenia will suffer. If we're only talking about material damage, it's going to be about 2 billion euros! If we are talking about the moral damage suffered by the Republic of Slovenia in the world, this cannot be measured. And if we look at the damage and what moral blemish the honest citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will get, I don't know what we're going to do. Should the rest of the Slovenians, who have been paying 12 years of taxes that we went to work that we did for this country, be punished? Can we then expect, Mr Minister, to begin collecting signatures on the return of Slovenian citizenship? For if there will be 18,000 and some people, illegals who have speculatively rejected Slovenian citizenship and are now trying to get it back because of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, if these people get citizenship, then these people are not equal to me and most honest Slovenians. Then we who are at a disadvantage will decide and return to our citizenship. Then I don't know what you're going to do - whether you're going to rule this 18,000, take with you colleagues from the United List who confirm and support these people, and then I don't know what's going to happen. Very unfair behavior, and I hope you can get out of this. It's not hard to get out of this, it's not hard, but the first is to put a constitutional court where it belongs, and to set up those fences that the Constitutional Court should have respected long ago, not that gentlemen are thinking only about expanding downtown, they're building new bathrooms. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u56	Comrade Jelinczych!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u57	I don't know what kind of resting room and the whole floor, while the Ministry of Culture will have to fly out of that building. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u58	Even when we mention institutions, we can be respectful, just as we demand our own. Please, Mr. Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u59	I would like to add to my answer just by saying that your story of the problem has nothing but nothing to do with the United List. Secondly, you understood me correctly if you understood me about the initiation of the criminal procedure in such a way as to be judged by the police as a law enforcement authority. I'm not one to judge whether or not signs of a crime have been committed. I am sure that if such an assessment is made, as is the case with all other citizens, the police will do the right thing. In this regard, the Minister does not give the police direction because this would mean political involvement in the work of the police. As far as the problem is concerned, I would say only this: it is the duty of the Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of a constitutional decision, to draw up a law - this is known. However, it is an additional duty to issue supplementary decisions. The Ministry is preparing this law. When the law is ripe for coordination, for procedures, we will also present it publicly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. My grandson has two questions. Mr Minister of Transport is justifiably absent, I expect you to ask the Minister of the Environment a question. Please, my colleague, the Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I have already described in very detail the issue in writing, which I am referring to both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment. And I will repeat it, and I hope that the reason for the absence of Minister Presecnik is not in some of the government's staff exchanges. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State can't answer me, but I'd like to repeat the problem. The main question was addressed to Minister Preseknik and indirectly concerns Minister Kopač. This is a problem of the Varčica quarry in the Radovljica municipality. With parts on the mountain highway, the dynamics or exploitation of resources from this quarry have increased significantly. The problem is 30 years old. I know that so far the citizens of this area have tolerated this. The construction of the mountain foot of the highway significantly increased this problem. Therefore, citizens in this area point out that this restoration or exploitation of this quarry began without previously being reconstructed by all of us the famous old road from Kraje to Radovljica. This road has some narrow passages, banks are not properly fortified, the problem of drainage is not solved, asphalt coating is destroyed, some implants appear and so on. When daily, according to the data of the road company, 200 heavy trucks, including 50 tonnes, are transported across this road, according to the data of the locals and up to 300, regardless of evening or morning hours, even on Saturdays and Sundays, people rightly fear that after the completion of the highway, they will be destroyed by a highway. In view of the experience in the Gorenje region, where motorways work in an impoverished way, without passports and so on, we see in some other areas that monuments are being built, according to local words, but citizens of this area do not want to be second-rate citizens, because they cannot take responsibility for the wrong planning of the highway. I therefore believe that it is necessary to reconstruct the existing road for the purposes of transport as it is now. I would like to ask the Minister of Transport the question: When this reconstruction will be such that the landscapes of these areas will be able to carry themselves along these roads and will not be in fear of their own safety and safety, for there is also a primary school in the immediate vicinity. However, I would like to ask the Minister of the Environment an indirect question: What's going to happen to this quarry? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u62	I'm sorry. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u63	When will the timetable for the exploitation or closure of this quarry be? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u64	Please, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. This quarry has been authorised to operate since 1982. When the Mining Act was passed, transitional provisions stated that all then legally operating quarryes could continue with their own or could obtain a new concession under the Mining Act. In the stage of the preparation of the regulation, with which the concession was then granted, the Radovljica municipality was invited to give its opinion. We called her on March 28, 2000. She did not provide her opinion, nor did she transmit it subsequently, when she was re-invitated, to be identified. It was not sent until 14 November 2000, when we adopted this Regulation and allowed it to continue with the adoption of the concession act. The concession contract was then also signed on 11 January 2002, and this concession contract was concluded for a period of 20 years. The stock of mineral raw materials in the quarry according to our data is sufficient at least for the duration of mining law, that is to say until 2021. Maybe for later. But since you were actually asking about when this excessive noise or overburden due to the construction of the highway on the Naklo section - Subcamp, let me say that this section is expected to be completed in September this year and that we all hope that after this date of some excessive noise there will be no more, but it will take place as long as this is a long year, with normal dynamics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u66	Please, my grandson.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary Copacz. Otherwise, he answered me in the end what I wanted to hear from Mr President, but this last answer, I think it's incorrect, given that the construction of the highway's part will continue and the problem will only move on. Now the problem is from the quarry to Subtubor or to Podbrzezi, and then it will move over Radovljica as a city. The construction of the highway will continue next year, at least until the end of the Viaduct of Peracica. Therefore, of course, I understand that you do not know the matter because you are not responsible for these matters. As far as the quarry is concerned, this quarry is already visible from the moon, so to speak. If our fellow Americans, now that we're in NATO together, asked if they could send us a picture of Mars when the two probes went up, you'd probably have seen it from Mars. This is the degradation of the bibian environment of the inhabitants of the area and of the whole region as such. I therefore appeal to the Minister for the Environment to reach an agreement here with the road company that exploits these natural resources to end this exploitation and, above all, to stop the degradation of the living environment. As for the traffic problem itself, I have to mention once again that there is nothing to be done here, and I hope for a written answer, given that the Minister is absent. Locals are justifiably threatening to block, which means that it will not only be a blocked construction site, but also traffic on the highway itself, which we know is the most burdened on weekends and now on the summer season. As a country, I don't think we can afford it at the height of the season. As for the ignorance of the Radovljica Congregation, I fully believe that it is true that they did not reply because I know the municipal structures. Unfortunately, the mayor is also a member of the ruling party, as is the ruling majority in this House. I hope that as a member you can also appeal to the mayor that you too [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u69	as a subordinate within the party answers or sends certain answers because the locals cannot be the hostages of a policy. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u70	Would you like to give an additional answer, Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much. As for the dynamics of building a burning highway, I may not be the most competent one, but this is Comrade Presečnik. As for the exploitation of mineral raw materials in this or in any other legal quarry, I must say that quarrying is not open to the entertainment of road companies or anyone else who would like to exploit it, but because of some broader social needs. Each installation of a quarry into a space requires a preliminary assessment of whether it is not possible to obtain mineral raw materials in a more appropriate way and whether this mineral raw material is in fact needed in that environment. This regime was still in the former Yugoslavia, and so is the regime today. So I have to reject the suggestion that someone wanted with their ignorance to enable the operation of a quarry that no one really needs. That's not true. This quarry is needed. Our standard, after all, also the construction of motorways and all other infrastructure facilities requires certain interventions into the environment. It also includes sometimes some kind of quarry.We have to face it in today's civilisation. Therefore, I believe that there is nothing wrong with the operation of the quarry, but it is certainly the responsibility of the manager and must be his interest to agree with the local environment on how to get the operation of such a facility as easily as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik will ask a question to Minister Tei Petrin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Prof. Tei Petrinov, Head of Economics: When will the government put the law on the participation of employees in business profits into the procedure? A bad year ago, in the debate in the National Assembly, when we discussed the question, if you remember, of the Elan Prize, I suggested that Slovenia urgently needed a law that would allow employees to participate in the profits. Mrs Petrinova then responded positively to this proposal. What happened in this area at that time? What encouraged me to ask this question today. As an observer in the European Parliament, I attended a meeting of the European Parliament ten days ago, which adopted a resolution of the European Parliament on the promotion of the participation of employees in the profits of companies. This document is not fully binding in its entirety and is of suspense power. And since this document particularly emphasises the need to pay particular attention to candidate countries where the participation of employees in profit is not yet sufficiently developed and where the latter legislation is still lacking in implementation, or where this document points out that the participation of employees in the Eastern and Central European countries is limited, I believe that this document can also be a positive incentive for the government to follow the European concept called the European social model. This document states that there is a greater dispersion of ownership to further help stabilise the social structure, for it distributes wealth in a fairer way. Participation of employees in profits helps to preserve the old and create new jobs, as it allows costs to be better adjusted to the economic situation. This also stabilises employment and improves the structure to facilitate access to and acquisition of external capital, and this also increases the ability and willingness to invest. Madam Minister, will you take this recommendation and this resolution into account when you do and if you prepare the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u74	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Podobnik, thank you for the question. We took this commitment very seriously. We have formed a working group that is already preparing draft laws and we have drawn up in our work plan to put this law into government procedure in the last three months, that is to say in autumn. Thus, we also monitor what is happening in this area on the basis of the materials we have at our disposal from the European Union. I think that work is going on normally and that it will also be completed according to the planned deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u76	Please, Comrade Podobnik, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you, President. Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. In the last quarter of this year we can expect the law, but it would be very up to date, because in this resolution there are also some other thoughts that are very, I would say, relevant for here and now. It stresses the need to be aware of the potential risks faced by workers and trade unions in particular with regard to the inadequacy of simultaneous wage policy negotiations and the participation of employees in profits. The abolition of the Eastern negotiations will help to reduce trade union concerns that the participation of employees in profits is only a compensation for higher wages. Participation of employees in profit is also a matter of collective bargaining and there may be some dangers that are currently being negotiated in these days and months. The first is the double risk of employees in the event of a company’s bankruptcy, loss of employment and loss of stock value if they have them in their company. The second risk is organisational problems with tax and social legislation in the case of international acquisitions. This is very recent in the case of Slovenia. The third risk is the establishment of a system of employee participation in small and medium-sized enterprises. When we have recently focused so much political energy on negotiating with the unions, or perhaps we have forgotten yet another way to go along the path that the government has taken to take, in order to cross the path it is called, to encourage the participation of employees in the profits of companies. Madam Minister, if possible, come into the procedure with this law earlier than in the last trimester.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you'd like to add your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We'll do our best and we'll do it by the end of September.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u80	My friend Tanko has two questions. Comrade Tanko, two questions for the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your word. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, I must say that I am pleased that Minister Booth has not joined this selective obstruction of the government on the point of question. The first question concerns the use of pre-accession funds. This year, the European Commissioner for Agriculture, Franz Fischer, visited us. In his statement to the media, he pointed out that Slovenia was using extremely few pre-accession funds from the Sapard programme. This is intended for future members in the restructuring of rural areas as well as the processing industry. It is clear that these resources under the Sapard programme are not used for approved purposes in the planned and approved quotas. According to the information I have, not even the funds for 2001 have been fully exhausted and there have been no calls for proposals for 2002 and 2003. Since it is also necessary to draw on Sapard's resources to provide funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, this withdrawal of calls is likely also due to the failure of the government or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition to provide the necessary partner funds in the budget. Next year we will become a member of the European Union, which probably means that this programme will close. I wonder why the two-year delay in drawing funds from the Sapard programme has arisen, and will it be possible to draw on these funds as a result of the delay? What measures are envisaged to obtain and use these funds for those four planned purposes? I also wonder if we have enough programmes to draw on these funds. Another question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u83	It shall apply to the implementation of the rules on veterinary conditions for the production and placing on the market of foodstuffs of animal origin. This Regulation shall enter into force on 30.11.2002. Part of this Regulation concerns the use of drinking water in agricultural establishments. In particular, milk production facilities are large water consumers and their use is at least two very problematic. When a health inspection prohibits the use of uncooked water for consumption as a rule due to fecal pollution, in this case there is a possibility that all the necessary water used in the production process may not be cooked in the establishments despite the decision of the health inspectorate on compulsory water boiling. This is, for example, water for cleaning, washing swimming pools and so on. In the second case, however, in cases where there is no systematic control of coverage and use of drinking water due to low coverage, a small number of connections are not provided. However, the transitional provisions of this Regulation provide that existing installations which, despite the failure to comply with the conditions laid down in this Regulation, may continue to operate but have to submit applications to the VURS by 16.12. if they wish to register as an establishment fulfilling all the conditions of this Regulation or if they wish to register an establishment as a smaller capacity facility. They also had to submit an application for extension by that date if the installation of the conditions laid down in this Regulation did not comply, the VURS could set a new date but not more than 31.3.2003. And almost three months have passed since that deadline. I am interested in the following: in what way and how often is the use of drinking water controlled in establishments in cases where users are subject to a cooking measure? How often does the control process take place in establishments with their own coverage? Is the level of protection of consumers, food users from these establishments sufficient? I would like to know what is the situation in establishments with regard to the fulfilment of the conditions laid down in this Regulation or whether any decisions on the temporary or permanent closure of establishments have already been issued for failure to comply with the conditions or failure to settle matters under transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u84	Comrade Tanko, before the Minister answers you, you know that, unlike Members, the government cannot and must not obstruct or obstruct the work of the National Assembly. When ministers and ministers are responsible, they also regularly respond. But if not, I'll warn the minister if he's not excused that he should do it. Please, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much to Mr Jožet Tank for the questions. As far as the first one is concerned, indeed Commissioner Fischer, who was here to visit, and we are meeting with him on a weekly basis in the Council of Ministers, also talking about drawing on the Sapard programme. He was very positive about the progress made by Slovenia among all agricultural candidates. As far as the Sapard question is concerned, we have so far made two calls, the 2000 invitation to tender, for 2001. As far as drawing is concerned, we are leading among the ten acceding countries. Unfortunately, the money allocated to Slovenia is relatively small or about four times smaller than what the Commissioner said wrong. As far as tenders are concerned, the matter is next. You know that we have five measures so far that we have called four to continue to sign a small one percent from this year - technical assistance. The basic measure, or two major measures, is an investment in the agricultural economy. There, the share of the funds used is at a minimum and two thirds of the funds are still available. In the case of measures - investments in the food industry we have paid 19 investments so far and the money will no longer be available. In economic diversification, there is something similar, and in investment in local infrastructure, all the money is spent in full. Since we have introduced European measures or European conditions for investment in agriculture, we have changed our agreement with the European Union, some criteria, and made them much easier or more suitable for Slovenian countries. We have reduced the age limit for farmers, added new investment measures on milk and meat. We have no longer taken into account or will no longer take into account the associated investments. And there are several other proposed changes. These changes are, of course, coordinated with the European Union. On 25 June this month, in Brussels, the "old committee" or the "rural committee" is expected to adopt this amendment to the rural development programme. On this basis, the government will adopt a new regulation, the amended regulation with new conditions, and, according to our estimates, the first or second week of July will issue an invitation to tender for the years 2002 and 2003, when we can still spend Sapard's resources. This call will also be accompanied by an unused portion of the money for 2001. The whole invitation to tender will be distributed until the entry into the European Union, i.e. on 1 May 2003. However, it is possible to make use of the funds after three years of receipt of the contract. We expect that for investment measures of food - industry, mainly because of dairy and meat establishments, investment measures - economic diversification, these are rural trades and complementary activities of tourism, and investment measures - local infrastructure, these are village water lines, thematic routes and so on, we do not expect absolutely any problems here and we believe that money will be too little sooner than too much. People are prepared with projects and we estimate that for farm investments with new, substantially facilitated conditions for applications will be significantly higher. We will then make an assessment at the end of 2003, and if we find that there is still some money left there, in this case, in agreement with the European Union, we will devote unused money to measures where demand is significantly higher. Thus, we will do our utmost to ensure that Sapard's funds are fully used, that is, distributed until the date of entry into the European Union, and that it may then be used up to a period of three years from the signing of the Treaties. I would also say that the funding for co-financing by the State of Slovenia is not a problem because the State of Slovenia must provide one third of these funds. These funds are provided in the budget. The problem with farm investments was mainly that Slovenian farms were not able to meet all European criteria. We have now slightly reduced these, but not in hygiene criteria, they are exactly the same, but in terms of size of farms and so on. This is, of course, information that speaks of the need to do much more in restructuring in Slovenia in order to increase farms. And perhaps just a request, if I may answer the second question in writing, or if you wish to attend the next meeting orally, because I had not received the question in writing before, so I could not prepare myself for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u86	Your request, if I understand correctly, my colleague Tanko will comply. Complementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u87	This issue of pre-accession aid is also important because, in some cases, the use of later aid will also take place in a similar way. In these negotiations with the European Union, the negotiating group has been extremely successful and precisely because we are already late in the use of relatively small pre-accession funds, it can happen that we will also have difficulties in using much more resources later on in the years to come. The problem is also, in my opinion, that I do not think that there is adequate agreement on this issue at the level of the government. This first measure, this year, when refunds were cut for certain areas, shows that the government will also decide on certain types of savings in this area. This year's outage for these aids, for environmental programmes, was about one billion tolars. In particular, this is why I fear that the Slovenian countryside and all those who work and live there may not have prepared sufficient programmes to make good use of these resources. For this very reason, I think this issue of drawing on these pre-accession assistance is also extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u88	Please, Master Booth, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The Member's concern is, of course, quite justified at least in that part of the investment in the farm. That is why we talk intensively and train counselors in the Chamber to offer farmers the best possible support in preparing programmes [[programmes are relatively difficult]] . As far as the food industry is concerned, there are no problems here, as you know, for those who go into some serious complementary activities, and especially local infrastructure programmes. I am also not afraid to use resources in the context of the regular aid to the rural development package - I am talking about safeguards measures or the guarantee fund for which EUR 250 million is earmarked for the period 2004-2006. These measures mainly concern support measures for restricted areas, support measures for agri-environment programmes and measures for new so-called early retirement measures. Thus, we have a systemic approach here, which means that farmers make an application, and that these first payments are eligible for 86%, investors in the agri-environment programme so far 20%, but we want to raise the total number to about 45 to 50% due to environmental orientation. It is a desire for us to move from classical agriculture to a more environmentally friendly one in Slovenia, and there are also our market opportunities, so that we will not keep dealing with the market surpluses of conventional products, but that we will also be able to talk about some more decent prices of environmentally friendly products in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My colleague Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister of Justice! Before your election, Members, you promised us that you would save the backlogs within four years. Your promise was your program and thus the government's program. And what can we figure out a year before the end of the term? The backlogs aren't getting any smaller, they're even growing. As a result, the country is on the verge of legal certainty and citizens are very, very dissatisfied. According to recent public opinion surveys, the judiciary is an institution we least trust with. It's those everyday things where citizens can't get to their rights. And if they reach the right, they can't execute it or they can't subscribe to the land book. That old saying, "Rights are set aside, right is denied" is still valid. The recent resignation of the President of the Ljubljana District Court points to the great ignorance of the Supreme Court of Justice and of the executive branch, because you, as Minister and neither the President of the Supreme Court, have responded to its programme to remedy the backlogs until it has actually resigned. The resolution of the problem in this court is crucial to improving the state of legal certainty in the country. The information that if you file a lawsuit in this court today and no one can tell when they're going to solve it, it's actually scary. But when someone only takes her into their own hands, they're waiting for the judge's ruling on average for 33 months. And let this be a trial within a reasonable time period, which we are also reminded of in the European Union?Oh, my God! An interesting statement by the Deputy Ombudsman is that in the delays they have dealt with - more and more - they have also discovered a subjective factor in the functioning of judges as a result. Whether it's ignorance, whether it's a crime, whether it's corruption in court, we should think about it in particular. The situation in the judiciary is therefore critical and can no longer be excused by the frustratement of the data. The citizens' trust in the judiciary has fallen below the limit. It is true that the judiciary is an independent and independent branch of power, and if we want to maintain legal certainty and democracy, no one can interfere with it from the outside. However, there is a need for tighter supervision of society and for increased accountability. Without the confidence of citizens in the judiciary, in its reputation and authority, there is no rule of law. But we've been waiting too long for this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Just one question: Why is the situation in the field of judicial backlog not improving and what will your ministry do to improve the current unsustainable situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u93	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would first like to point out that the situation in the judiciary is improving. To this end, I would first like to present a few data, but later to present measures that we have been implementing for a long time in specific areas and which, in my opinion, can contribute to the acceleration of this positive trend. If we look at the statistics for last year. There's something positive about the data, something worse, and I'm going to point out each other, and here I'm rejecting the obvious haircut. This is also mentioned for the public, but unfortunately negative data are over-emphasized, but they are often overlooked. In all cases, the number has indeed increased by 6.5% in the past year, mainly on the basis of the actual presentation of enforcement cases, from 2001 onwards with a guidance I have issued, which, of course, considers enforcement cases to be solved only after the execution has actually been carried out. So here we got a clearer picture, which makes it a little bit worse. In this case, when looking at all cases, the higher courts had 8.8% less outstanding cases, a 10.8% circular case, and the marginals had that increase, which I was talking about, an administrative increase of 9.7 less, a higher labour and social increase of 22.5% less, and a labour and social increase of 17.4% less than all cases. District courts have also reduced the number of outstanding cases by 11.9%, i.e. more than one tenth in more important cases. And other courts for more. In all courts, in more important cases, it is considered that the number of outstanding cases decreased by 11.3% in the previous year. Two more types of data in a hurry. In the longer term, the number of outstanding cases decreased from 210 000 to 143 000 in major cases, from 1998 to the end of last year, which is a significant reduction. On the other hand, if we look at backlogs in court, you know that the category introduced in 2000 is, if we look at, for example, district courts, at that time the number of cases considered to be a backlog has decreased by 24% after two years, in the first year, according to the state of 2001, by 15.33%, or in the last year, and if we look at the two-year situation for a quarter so. These are data showing positive trends. This is now mainly about these positive trends being maintained. It will not be easy, but I think that there are rather good conditions for this, I would like to draw attention to the analysis of the reasons for the backlogs and the measures envisaged. Most of these measures, which go in a different direction, have been implemented. This is particularly the case with legislative measures. Here I give two examples: in particular enforcement, we have dealt with this with the amendment of the law on enforcement and insurance, adopted, established towards the end of last year, which will undoubtedly begin to produce results. At the same time, we analyse the relevance of the network of executives, with additional executioners, where necessary, we also want to make implementation ongoing. In the area of the land book, which still has a problem with the number of pending cases, the number of outstanding cases decreased by 2% for the first time in the last year and the information of the land book, which is completed by 71%, will contribute significantly to greater efficiency and we can also expect better trends here. Of course, there are other legislative and organisational measures, which unfortunately, I cannot mention at this time due to the end of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u94	Would you like to ask a further question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. All together, we can probably want these measures to work and deliver results. However, if you would allow me to ask you another question: What can you specifically promise or tell the new president or president of the Ljubljana District Court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u96	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you for that supplementary question. I couldn't touch this problem before. Of course, the Court of Ljubljana, as actually the largest district court in the country with large backlogs, needs a special programme for the resolution of backlogs. Following the President's decision to resign, a meeting was held between all those responsible from the judiciary and the Ministry, as well as a meeting with the Prime Minister. It follows from these meetings that, while it is not possible to fully implement all the planned actions under the President's programme, measures going in different directions can provide practical implementation in all areas to the extent possible. Thus, it is possible to provide resources for the continuation of the Hercules project, for all other needs arising from, say, an additional scope of work, from assistance from other courts, the Supreme Court shall assess at the same time or have previously approved some additional employment of the judicial staff. On the other hand, the Ministry sees the possibility of providing equipment for those premises that would have to be provided additionally. Here, of course, the possibilities for this programme to be properly debated, slightly reshape, and in the context of what is financially possible, but also in the light of the resources available, others, I think that this programme is actually carried out in this way. Of course, the first task now is to appoint a temporary President of this Court, this is the task of the President of the Supreme Court. The President is then appointed to identify himself with such programmes, with which we will hold further discussions as soon as possible. This has also ensured that all others involved in this context have only one part of the competence here, in particular with regard to equipment. Thus, for this court, which has special problems, we would have come up with a special programme to address these accumulated backlogs. Much will also depend on the President, who will have to deal with all aspects of this issue. I am sure, and for this there is every assurance that all those who have to play their part in this area are aware and willing to play it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. In doing so, we have exhausted the answer to the question of colleague Zupanova. Comrade Terchón will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Let me warn you, this moment on the screen is not an hour, the technical services are already handling this issue. You have about 3 minutes available, but please take into account that due to technical difficulties you would not interrupt the meeting. Please, Comrade Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you, sir, the President. We ask Mr. Minister Marble a question. Dear Mr. Secretary! At the January meeting of the National Assembly, you were asked questions about the reorganization of tax offices. At that time, in your reply, you stated that it had been preliminaryly concluded that certain internal changes would be necessary regarding the organisation of work in customer-to-client proceedings and probably even changes in legislation. You also mentioned that the Commission appointed by your predecessor will continue its work with some changes and will conclude it in February 2003. On the basis of the findings, however, appropriate amendments should then be followed. That is why I asked you a similar question myself, at the home meeting of the National Assembly, when we should have already obtained the results of that Commission. At that time, you did not give an oral reply and should reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Because you haven't done that either, I am once again asking you an oral question and I am also asking for a written answer. The question is: What are the findings of the special commission that reviewed the work of tax offices or tax expositions? I also wonder whether you have already taken certain measures on the reorganisation of tax offices on the basis of an analysis of the situation and what these measures are.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you so much for asking. I am sorry that, according to our information, we have provided a written response to the National Assembly, and it seems that it has been misdirected. Notwithstanding this, the work and efficiency of the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia should also be discussed by the working bodies of the National Assembly at the time of the examination of the audit report of the Court of Auditors. In the framework of the comprehensive material that we have prepared at the request of the National Assembly, this report, which you are asking, on the implementation of the professional supervision of the operation of the Tolmin tax station, the tax offices Nova Gorica and Hrastnik. This was the continuation of that commission I was talking about.This actually ended the work at the end of February, but then we immediately approached on the basis of the results of these analyses, to examine individual measures that would make this reorganisation more effective. If I might quote a part of this report that is crucial: "For the sake of large fragmentation," because it is 60 items, "the control of uniform implementation of dosing and control procedures is very difficult. There was no review of taxpayers at the level of the tax office. The major problems were mainly to ensure the up-to-dateness of accounting and to resolve complaints." And that was the basis for the reorganisation. The purpose of this reorganisation is to simplify the procedures from the first contact of the taxpayer with the tax service through the main office to the central execution of dosing procedures, central accounting and the central execution of enforcement recovery. Data capture for planning and analysis and maintenance of the entire information system should also be carried out in a uniform manner at the level of the tax offices. That was the point. However, when the commission went to the field and looked at the situation, she found: "In the discussions at the tax exposition of Tolmin and the tax office Hrastnik, the Commission assessed that the reform project was meaningful because it would simplify procedures and enable the work of the taxpayers to be easier. In particular, this requires two prerequisites: an effective link between tax offices and tax exposures, first and second, the ability of controllers and referees in tax exposure to be able to analyse and use the information provided by the information system of the tax office. Subject to these conditions, taxable persons, citizens and independent entrepreneurs may obtain all information and documentation at the level of tax exposures. In practice, so far, especially the Nova Gorica tax office, that the Tolmin tax controllers were unable to provide information from the Nova Gorica tax office, so there was a great dissatisfaction of the taxpayers, especially independent entrepreneurs. Moreover, it is not possible to rule out resistance to reform also because the new system will repeatedly break down the close link between the tax exposure reference and individual local liabilities, which may have had adverse consequences for the objective implementation of the tax procedure. If the new system is implemented in practice as envisaged, there will be no problem of issuing tax certificates, but it should be noted that the required certificates must be issued immediately if the conditions are met. The debtors shall be informed exactly what the certification procedure is and shall be allowed to pre-order by telephone or fax." It's just one part of this complete analysis of Durs. On the basis of this comprehensive analysis, these five measures have been taken, which Durs is now implementing and I will give them to you. First, Durs must continue to reorganise the functions of tax exposures and tax offices and set the exact dates of termination in all tax offices. Durs must immediately start by addressing the issue of accounting and the unification of accounting systems for all taxes and putting the solutions properly into electronic tax business projects. Thus, in essence, the success of this call for electronic tax procedure has been initiated. Durs, together with the Ministry of Finance, must examine the necessary legal changes in the area of payment transport and propose amendments to the rules if necessary. We are still studying this because it is a relatively complicated matter. The new payment system, as it is set up, if you would like to shorten that period, would really need complete changes in the payment system, so we are now looking for other options that are indicated. Durs must draw up internal instructions for the operation of tax offices and tax exposures with taxable persons, with precise deadlines within which it is necessary to resolve the requests and requirements of the debtors, including the problems of blocking transaction accounts. Durs must prepare all the necessary documentation for the construction of the single accounting system and start with the call, of course, which he has already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional question, Mr. Tercheon? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Minister, you have, I would say, tried, at the principal level, to justify this reorganisation and reform of tax offices. First of all, I would say that it's obviously stuck somewhere, because from the computer network of the National Assembly, from the magnetograms of part of the National Assembly, it's clear that I haven't received this written response that I requested. I hope we get it. However, I hope to receive an additional reply. I would also draw attention to some of the negative consequences of this reorganisation of tax offices or tax exposures. Mr. Minister, you have given me two examples and, in principle, why a reorganisation is needed. I expect in response, above all, that you will explain to me what the result is on the efficiency of the country's tax service on the basis of this reorganisation. As I said, I would also like to draw attention to some of the negative consequences. I am convinced that this is one of the processes of concentration and centralisation of the work of the state administration and is, in my personal opinion, a very unfortunate and even unacceptable case. Let me say some of the negative consequences that are evident from the constituency or tax exposition in my constituency in Séžana. Similar data are also applicable to certain other items. For this reorganisation, for the first time, it has been reduced or the tax administration has distanced from its services to its customers. That's obvious. Next. The possibility or accessibility of citizens to work in a given sphere of government has decreased. Let me just tell you a case where one girl tried to train at a specific tax office, which is now not where he was, you replied that you would like to take him, but that the travel costs are too high. From a specific tax point of view, 12 workers were dislocated without rationalising or reducing the number of workers in the state administration. Obviously, for these people, according to their permanent residence, there is a substantial increase in travel costs. However, a year or two ago, the specific tax exposure was modernised, including by investment, and now largely by itself. These are just some of the concrete very negative consequences of this reorganisation, which I personally believe has been harmful. I expect an additional, more reasoned written response, in particular with the reasoned effects of the measures of this reorganisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you answer now or in writing? Thank you. We can proceed. Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I have a question for the well-respected Minister of Education, Mr. Gabra. In the media last year in Finance of 22.9.2002, we saw an article about residents staying in Ljubljana’s student homes for months instead of paying the student’s economic rent. Homes also pay a subsidy to them from the Ministry. However, the Ministry is expected to return unjustifiable subsidies to student homes immediately, which is not the case. In Maribor’s student homes, subsidies are not returned and are never returned, since no one has ever asked them to do so. The head of Ljubljana’s homes in the article claims that the budget for unduly received subsidies is made once a year. However, on the question of whether an unjustified subsidy was recovered last year, the journalist did not receive an answer. Since there are many such tenants, I ask you to answer the question: Has the Ministry received unjustifiably received subsidies from student homes, and in what way are subsidies returned? What are the penalties if the subsidies mentioned do not come back? Let me tell you one of the students' stories. On 30 September 2002, a student’s contract to stay at a student’s home expired. The student was given a decision to move out of the dormitory at the prescribed time. For the reason of the eviction, it was stated that the student did not meet the conditions laid down in Article 12(3) of the student subsidy regulation - or that the student is educated under a study programme which is carried out as an extraordinary study less than three days a week. That's not always true. Extraordinary students also have lectures three times a week, including during the working week. If the Ministry refers in this case to the course and amount of lectures: On what basis do the graduates then have the right to stay in student homes? On 4.12.2002, the student appealed to the decision of the student homes by the Ministry of Education and, according to the facts, hoped for a positive solution to the complaint. The Ministry of Education has considered the complaint longer than provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act - it should be given a residence decision within 30 days. The decision was dated 3.2.2003. Thus, two months after the student’s complaint was filed, the student was charged an economic price for all the days he waited for an answer or was to have an unjustifiably resided in a student’s home. In the event of a well-resolved complaint, is the unduly charged economic rent repaid to the student? Who is responsible for the delay in handling complaints? Since the subject is of a very sensitive nature, I would like to ask the Minister for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u106	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, because the case is of a very specific and very specific nature, allow us to prepare a detailed, written answer for you. But I can tell you right now that I believe that the return of subsidies that were unduly paid when it came to this is something that we will take care of, and I think it is probably very reasonable that, in the event of a legitimate complaint, the funds that were paid above would be reimbursed. But as I say, you will get a written answer to that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Question to Mr. Kebra, Ministry of Health, nice greeting. The problem of drugs - the Office of Drugs is being abolished and its competences transferred to the Ministry of Health. Slovenia is, according to EMCDDA research, the European Monitoring Agency for Drugs and Addictions of Children, 1999, out of the 29 European countries participating in the survey, we are in the 5th place. The study asked about life experiences, with any illicit drugs of boys and girls aged 15 and 16. 28% of boys and 23% of girls have had that kind of experience. On average, 26% of us were ranked 5th in the UK, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Italy. This makes it clear that drugs are a major problem for us and that the problem of drugs needs to be solved in a complex way. The transfer of labour in the Ministry of Health will make the fight against illicit drugs less effective. As a department of the Ministry, he is likely to be subordinated to the secretary of a certain ministry. This will result in the degradation of jurisdiction. Drug policy will slowly focus on one ministry. The head of the department will have little formal power, he will only be able to refer to coordination at lower administrative levels. Only -- they don't have the power to make deals, they don't have the power to make decisions. An integrated approach will probably not be possible either, as the approach of the competent ministry will be more focused on a medical or more repressive model. Experience from the European Union has shown that this leads to disruptions in coordination at local and national level. Policy where there is no permanence of political, organisational and operational coordination of police work, customs, departments in charge of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of drug users and also international representation is by no means effective and does not meet the standards of work in the European Union. Financing will be carried out through the budget of one of the ministries, priority will be given to, unwittingly, the programmes of the Ministry in which drug policy is located. The rest of them won't be able to finance it because there's no conditions for it. The other ministries will give priority to their programmes and not to the joint programme, as the responsibility for policy management will be assumed by the Home Ministry. International cooperation will take precedence over the professional views and programmes of the Ministry in which the drug unit will be located. This will leave the presentation abroad unbalanced; there will be more opportunities to connect with abroad; there will be no opportunities for others. The consequences will be the travel of representatives of individual ministries, as they will have to learn about matters abroad in order to be successful in their field. International cooperation will be chaotic, as it will not be known: who, where, where, and who represents. Delegations will be unbalanced; they are likely to represent the positions of the health centre. In short, the problem of illicit drugs is serious and requires a serious, comprehensive approach from different sides and must not be limited on the one hand. I'd just like to ask you a question. I wonder: How will the programmes, including those now financed by the European Union, be financed in the future? What will be the country's strategy? Who and how will decide the priorities of work? And finally, what about the personnel that are now employed at the drug office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor. It would be too tending to describe the government's organisational action with only positive connotations. Governments are changing organisations, all governments around the world are doing this, and it is quite possible that there will be different organizational changes in the future. Therefore, it is not possible to assess any change by predicting that it is reliablely good, but, of course, by considering that when it assesses what environment its offices have now in the government environment and what environment they might have within the framework of as much as possible, let's say, the ministries in question. The judgment ruled that because of this relatively small support - or let's say a vacuum - it was worth trying to organise at the level of the Ministry of Health, this is an example of the Office of Drugs. Let me mention that it is not a very random ministry, that our public health programme includes similar programmes, to mention only our programme concerning another drug, alcohol, which proves that the Ministry of Health can find partners in discussions on a problem that is far from just his problem, but in the case of alcohol, several other sources. Specific answers to your questions. As of 1 January 2004, when the Office for Drugs comes to our house, it will, understandably, be given a new organizational form in which it will retain all its tasks and all its employees, as it has done so far. We will try to support his functions by helping us with a national drug control programme already in place, and I, or the Minister of Health, am the head of the Commission. And let me say that this programme, which you are about to receive to Parliament, again reveals the need to cooperate with several drug-related pillars. I can understand your concern as to whether the impact, the power of an office closed to one ministry, will be similar to that of the past. On our part, however, we will do the same to coordinate his work and support his efforts. Let me mention that there is a much greater interest in the Department of Public Health and, of course, in the field of drugs, given the possible downsides, which are called the greater formal role of the Government in supporting the Office. Of course, it is true that it is not just a health issue that we are aware of; in the field of public health, there is a large part of the problems that are not health problems, but nevertheless, in terms of health, they are found in our ministry. Therefore, I do not think that the fate of this office is to be feared or if its fate is poor, it will be more a result of subjective issues than its relocation from the government to the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Can we move on? Please, Levich - an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u113	I'm sorry, Mr Vice President, I didn't report another question. I just want to say that with regard to yesterday's water polo, I am very negatively surprised at the fans who came from another country, our neighbouring Croatia, and I would just like to ask the Minister - I don't know if you'll leave: what will they do with such hooligans and that this will no longer happen? For what I watched on TV yesterday is outrageous and I have no words by chance, if you have any comment, I would be very happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u114	It's not exactly the rules of procedure, but it's up to date. Perhaps we ask the Minister whether he wants to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u115	I agree with your assessment. This is an outrageous act. The police had carefully designed plans to protect this, to secure this event and related violent activities. The reasons for these actions are also more responsible, we will draw up a special report and take appropriate action and also present those responsible to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much. She has a word, Mrs. Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government. I have asked you today, Minister of Finance, Mr. Maramor. Your words are probably the most cited in recent times, since I am not surprised by the fact that you have announced some very important changes by the time you arrive. The most receptive are those relating to changes in the field of tax legislation. We have already heard a lot about changes and additions to the value added law, and you have already drafted the text in the government, and we expect further consideration in the National Assembly. The public has been most excited by the debate on the envisaged tax legislation reforms concerning real estate; very little or nothing is said about green taxes and their application and use. As you are probably aware, an environmental report on the state of the environment in Slovenia has recently been published. If I say briefly that the assessment is not the best, if I use the primary school assessment, the environmental report is such that the state of the environment in Slovenia is somehow between two and three, it is better to lean towards an assessment of two. This means that it is time to do something in this area too, and I think it would be good not to hesitate. Slovenia will be an equal member of the European Union and it is known that Member States have significantly increased the use of organic taxes since the 1990s. The use of environmental taxes is expanding on an increasing number of tax bases. Most members introduce taxes in the context of ecological tax reform. Environmental taxes are increasingly used for development, promotion or, even better, maximising the incentive effects for development and development schemes for various purposes. It is known that environmental taxes are not present in the European Union in the field of legislative level, but that the Council of Europe is expected to reach agreement that the tax on Co2 can become the source of the European Union's revenue. 95% of the revenue from environmental taxes in Europe comes from energy and transport taxes, less than 5% of the revenue from environmental taxes comes from other environmental taxes and taxes such as: mission taxes, chemical substances, products, waste and exploitation of natural resources. However, the number of these ecological taxes increases and is taxed on increasingly recent and other tax bases, such as fertilisers, pesticides, PVC, solvents, various substances, even some tourist activities, surface water, etc. I will not say how European countries have undertaken tax reforms on environmental green taxes, but I ask you, given that you have planned for the reform: Do you also foresee any interventions in this area because there was no talk about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you so much for asking. I would say that, at the beginning of my presentation, I did not present myself as if I were imagining any special reform in this area. By the end of 2002, Slovenia had introduced the following duties, namely these green taxes, such as water reimbursements, water loading fees, air cargo charges with greenhouse gas emissions, environmental loads due to waste disposal and taxes due to the use of lubricants and liquids, and in 2003 an environmental burden was imposed on spent motor vehicles. Now, in terms of the revenue of the budget, the revenue from these taxes increased considerably, by 26.5 billion in 2000, by 27 billion in 2001, by 37 billion in 2002 and by 1 such estimate by 42.6 billion in 2003. So, from this point of view, the burden on these fees is increasing in Slovenia. Now, if we look at what the purpose of these environmental taxes, as they are called, is probably double; at least so all these European Union countries, for these two reasons, also introduce taxes. Firstly, through the burden of environmental pollutants, these benefits are sought to reduce pollution, because we are increasing the costs of impacting a reduced use of certain goods, and through the burden of users of a particular natural resource, we are also providing funds to restore them from these taxes or to clean or preserve them. Now, according to these current regulations, the state is not a direct investor in environmental protection projects, but co-finances these projects prepared by businesses and local communities, and in accordance with the environmental law, around 17.2 billion tolars were earmarked for environmental protection purposes from the State budget in 2002, i.e. from 37 it was17.2, but accurate data are not yet known because the environmental agency will still issue certain dosing provisions for some only October this year. The funds can be used strictly on purpose and recovery is also necessary if ex post verifications reveal that they have not been used intentionally. So I would say, the general picture of this area is that we are increasingly using these environmental taxes in Slovenia, we are also increasing this burden by these taxes, and we are trying to improve the environmental situation in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Yeah, that's a follow-up question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I thank you for this very comprehensive data, some of which I have even known and how to use. Only, but I think the relationship between the funds collected for these purposes and investment and co-investment to improve the environment or improve either cleaning plants, village water pipelines - is not proportionate. In view of the fact that the environmental report in some way shows certain segments which, however, should be improved in the investment programme, I ask you: Are you planning for the next budget period to make more use of environmental investment in this relationship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Now, as far as this ratio is concerned, as far as environmental taxes are concerned and there is revenue in the budget and how much it is then directly devoted to projects through this co-investment, this ratio is a matter of priority assessment and assessment of how much you are trying to disstimulate with these fees and how much you are actually trying to invest in this area of environmental improvement. I would say that for 2004, although the talks between the Ministry of Environment and Space and between the Ministry of Finance are always in this direction of increasing these investments or co-financing these projects, for 2004, as I will then explain at the time of the budget's rebalancing, I do not expect them to be able this year, when we enter the European Union, to devote a higher percentage of these funds due to the necessary restructuring. However, in the coming years, we will try to adhere to environmental standards in the European Union, but I would point out that Europe, of course, has the highest standards in the world on environmental protection issues, and in this regard too now, in the face of the global recession, the very clear demands of companies that are extremely burdened by the fact that they need to be careful how much businesses are burdened with these fees to remain competitive. That's how it's supposed to be weighed between one and the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Presidential, distinguished ministers. I would like to raise the question of the environment to the Minister of Environment, Mr Kopač, in particular as regards drought. The problem in Eastern Slovenia is from day to day, if I don't say from week to week, more and more pressing. In fact, the crops that were sown are practically stagnant in development, the damage caused by the drought seems to be great. Not just drought, but we've been dealing with certain bacterial diseases lately, especially pears and apples. These are all kinds of natural disasters that affect our citizens, now in one part of Slovenia, now in the other part of Slovenia. I think that every year there is a recurring debate in this House on how to systematically address these issues and how to help those affected by this problem. To help those who actually suffer great harm and whose existence depends on it. Today's debate on the Committee on Finance has shown, in essence, that even in the budget rebalancing, there is a reduction in the budget reserve, which is intended for urgent intervention in such events, in order to mitigate, of course, the consequences for the family budgets of a variety of farmers or those who live on it. So I ask: Why is there no system law in this area so far? Why is there no money earmarked for these purposes, or is this money even declining in the balance sheet? And: Why are such impossible procedures envisaged in determining the damage and then later in recovering this damage, that some are virtually not getting the money or waiting for it for even half a year or more. In short, I think this area requires an arrangement that is not properly defined and regulated. And I am very interested because it is a pressing issue of how the Slovenian government or the relevant ministries will solve it - whether it will leave it to the balance and some confusion of this number of families or will come to their aid.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. After the announcement, I saw that the Member, Mr Vizjak, asked the Minister for Culture, but I would still like to respond as much as I can. The System Law on the Rehabilitation of Natural and Other Accidents was written sometime in September last year and was, unfortunately, very long in interdepartmental coordination. Now, interdepartmental coordination is over and by accident - not because we are in such circumstances, but by chance - exactly Thursday this week at the government meeting is on the agenda and will be here on Friday, with you. System law. This will, of course, be adopted on a regular basis, as you will decide whether there will be general consideration, whether then only the second and third together, or the second and third separately, will depend on you. As for other current conditions when you talk about drought in Slovenia, which is also fasting our agriculture, and fire or pears ’ burn, I must say that all such potential natural disasters - this has not yet been declared a natural disaster, but potential natural disasters - are being conducted in Slovenia in accordance with a procedure envisaged by the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. The procedure under this law is managed by the Department of Defence and not by the Ministry of the Environment, because you asked me what the government is predicting in relation to this drought. However, I happen to know because it is also in inter-resort coordination: it is this Thursday that the Department of Protection and Rescue, or Minister Grizold, is preparing information for the government's meeting on the crimson burn, but I do not know whether or not it has to do with the drought. And it is certain that the government will respond or act accordingly by means of a procedure that foresees a law on protection against natural and other disasters. So I couldn't agree with that -- well, since you didn't even say it, you said more about whether the government would leave it all to us -- absolutely not. To respond, we have a law on protection against natural and other disasters, and the procedure led by the Administration for Protection and Rescue is ongoing, and the system law is accidentally on its way to parliament this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u128	Explain first. I have no doubt that Mrs Culture Minister is absent for urgent reasons. However, I did not want to interrupt Mr Visiak on his question because I believe that his question is also in a substantive sense very topical. As before, I did not take the opportunity to ask Mr Levic an additional question about a very current matter. I think that we must be so alive that the questions of the Members are consistent with the Rules of Procedure, but life is more important than the bureaucratic procedure - despite everything. That's an extra question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Culture if she were here, and I apologize for asking you a question; but I think it is important for our citizens. I'm kind of calm when I see something moving in the field of legislation. However, this is the first step that has not yet satisfied me fully. Why? I think farmers need what will make their position easier - that is, in particular, money and fast, efficient procedures, how to replace loss or this loss of income. From one law that will go into parliamentary procedure, which will probably be adopted in the second half, or rather hard in winter time, it is hard to promise something in the light of the current volatile situation. Therefore, I would like to ask: Does anyone also have data on how much resources are provided for the most urgent measures that are more than necessary in view of the drought that has occurred, both in Posavje and in other parts of Slovenia; and, of course, this pearmark, which I hear, is spreading rapidly, also due to inadequate measures by those who have to cut trees and fix the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u130	Well, now we're opening the agenda almost. So please, let's stay in the frameworks that are foreseen. However, since the content is linked to at least two ministries, Minister Booth may be interested in saying something in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u131	The only thing I can say is about the crimson burn. By the way, the measures are absolutely right. Today we also had 40 people from all over Slovenia in talks, representatives of fruit growers. And the only question is whether or not and when to use antibiotics. When we do, and if we do, everyone will jump into the air, why we're using antibiotics, like everyone else is in the air now, why we're not using them. We don't use them because they're not allowed. If they're allowed, of course, everyone will say: we're endangering human health, but that's another story. It is clear there that, as a country, we are obliged by law to cover the cost of cutting wood; this process is taking place. On the other hand, as far as the status of the natural disaster in relation to the carrion is concerned, I understand that this procedure has already expired and that the fact of the natural disaster has already been declared - in the light of the procedure we have carried out. And the Minister of Defence will report this week to the government on the first assessment we have prepared together with our ministry. However, it is likely that it will take about one month and a half to make a final assessment and, on this basis, to draw up a certain intervention law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Dear Ministers and Minister, distinguished fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I have announced two issues, namely, somehow now this second issue of drought has already been dealt with, even though it has not been so announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure; but nevertheless, the matter is indeed topical, as the President has also found. As for the first question, I would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, namely: The Finance Journal allegedly published some time ago, according to the president of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, that Ljubljana’s dairy producers are exporting raw or - not to be mistaken - pasteurised milk for processing in neighbouring Austria - for this, of course, they receive a state export subsidy - and then import back milk powder, which, as we know, is also produced in a dairy shop in Murski Sobota. I wonder, does this thing hold? I must say that I myself have tried to check the data on the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically with Branka Skrt, who is supposed to be in charge of this area, but to this day, it is said that within ten days this data has not been obtained. I could not get an answer at all whether the customs administration was in charge of this, and if not, why not – simply, the customs administration did not answer that question. That's why I'm asking you this question, Mr. Secretary. So I asked the question a little differently: Is that true or not? And if so: How many Ljubljana dairy exports were made in 2002 and until that time in 2003 of raw milk, and how much did it import milk powder at that time? For then there is the question of the legality or illegality of doing so. I also raised the question a little bit: Is such traffic possibly taking place between neighbouring Italy and Croatia? So, if it's about these kind of trade connections. And if I may also raise another question which I have also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I also wanted to ask him about drought, and I will now perhaps, because the question has already been answered, I have tried to turn this question into a proposal. Indeed, it is illogical for the Ministry of Environment and Space to deal with the issue of drought. I have not observed that the same procedure would be in the European Union's neighbouring or countries. This issue falls everywhere within the area of the Ministry of Agriculture. So, of course, I suggest that the Ministry of Agriculture in particular should think about this in our case, what can be done during this period when meteorologists predict or make public information that such a rainfall deficit has not occurred in the last 150 years - what can we do? First of all, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, I would like to ask you: Do you think at the Ministry that this year's harvest will be at least 3 weeks earlier than the previous years - what can we do in this direction to possibly sow these pruning crops with the help of the advisory service and, of course, with the help of, part of the country's aid, to process them with the appropriate plants in order to obtain the missing voluminous feed? For the worst part of this dry season will surely be the survivors of the cattlemen, in the first place the cattlemen. Of course, it would be possible to help in some way on this side; otherwise, I must say that I do not believe that these matters can be resolved in some systematic way, as the Minister for Environment and Space has just said, which is probably better understood in other matters. Dry periods need to be easily, I'm sure, resolved by intervention laws. So, of course, I ask: Will the government come up with such a proposal or is it already being prepared? If he's not there, of course we're going to do it in the opposition, just like we did last year or 2001. It is quite clear - the fact that the dry seasons apply, after all, the Scriptures speak of this in order to remind you of Pharaoh's dream of seven fat cows and seven dry cows, it is said, that they knew this problem at the time, and the explanation was that all of them must, when they are doing well, save some money so that when such disasters occur, they can intervene in an appropriate way. So I think myself, Mr Minister, that the only and only way to solve this problem is to immediately help those affected by this disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you so much for the questions. If my information is, I will start back, although most of it will probably have to be added by a fellow Minister of Digač for the time being, because I suppose if my information holds that we were both once ministers, it means that we both know this opportunity about those seven dry and fat cows and so on, so I agree with you. On the other hand, I don't mind if the amendment of the legislation also speaks of drought and other similar natural disasters moving into the responsibility of the ministry that I am currently running, perhaps that would be logical. As far as the participation of the advisory service at work and with the assistance of the State in providing advice for, for example, better or for the most efficient use of these pruning crops is concerned, I think it is actually the duty of the advisory service to do so. However, it is still largely paid by the State. We, I think, will also encourage her to do so. They are the best and most correct address because they are daily with manufacturers and this is actually their task. As far as the first question is concerned. The first question, the short answer is: don't hold. Nobody in that country who drives milk, raw milk to a drying service or dusting service in any country, either Austria or Italy, and brings back milk powder as a result of this service, cannot and does not grant export subsidies, this is very clear and verifiable. So this is absolutely not true, but it was written anywhere or not, and that is not true. In particular, according to the data of the customs administration in 2002, 48.300 tonnes of milk or dairy products are, of course, milk more exported outside the Republic of Slovenia, of which 10,000 tonnes to Croatia, 10,000 tonnes to Italy, are negligible to Austria. At the same time, 32 tonnes of powdered milk were imported from Austria and some smallness, half a ton, from Croatia. As far as this year's data is concerned, they are roughly the same, because they relate to half of the year and are therefore half of last year's data. As far as the amount of import support paid is concerned, I do not want to comment on the details for each company because I do not know if this is appropriate. All I can say is that in accordance with the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2002, we paid a total of 4.5 billion Slovenian tolars in support of exports of Slovenian milk outside the market of the Republic of Slovenia or products from milk. We do know, however, that in fact we have only four dairy and the largest dairy, called the Ljubljana dairy. This is 2002 data - as an orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you. Another question, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u137	Just for a little while. Mr Minister, I don't think there can be a secret to how much of these funds the Ljubljana dairy has received. After all, these are state funds, these are budgetary resources, and of course I would ask you to say with this additional question: How many of these 4.5 billion have received the Ljubljana dairy? For me, as a Member coming from the northeast of the country, where this drought we have already talked about today is, of course, extremely important. Because I say that the biggest dairy producers in Slovenia are actually farmers in northeastern Slovenia and they will also have the most problems due to drought. That is why, of course, I am interested in how the subsidised state affects trade in this country, for Slovenia a very important agricultural product.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u138	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I think that the country is extremely intensive in this, without the support of the country in this area - of course, it is a European fully acceptable and coordinated measure, which will also apply after the entry into the European Union. The difference is that these funds will be paid in full by the European Union budget, 100% from 1 May next year. These are special status funds. So 4.5 billion Slovenian Tolars were paid in a legal and public way last year on the basis of a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Slovenian dairy companies. If the calculation, which maintains that about 55% to 60% of milk is bought annually by Ljubljana Milk Shops, means that it is also exported around these ratios, it means that about that much of the money is allocated to the Ljubljana Milk Shop. Of course, Ljubljanske mlekarne, you know, operate not only in the region of the Ljubljana region, but cover at least half of Stajerska, since Mlekkarne is no longer in Maribor or is part of the capital system we talked about - Ljubljanske mlekarna. And finally, if this were not the case, in fact, we would produce about 35% more milk than we spend in the Republic of Slovenia, probably talking about the fact that the purchase price of milk would be about 15, if not more, perhaps even a percentage more, lower than what it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister and distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble. Above all, the basic question is: When will the government end the mess of paying off government officials? In fact, according to an article of the Secret Wage in Mladina on 19 May this year, where the salaries of government officials in ministries, as well as in public institutions, public enterprises, have been detailed, it is clear that the wage growth has risen rapidly over the last two years and exceeds the mutual ratios between the government, the State Assembly and the judiciary. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: Will the government, at the time of the August freezing of salaries in the public sector, at the same time address the imbalances in this sector? At the same time, by the way, I agree that the state must save. And if he wants to save money in the public sector, he has to save money first. And government officials or government officials are the first of them. At the same time, I do not think that there can be exceptions to the public sector system. Because it is only from this article that we can find that some directors of public enterprises, shareholders in most state-owned companies, are well above the government's already-mentioned decision. I therefore expect that, if not already in August, this imbalance will be resolved even earlier. At the same time, I would actually ask the Minister for an answer to the question I have already raised on 22 April, which also discusses how the State will directly or directly collect the tax on the division of profits in this company. In fact, it is about financial resources, saving funds at the expense of the State. This week, we also have a budget rebalancing in this session, and it is likely that the finance ministry is one of the first key sources to look for reserves, both in the payment of salaries to government officials and in the acquisition of revenues where necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you so much for asking. While the Ministry of Finance is not competent to regulate and monitor all salaries of government officials and the salaries of directors of public institutions and public enterprises, which also do not have the status of government officials, it would be more appropriate to address this question by the Office of Government Wages or the Service for Personnel and Administrative Affairs. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance is certainly interested in preparing appropriate analysis of the state of salaries of officials and directors as soon as possible and in eliminating any irregularities immediately; the Government has already adopted a decision in this regard. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Government has adopted three different decisions regulating the salaries of management bodies in public institutions, public undertakings and companies owned by a majority of the state. One decision for public companies, agencies and funds, the other for public institutions and the third for companies owned by a majority of the country, to which, if I understand correctly, your question, where the Government's decision on the recommendations made by representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in supervisory boards of companies whose majority ownership is the Republic of Slovenia, is applicable in the conclusion of employment contracts. In this regard, we have a system that, if there are errors in the payment of salaries to the directors of these companies, which is also applicable to public institutions, and this is undoubtedly determined on the basis of the audit findings - internal audits by the competent ministries have to be established - it is necessary to identify who is responsible for this and to propose to the government that it adopt appropriate sanctions. In this regard, there may be a problem if there is no mutual interest to harmonise the provisions of individual employment contracts. If there is no mutual interest and because existing contracts are valid and cannot be terminated without financial consequences, unilaterally cancelling, it is necessary to determine what is in the interest of Slovenia. The salaries of government officials are still governed by the law on wage ratios in public institutions, public authorities and local community bodies, except for officials for whom the provisions of the law on Members apply mutatis mutandis. In the event of the August freezing of wages, it is not realistic to expect and it is not possible to eliminate all the wage imbalances in the public sector so far. The imbalances so far will be phased out gradually, from 2004 to 2008, the range between minimum and maximum basic wages may then be 1:10, in accordance with Article 50 of the Public Sector Wages Act. This law, however, will not apply until 1.1.2004. Of course, the Ministry of Finance supports an accelerated abolition if there are some salaries that are not in proportion to these three government decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much. An additional question, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, I'm afraid you didn't cheer me up with your answer. I think he's too loose. The fact is that some of the data is material. In fact, if I just say for a moment to the New Bank of Maribor, this data will come out for more than 50 percent, as well as for the Post Bank of Slovenia. At the previous meeting I also mentioned Post Slovenia, as well as the Society for State Roads, as well as holding Slovenian power plants. In fact, these numbers are essentially outside the box. I've only mentioned some. It is a fact that the government can not only make recommendations to its members in the supervisory councils, but it can give them clear guidance that must be binding on the members of the supervisory boards. Otherwise, the government also has instruments to replace its members of the supervisory boards, if they do not respect the recommendations of the government, with others. And I do not think that this is the right approach of the government to settle wages in the field of government officials or managers operating in companies, public companies, agencies owned by the majority state. I therefore explicitly expect that the government will address this issue more decisively and that this number will not come forward in the future. The government has instruments, so please, and not just please, I demand that this be settled. In fact, if this is binding on certain public sector companies, it must also be for others. There can't be an exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you. Can we proceed with the next question? Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Okay. Mr Jerovšek has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. My first question is to the Minister of Finance. Slovenia has recently faced pressure from Croatia to incriminate the behaviour of the Ljubljana Bank in the matters of the LHB Bank Frankfurt and the problem of the so-called savers of the Ljubljana Bank Zagreb. Croatia alone has not ratified a successful agreement with the excuse that it is not the clear fate of foreign reserve deposits of the former SFRJ. In doing so, she even announced an action against the Bank of Ljubljana as the owner of the Bank of Frankfurt - it is a so-called problem of mixed banks - if she participated in organisations in the disappearance of $589 million in foreign exchange reserves of the former SFRJ. Since the Prime Minister announced a revised strategy or negotiations with the Croatian Prime Minister on the problem of savers of the Ljubljana Bank of Zagreb, I wonder: Why does the Slovenian government change and change the strategy? What has been in the hands of the Croatian government that has been so arrogant lately in relation to Slovenia, and Slovenian policy in spite of the significantly improved international situation [[admission to NATO and the EU]] He's pulling out all the time? Whether the Croatian policy forces Slovenian policy with intelligence on the corruption of the work of Slovenian policy and important bankers on matters not directly related to this topic. What will the government do to protect Slovenian interests? I have more questions that are not for an open session, but also for these questions, if the interests of the State of Slovenia make it impossible to answer the open meeting, I accept that the answer is in the closed part of the session. With regard to the issue of the Ljubljana Bank, I ask further: two months ago, a settlement was reached at the Court of Justice in Trieste between the New Ljubljana Bank and the claimants in connection with the bankruptcy of the Market Bank. Although Nova Ljubljanska banka has always ensured that it has acted in full compliance with financial legislation and is not afraid of lawsuits, there has been a settlement, which means financial obligations for committees and indirect taxpayers from Slovenia. At the same time, this settlement was almost entirely silenced. I wonder: What are the financial obligations arising from the settlement? Whose illegal conduct within the bank or in Slovenian politics has been hidden and hidden? And: Will the government as the majority owner of the New Ljubljana Bank explore financial transactions, individual exploitation and demand individual responsibility? I hope to get an answer, and then I will ask Minister Dimovska another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u149	This question is different from what has been announced, so I ask you if I can provide an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you. Second question, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u151	If I understand correctly, there will be a complex answer in writing. You can't give it away. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u152	Mr. Minister answered, Mr. Jerovšek, didn't he?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u153	Yes, but I'm wondering if it's necessary to close a meeting of the National Assembly in order to be able to get an answer, or if it's only in writing that he intends to give.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u154	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Please, if you can explain again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u155	We'll give you a written answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u156	In this case, however, how can Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure be applied?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u157	First of all, it's not a matter of content anymore, it's a procedure. That's another question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u158	Ten days ago, a so-called protest assembly of women in Trbovje took place due to the closure of businesses, the abolition of jobs and the insufferable social distress. Protesters have found that the government supports the greed of the work of management structures, the destruction of businesses due to personal exploitation, and at the same time does nothing to create new jobs. In addition to Zasavje and Posavje, some other areas in Slovenia, Prekmurje, Podravje, Dravinjska Valley, Haloza, Baska Grapa and so on are facing unbearable social hardship with high unemployment and closure. Although relatively high financial resources are being allocated to the restructuring and opening programmes, their effects are not observed. We can agree with the protestors' statements that the funds are largely used according to client political criteria and clienteleistic connections within certain lobbyes. As the government's invited representatives did not respond to the meeting, I ask: When will the government take a serious approach to solving increasing unemployment and face the deterioration and prospects of many areas in Slovenia? How will it make sure that development money really goes where it is most needed, but not that most of it is rounded up and ended up in financial institutions in Ljubljana? What will help to prevent an increase in economic differences between people and the spread of poverty? Will and when will it recover the money that has gone through financial frauds such as SIB, the Red Cross, the billions of prizes to the leadership of Elan and the Maribor Vehicle Factory and so on, and direct this money towards opening new jobs in the deprived regions? I ask: How will the government respond to the legitimate demands of women in the Rippers? These drew attention to problems, and this is associated with similar protests by women in the womb 50s ago. The authorities of that time ordered that the superiors be sent in tanks. What does total carelessness and irresponsibility foretell today? Do we really have such a kind and kind government that, in exchange for the tanks, it offers mere ignorance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I will try to answer that question that is within the competence of the Ministry for which I am responsible and responsible. Your questions are very broad and require very precise answers, both financial and probably economic ministries and regional development services. So let me answer first with a few figures, macro-economics, which will explain the situation in detail, as regards individual programmes in individual regions. Later on, however, a specific case that you cited. First, let me say that the active employment policy programmes, which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and in the implementation of the Employment Service, are allocated approximately 16 billion funds this year. In order to do so, Phare’s 1.6 billion assets must be added. These are, I would say, those funds which do not interfere with these so-called passive aids, which are otherwise intended for unemployment benefits. These programmes are then drawn up in such a way that the funds are mainly directed towards those regions that have a higher unemployment rate and also a demonstration that I will also present to you, these funds go in the direction that, in fact, the subterranean, pomurska, Posavska region, Zasavje, namely those regions that have a higher average unemployment rate, are the most involved in these funds. However, it is certainly important that in Slovenia this so-called regional policy is linked to some specific coordination requiring different resources, not only to the means of reducing unemployment. Let me also say that Slovenia is one of those countries at the moment in Europe where unemployment is not increasing, which is the difference with most European countries, that even after registered unemployment we are experiencing a slight decline. However, I do not think that the figures themselves are the ones to satisfy the answer or question you have asked. In fact, I must say that, in fact, we at the Ministry always ask ourselves about individual members of the individual collective, so that the figures can also resolve the pressures of individuals and individuals who lose their jobs. I would say that, above all, it is the source of social pressures, as you have already determined, unemployment and the lack of new jobs. That is why we are trying to keep those jobs that, in some ways, retain employment with different programmes. The specific case that you mentioned, the case of TET in Trubów, of course, was given special attention by the Ministry of Labour. I have here very concrete: when, at what time, what activity we took through the employment agency, and this is part of the programme that we adopted last November 2002 as a programme for the active resolution of surplus workers in the textile and footwear industries. This is about 1.2 billion direct funds from the employment agency to solve the problem in the ‘textile’. We are aware that this is a sector that is still experiencing tremendous pressure in Europe, particularly because of East Asian and other countries that have significantly lower costs at which they can work. It was therefore necessary to accede immediately when this cycle appeared - at the end of last year - and the government has prepared and implemented a specific programme for restructuring and active resolution of surpluses in the ‘textile’ since 1.1.2003. Of course, I would say, the density of these companies is the largest in Zasavje, Prekmurje and Posavje and there are actually the greatest tribulations. In a specific case, as I said earlier, where 123 workers were left without employment, we have already approached the issues of solving this problem with 8.1. The workers received their first unemployment compensation on the basis of the application of the records of the institution. We have tried to get immediate access to the active discharge programme through the Employment Service, and 65 workers have been included in the two-day workshop. The way to work and employment, where job search should continue to try to find work for unemployed workers. And then some of the workers in this programme have already decided on the so-called 5000 programme, which is supposed to allow for an increase in the level of employment and education. The rest would also like to be included in other programs, so that eventually, what we want, all 123 workers would have some kind of employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. That's the last question. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u162	I cannot be satisfied with the answer, because these protestors have been asked wider questions and you have also acknowledged that they require precise answers. Mr Minister, I must point out that it is not the first time that we have observed the estrangement of power and also of your department from the problems of the actual situation. Look, on the case, I'll tell you what the response of your ministry was when the young family, when the four were born, asked for help and answered her, so we read that your ministry is not responsible, despite the catastrophic demographic situation in Slovenia. In this matter, I feel that you are not actually trying or solving those relevant questions that I have asked. I expect an answer about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u163	Here you go, Mr. Secretary, the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you. Here's what I have to say. As far as the Quartet is concerned, I am essentially surprised because we have a large family allowance since this year and that we actually have a renewed program for newborns this year, etc. So I would ask if there was anything that might have been lost in these bureaucrat mills or something like that to deliver to me personally, and I will personally make sure that it doesn't happen. Otherwise, please; our ministry representative participated at that meeting because he was invited. In fact, before the meeting, we sent a letter to the head or coordinator of this meeting explaining to her how our ministry cooperates through the employment agency. Otherwise, honourable Member, we are - and here I have said several times in Parliament - that any anonymous letter from any affected citizen in the field of employment, sociale, etc. can be directed to the Ministry and we will answer it or we will try to resolve its hardship. That is why - I can say this again - some employees, the unemployed use this mainly, for example, when calling the labour inspectorate to investigate a specific case based on an anonymous call, an anonymous letter of course with a name and surname, if that is what the person who sends it wants. I would hardly talk here about alienation, because we are actually trying to focus on any such problem. Personally this year, I will visit virtually all employment institutions, most social work and protection centres and work centres and actually consult individuals on the spot. One more thing. Directors of district units of the Podravska, Posavska, Pomurska regions direct me to discuss with each unemployed person in the congregation or in the region in order to change his or her plan of employment and to get personally acquainted with a particular problem or with the distress of an individual. They must report this to me virtually by the end of this month in these regions, which you also mentioned were the most affected, and I expect, of course, their response.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. He's got a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u166	The Minister himself said at the outset that the relevant questions require precise answers. I demand that, on the basis of Article 246 on this intolerable social crisis, unemployment is discussed in certain deproviligated regions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. This will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of its votes. Mrs Maria Ana Tisovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As everything revolves around money, Mr. Secretary Dr. Marble has very much to do today. He'll be able to answer me, too, if he can. More than seven years ago, the Constitutional Court found that the Income Law was unconstitutional because it provided for too little relief for the children of taxable persons. This year, however, the debtors will also be given income assessment decisions, where they will be reduced bases only for one child's income for only 23,543 tolars per month, which is offensive to little compared to the real costs borne by parents with children. I condemn such a demeaning attitude of the government towards the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is shameful for every country to tax those funds that parents have to spend on their children if they want to raise them to be good citizens. Obviously, however, our government is saving by failing to draw up a number of promised changes to the Income Act to bring it into line with the Constitution. In addition to the direct profit in the form of a higher tax paid by parents, it also has indirect savings, as such government policies give birth to fewer children and therefore the country has less costs by paying maternity benefits, children's documents and other activities related to the education and training of the new generation. I strongly protest against such a policy and ask: How much income will the state last this year on account of too little allowances for dependent children or other family members, and for what purposes does it intend to spend this difference? In the calculation, take into account the minimum resulting from the decision by which the Constitutional Court found that so far the income allowances for children are too low. However, the Ministry of Finance is not in favour of society, as it does not allow common taxation of the family, such as in other European countries, where, in calculating the personal income tax, both spouses may decide to apply for a joint declaration of income, which in the event that one of them has a much higher income than the other, brings lower tax rates from a progressive tax rate scale that depends on the level of the taxable event. In this way, the tax system promotes the formation of marriages, while our system promotes singleness. Will this promised tax reform also do anything to encourage families? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to Article 10 of the Income Act at the end of 1996, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision whereby the provisions of Article 10 of the Income Act are inconsistent with the Constitution, unless they fully exempt from taxation those amounts which the parent must devote to the survival of his island in order to ensure that the minimum of living conditions is guaranteed, as you have determined. In addition, the decision states that the legislator, in determining the existential minimum to be provided by parents, will take due account of the family's additional remuneration to partially cover the cost of maintaining the child provided by the State and be governed by the law on parental protection and family benefits, since they fall within the framework of the child's existential minimum. With regard to that decision of the Constitutional Court, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income submitted to the National Assembly for consideration in December 1997. In view of the fact that two other proposals for the Income Act were tabled before that proposal, the government proposal for the Law was not considered. In doing so, it must be stressed that a comprehensive amendment of the Income Act is necessary to implement that Constitutional Court decision, as an intervention in the relief system is necessary, which necessarily means a change in the financial effects for both taxpayers and the budget. In addition, the solution is also closely linked to the child supplement system. Tax exemptions for children should also be dealt with in connection with the system of direct transfers in the field of family policy following the Constitutional Court's decision, and the basic function of the tax system is to raise the revenue of the budget for the financing of expenditure, including to a large extent to finance family protection programmes. Tax reliefs can only be an additional instrument in the management of a particular family policy, not a fundamental one. The basic instrument of family policy is determined by a system of family benefits or by a law on parental protection and family benefits. One of the basic instruments is the child allowance, which was significantly increased in 1999 by the implementation of the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act and from 1.1.2002 significantly increased the benefits for the purposes of family benefits as certain family benefits increased, as for example parental allowances and child support, and certain family benefits were set for a new one-family allowance and a large family allowance, as already mentioned by the Minister of Labour. The Government has therefore drawn up a proposal for a law implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court within a period of time and submitted it to the national assembly. In addition, direct transfers in the area of family benefits, partly covering the minimum maintenance costs for the child, have been significantly increased during this period. The Ministry of Finance is preparing a proposal for a new Income Act, which will also implement the above-mentioned Constitutional Court decision. In accordance with the Government's work programme, the proposal for an income law provided for by the government in the second half of July this year is being considered. The new Income Law preserves the current concept of individual income taxation [[This refers to family taxation]] which, according to our assessment and also the assessment of foreign experts who advise us, is justified both in terms of family tradition and development and the role of women in Slovenia, as well as in terms of the experience of other countries which have traditionally had established as a possibility of family taxation, but are heading towards the abolition of family taxation and the introduction of individual taxation. [[such a case is Great Britain]] . Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you. Can we move on? Here's an additional question, Mrs. Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your answer. This is a very complex issue, which touches not only your ministry, but the whole government and government policy. That is why I would really like to see it not only partially once - once a ministry, twice a ministry - but indeed a government as a whole. If possible, please do something about it, because otherwise we'll be without families, without children, without everything, and we'll be the same old people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I address my question to Minister France Booth and Minister Rad Bohinc. In view of some cases of attacks by so-called combat dogs on humans and the abuse of the use of these dogs by people who have also been in conflict with the law, and of reporting to some police officers that these breeds of dogs are also used by criminals, especially drug traffickers, especially for the purpose of intimidation, but also often for the prevention of house searches, I wonder: Is it possible to limit or even prohibit the rearing of such dogs with legislation in the Republic of Slovenia, which will be comparable to some European countries that have even banned these kinds of dogs? Is your ministry, Minister Franci But, prepared at some appropriate time to prepare a proposal for such a law that will systematically regulate the possession and rearing of these dogs, or will it even prohibit rearing? And, Minister Rado Bohinc, I wonder: Is there a record in the Republic of Slovenia concerning dog attacks on humans? And: How many of these attacks relate to so-called fighting dogs? Ter: Is it possible to sanction those who do not provide at least minimum protection measures and those who use so-called fighting dogs for aggressive purposes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Member, for the question. For the first time, based on the Animal Protection Act, Article 15 states that it is not allowed in Slovenia to organize animal fighting or to use animals for fighting, or to encourage and educate animals for fighting another animal, unless of course we are talking about some exceptional conditions, such as the use of animals for certain special forms of fighting, which is not linked to the daily and daily way of life. This means that it is not possible to have this animal protection law in Slovenia. Thus, fighting dogs in Slovenia could only be raised for the purposes of a purely loving way of relations between a man or an animal owner and between an animal. This means that this is what is currently in force in Slovenia. Or could we take a step further and even ban the breed of these kinds of dogs or fighting dogs? Theoretically, this is possible, if we find such an agreement in the country of Slovenia, and theoretically, of course, it is possible to make and implement a special sub-law based on or for that purpose. We have already discussed this, even in the light of this question, which has been raised, we have discussed within colleagues from the veterinary administration and a little wider. We will continue to discuss this, and I hope that we will also take an appropriate position and decision. But we can also discuss this individually in the coming days. So in Slovenia these problems are not supposed to be, because, as I have already said, breeding, except for peaceful purposes, is forbidden, but of course we know that this is still happening. Let us therefore reflect on this and see what can and will be done meaningfully, even though it is desirable or even a rule not to restrict the breeding of individual species, if this is not necessarily necessary. But getting ready and thinking about it will go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you for that question. I can provide you with records of the perpetrators of crimes and crimes in this regard. In particular, there are three types of offences under the 1999 Animal Protection Act already mentioned. According to this law, the dangerous animal is the one who endangers the environment because of his insurmountability or shows offensive behavior toward man. In this regard, it is the responsibility of the custodian and carrier of such an animal to provide physical protection. If it does not provide physical protection, if the animal is not controlled, it shall commit an offence controlled by such inspections and shall be obliged to monitor and act and also sanction the police. For non-compliance with the provisions of the Control Order, i.e. for this offence, a fine of SIT 50 000 is imposed. In 2002, the police found nine cases of such violations. However, over the period from January to June there were 42 such violations and, of course, sanctions. Another type of infringement relates to the obligation of an animal keeper to ensure, by appropriate training and training or other measures, that the animal is not dangerous to the environment. A financial penalty of between 100,000 and 150 thousand SITs is provided for the guardian of animals in breach of these duties. In 2002, the police found 354 cases of violations of this provision and, of course, also took appropriate action with proposals for the initiation of proceedings before a criminal judge. Let me tell you more about this year - from January to June there have been 121 cases of such violations. And, as has already been said, fighting animals, organizing this fight and using animals to fight, and encouraging animal training to fight another animal is forbidden in us. However, there are also violations of this prohibition, in 2002 the police dealt with 32 infringements of the prohibition provisions relating to the organisation of the fight against animals or the use of animals. As for the direct question of how to deal with the records. The police do not report particularly dangerous animals, nor do they classify them as war crimes or not, but they record offenders and, according to the record of the offence. Moreover, in your question, it was also mentioned as an opportunity for a dog or any other animal to be used as a service of crime. In our records, the use of animals has not yet been recorded in such a case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. An additional question, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u180	Of course, I thank you for these answers, but there are additional questions. Because, Mr. Bohinc, I know the case myself when the dog was used for these purposes, and I'm talking about a fighting dog. It's the police administration in Cyprus, it's a case in court. This will probably mean that these cases in Slovenia were, perhaps not reported. I believe - I also talk to doctors who have dealt with such cases mainly in the E.R., but I am talking about dog attacks in general, that these cases are large in Slovenia. However, they are often not reported - neither are veterinary stations reported nor police stations. Therefore, my question was whether there was any such record at all, and I note that there is no such record in Slovenia in general on all possible cases. And I'd say to Mr Booth: I'm sorry I heard there wasn't supposed to be any problems. Of all the above, even of what Minister Bohinc said before - it is a problem. I would especially appeal to you that when you think to think quickly, but above all to act quickly. Because I don't want to be in Slovenian Romanian press or in points or, I'll say, in parts of newspapers that deal with chronicles, we'd like to deal with cases like we've already heard in Europe or more when these dogs, which are very aggressive, which are dangerous - they're not guilty themselves, the owners, certainly - attacked what's dearest and dearest to us. These are children who are the least able to defend themselves in such cases. Please, I urge you to take this matter seriously. Let us find a solution with which we can avoid any problem that might strike us and then ask ourselves why our heads are sore. Above all: How do we explain to our parents that we did not know, we did not have hearing to adopt appropriate legislation to avoid such victims? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Any of the ministers want a word? Here you go, Mr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u182	That's all I'd add to make sure there's no misunderstanding. I agree with you that there is a problem in a significant scale. About 500 violations of the provisions of the Animal Protection Act have been mentioned in all three categories. However, I would like to say that it will be clearer that, in any of these cases, this offence has not so far been classified as a crime - because under our criminal code, the use of animals as a means of crime is envisaged. This is a special crime. Clearly, the cases you have in mind were not of such magnitude that they were qualified in this way, but certainly as one of the 500 offences mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Secretary Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u184	Very briefly. For the first time, of course, if we decide to do so, I think it is necessary to think very carefully about this, and also to agree on what to do with existing animals, which are quite a few. And secondly, I doubt that all these attacks are related to these very fighting dogs, that there are no other dogs involved in this category, and that in some sense it will still appear as a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will address my question to the distinguished Minister Booth. In the last 10 years of the previous century, 30,000 farms have collapsed in Slovenia, 30,000 have left agriculture, a sad picture and image of Slovenian agriculture. The fact that it was not a restructuring shows that at the same time there was no increase in the processing and ownership area of the farm which remained. That this trend of abandonment of agriculture and the decline of farms has been given a special impetus since 2000, another truth, which coincides with the introduction of some, nicely said, of strange agricultural policy measures that I would not even mention today, is familiar to all of us. At the same time, we are seeing a high increase in employment in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Offices of the Ministry, public institutions and all the bodies set up by the Ministry of Agriculture as tools for the implementation of agricultural policy. I have two questions for the Minister. I would like to know exactly how many employees were at the Ministry of Agriculture until 30.5.2003, at the Ministry, at all offices, public agencies and at all agricultural institutions. How many of these have been employed in these institutions since your term of office, and how many have been employed on 1.1.1992? That's the first question. The second question on this subject is: In view of your projections, that the number of agricultural operators will decrease from 86 000 in 2000 to 30, 32 000 in 2010, I ask: What is the plan for the expansion and employment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Offices, Public Institutions and other institutions with the field of agriculture by analogy at the end of 2010? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik, for the question. However, I will have to reply in writing in part, i.e. accurate data for all the bodies in the composition of up to one number at this time; but I can say that there were some 180 people in the Ministry of Employees around this date, that they were employed by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, that day between 100 and 105, and that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, together with the Institute for Forests, Veterinary Administration, with all the authorities, inspectorates, etc., received around 2000 and several others, of whom approximately 750 of them are leaving the Institute for Forests. That's your information. How many were there during my term of office, and I can answer that in writing. I can tell you for sure that: at the forest office, I think no one at the inspectorate about 5 to 6, at the ministry itself, about 20 to 25, and at the agency itself virtually most, because the agency started working from zero in 2000 or when I was at the agency, there were 40 of them, that means a difference of 60 and something else. We will provide you with accurate information in writing, and I apologize for any lapsus, any up or down. As far as I'm concerned, why and why. The Ministry must do almost half of all the work in the European Union in some of the areas I am leading. We must adopt half of the sub-laws that this country must adopt. I am convinced that the relative burden on people working within the Ministry is very high. As far as the Agency is concerned, you know that the European Union requires additional personnel to carry out the accreditation of the paying agency. Accreditation of the paying agency is the only accreditation to be carried out by the Republic of Slovenia in order to enter the European Union because other measures such as regional and other cohesion measures or structural and cohesion measures are paid through institutions that do not require paying agencies accredited in Brussels. Agricultural policy and rural development policy, however, because it is a common agricultural policy that requires accreditation. The condition lays down the legal order, in particular the essence of the conditions of the system of so-called quadruples, never anyone who operates in any area of money-sharing in the same place should be longer than two years, then it must be rotated after entry into the European Union. As far as the rest is concerned, I do not believe that 86,000 active farms are in Slovenia. 65 000 is the maximum ceiling, that is the number of farms receiving an annual subsidy or applying for subsidies. There may be 1,000 others who are not eligible for the subsidy because they are cultures that do not receive subsidies. The fact that 30,000 farms have collapsed in the last 10 years is that the word "deprecated" is a little too heavy - it has stopped farming 30,000 farms. This can in any case be a positive trend, because in Slovenia we cannot increase farms if some do not stop farming. Surely, if, at the same time, other farms take over land for processing, this will not be a negative process, but rather a process of consolidating and increasing farms. If we notice intense cultivation in the area, then of course we are talking about negative processes. In some areas of Slovenia, especially in Notranjska, Primorska and some hilly parts, this process is obvious, and in some parts where the number of farms has decreased most intensively, this process is not so obvious because all the land has been treated. On the contrary, there is even a great interest in land. However, the problem is that the data on the size of agricultural land, 5 hectares, does not correspond by any means to the real picture. According to our agency data, the average farm is at least 11 hectares large, given the roles that are coming. The simple thing is, people simply don't do long-term rentals, make annual rents, or even make no rent. And that's the basic problem, why the land is being treated at the same time, but the average farm is still out there somewhere over 5 hectares; it certainly doesn't hold that data anymore. And we need to find an appropriate way, especially now, at the time of entry into the European Union, so that indeed those who do not process the land will be able to sell the land in a long-term, 20-year lease, or, of course, it is not possible to use these land as a basis for extensification subsidies and for the basis for investment measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you have mentioned, among other things, the agency for agricultural markets. You mentioned that this agency has received accreditation from the Brussels Commission or that it has already been accredited, more specifically. I will now ask one more question, which is also related to the scope of work and employment, specifically at this agency for agricultural markets. The public secret is that it engages at times also 300 students for the resolution or comparison of applications for direct payments and that there are some additional contractual employees for this. I wonder, what is this verification? Since the verification of such an agency is probably also in the sense of the necessary labour force to carry out a certain amount of work. I'm asking, is that true what I said? What is the extent of this additional engagement of employees, both students and others, on the agricultural market agency? And then the question comes to me, what does 100 and a few of the regulars at this agency do? This is related to my previous question and the generally known fact that the growing share of the funds allocated to agriculture by our country is being used by agricultural bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, will you give me an answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The Agency shall be accredited for Sapard measures while implementing national policies. This means that it makes approximately 30 different direct payments and around 21 different investment and other support to rural development measures. The Agency must be accredited by 1 May next year for all actions of the common agricultural policy. This means, for approximately 30 subsidy or direct payments and for all actions of the so-called environmental programme and support for restricted areas. No accreditation is required for investment support measures, but special monitoring is required, as is the case with other structural and cohesion measures. It's an intensive effort to obtain accreditation. Accreditation of allocations by the competent authority within the Ministry of Finance and subsequently confirmed by the European Inspectorate at its examinations or audit by the Board of Ministers that it makes sense to confirm the accreditation of the paying agency. At the agency occasionally - this means a concrete, average of two months per year - the number of students working, which was a maximum of 112. 112 students are in each summer period, which is the month of June and July, and this year earlier, May and June, since we have already started to request or collect applications, enters the data from the entry on the application into the computer form. This is a task that students or temporary staff are carrying out everywhere in European countries because it is the most rational and most meaningful, because it is of course a special skill that does not require other special knowledge. This will continue. However, we are talking with the agricultural - forestry chamber to allow their advisers to take over part of the input. Of course, it would be best if, as they think, for example, in the Netherlands and in some other countries, by 1.1.2007 farmers would have to enter their entire role in the computer program at home. That's how your students would fall off. Of course, I can hardly imagine that this would be possible in Slovenia already in 2007, but it is necessary to work on this, because of course this entails computerisation and another thing that is very important. Each entry point must be examined in some way so that I will not say accredited in a way that we can prove that each of the applicants, at this point they are agency plus students, at the second stage this should also be advisory service, at the third stage, at some point - when we do not know - but also farmers that are qualified to do so and that for them. In short, these procedures are extremely complex and we are working towards rationalisation in all areas, but the European Commission, especially Commissioner Fischer, who was here three weeks ago, has specifically reminded us of the acute lack of agency staff if we are to obtain accreditation. This is also why several additional people will be employed in the coming months. [[…]] [[End of Reply Mark]] May I have another sentence? [[…]] The Agency shall, however, issue tasks called "on the spot" control or control on the site of the inspectorate within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. So, my decision was that the agency would not employ people who would make 5 per cent of applications for agriculture and 10 per cent for animals, necessarily, this is the minimum of annual "on the spot" controls that follow the various cross-checking of data with databases that must of course be trained. These city controls are those that work contractually and are carried out by already employed people within the Ministry, by the Slovenian Agricultural Market Inspectorate - not for agriculture, forestry, fisheries, fisheries and nutrition.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr Bernik has the floor or question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, Madam Ministers. I had two questions, but I can't ask one because there's no culture minister here. I ask you, Mr President, what happens to our questions when there are no ministers?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u195	It's a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u196	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u197	It's a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u198	Well, then I'm relieved, thank you. However, I now have a question for the Minister of Justice, and the question which has been sent is very short. Why do criminal proceedings concerning the most serious crimes in Slovenia largely end with an acquittal or statute of limitations, as some current criminal cases show? This is a very general question, but I would like to hear your professional opinion: What can be done here? What are you doing? What are your plans? And: What have you done in this direction? But I'm also asking you, because for what you can do about the state's attorney's office, you're a man who has a chance to do something. My impression is that the Attorney General is making fun of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u200	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! So, despite the fact that we witnessed last week that in one of the cases of one of the most serious crimes in the first instance, the court issued an acquittal judgment, but I cannot agree with the argument that most of the most serious crimes end with an acquittal or statute of limitations. Well, first of all, it might be a bit of an obsessive thing. As a matter of fact, it is most common in district courts because district courts are working with the less severe to say so, the crimes against which the lower penalty is at risk and therefore the limitation period is much shorter. For there to be no misunderstanding, I must immediately say that, of course, in such cases, there is also a lapse in criminal matters, such as the defeat of the rule of law, if there are really no objective reasons for this. As far as I go to the District Courts, I am interested everywhere in what is the situation with regard to statutes of limitations, and if we leave a few cases on a case-by-case basis - when it comes to, say, the inaccessibility of the accused to the court when there is no one in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and otherwise it is not possible to trace him when he goes, say, even in cases where the perpetrators were foreigners and the transfer of prosecutions to another country has not been carried out - there are cases of obsolescence only in those courts where they are still very burdened with work. I have already talked about the situation in the courts, there are a lot of district courts that are relatively currently in control of the case and there is no reason, in fact, to depreciate at the expense of the fact that the court simply did not work hard enough on the case. Also in all efforts to modernise the Slovenian judiciary, we stress - and experts as well as foreign experts point out - the need for a concentrated handling of cases is also one of the reasons why sometimes there is an obsolescence when, for example, during individual proceedings, it is also partly due to the possibility of avoiding the court to then become obsolete. In any case, one of the measures, in such cases - I do not say very rich but certainly, regardless of the most serious crimes - has become less obsolete, is also one of the changes in the law on criminal proceedings recently adopted, namely the introduction of a so-called criminal order. This criminal order allows the court to deal relatively quickly with certain simpler, less dangerous criminal cases. So, of course, this can be an additional contribution to the fact that the courts will deal with all that they face. The second is the question of acquittals. I cannot agree with the fact that it is the majority of those who are exonerated, by no means. I would not repeat any figures, but the annual report of the Public Prosecutor's Office gives a detailed picture of the number or percentage of convictions in cases where the prosecution is on the prosecution's side. This percentage is sometimes over 90, which is already a very high percentage, as we cannot assume in a democratic country that the seizure of the prosecution in a court of law will be 100 per cent. Because of this, such a view, if it is largely to end this with forgiveness, has no basis in reality. On the other hand, in individual cases which are resounding and which are also causing resentment, it is important to take into account that it is a long process, predestination and criminal procedure, and, above all, we want to regulate the criminal procedure by means of a new law on criminal procedure, which is already being prepared by the university, so that these options are significantly less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick, an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I could ask a lot more in this regard, but you didn't want to answer my question about the Attorney General. Can you answer that, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u204	Well, I got in some trouble with time, didn't avoid that part of the question. It is simply that the Prosecutor, as a state authority representing the State in the prosecution of the perpetrator of the crime, is obliged to do whatever is necessary to ensure that the prosecution is effective. Of course, not contrary to the rights that a suspect or accused person has in criminal proceedings. I did not detect any signs of the prosecution avoiding the execution of such an application. Of course, the external observer, especially if we follow certain criminal procedures only through public newspapers, may at times be asked the question of whether and in the most effective way possible. However, as I mentioned earlier, each criminal procedure begins at a very early stage, including by securing evidence, with all the activities that are within the competence of the various authorities and which may be more or less carried out in a qualitative manner. In some types of crimes, this is also linked to very specific expertise; I mean, say, economic crime. In these areas, a number of initiatives are being taken to coordinate the work of all national authorities covering this area in one way or another. That on the other hand, expertise is also being exploited where there is a way to make this persecution as effective as possible. At the end of the day, a centre for the prosecution was also established, which was supposed to be the core of such expertise. In short, efforts are being made in this direction in order, of course, to empower all actors in the criminal procedure to carry out their tasks as effectively as possible. There's so much to say on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u205	Mr. Cimperman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Another question on the subject of drought. I am, however, asking the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. As a result of climate change, the last years of drought have been increasingly threatening agriculture and thus food processing. To a large number of farmers and other farmers, this is the only source of income. Looks like this is going to be a pretty big turnout this year. But if the droughts join the storm, it'll be a disaster. I ask, Mr Minister: How does the Ministry intend to help farmers and other food producers if the dry seasons continue in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u207	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you so much for asking. Now, in general, the original responsibility lies with the Ministry, which I run myself. Currently, regulation of the possibilities for action and life under the new agricultural policy - to this end, we shall distribute approximately 30 billion subsidies, other direct payments and investment support in one or another form; this year, of course, which is one beautiful and decent amount, as well as a contribution to rural development and to the conservation of treated land and the production of safe food. However, in this particular case, I must also agree with your conclusion that we are obviously also witnessing climate change. These climate changes certainly also require a change in the range, a change in the search for new resistant varieties of agricultural plants, perhaps even some of the older ones that we have abandoned once for lower production, including, of course, additional agritechnical measures, to reduce the evaporation of soil moisture, even such measures are possible. In this direction it is also necessary to search, think.In this context it is a key part of our efforts. The key issue is also the construction of irrigation systems, we have some of them, and they need to be maintained well. The new irrigation systems, as has already been said, according to the European system, make sense of the common European space and economic justification for certain cultures - especially gardening, perhaps some fruiting and other forms that are economically transferable. Slovenia went through a serious national irrigation project years ago, then part of the project withdrew, and part of it is still being implemented. For such a serious project, if we want to meet the needs of cultures that bear the economic costs of irrigation, we would need an investment of around 6-7 billion tolars every year, if we want something minimal, but do something serious. Of course, these resources will need to be found and collected. I am afraid that this will be difficult to deliver in all the debate and in all those, such and other priorities that this country has in particular at the transition to the European Union. We will work as hard as we can, but we will probably count on it to the extent that it would be good to carry out a irrigation project, almost impossible during this period. Perhaps in the next period, when we adapt the system slightly to the European system and when the European Union takes over most of the payments for the common agricultural policy, about what I said earlier: subsidies, investments, other direct payments. Insurance. The idea of a mutual insurance company is still alive, and some funds are allocated within the Ministry of Implementation. The problem is double. First, that the mutual insurance company absolutely and urgently needs another, at least one, from commercial insurance companies involved in this project. All calculations show that only mutual insurance, without the participation of a commercial insurance undertaking and without the so-called risk fund of agriculture, would be a business lost in advance or a project that would be financially bankrupt immediately in its start. What am I trying to say? For the life of such a mutual insurance company where people pay an insurance premium, which is actually very non-profit, this institution is very non-profit and in fact the majority is for the payment of risks, of course someone has to do the job, is impossible without the risk fund of agriculture. This means that in this case, a certain part of the money, one part of the money that is regularly covered for the costs of natural disasters - droughts and the like - should be allocated a priori to this risk fund and this risk fund would be spent and used if necessary. In recent years, it would obviously be almost - that every year is necessary, but for those years, when it was not, that money would stay there and be destined for next year or the founder could spend it in any other way. In short, we need to set up a risk fund and probably at least a third of the regular disbursements for these purposes should go to this risk fund and some commercial insurance company involved in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Puksic has the floor. Mr. Puksich! Could you please turn Mr. Pukšič on?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have two questions and I'd like to ask them together, so I'd like to ask you if you can take my time together. First question to the Minister of the Interior. In May, this year, a bill on road safety was drafted. This proposal provides that the current administrative tasks managed by the administrative units - the registration of motor vehicles - would be carried out by companies in the future. It's a transfer from the state to the private sphere. A comparative review of the issue of driving and traffic licences in the European Community countries prepared by the research sector of the National Assembly shows that the European Union countries provide these administrative tasks mainly within their national administration via the police, or local administrations. The exception is only Austria. However, no State shall leave this to legal or natural persons. The question is: For what reasons does the Ministry of the Interior want to transfer the performance of state administrative tasks to the private sector, although there is no comparable practice in the European Union for such arrangements? Does the Ministry of the Interior cooperate with the Ministry of Finance when laws are adopted which would result in a reduction in budgetary revenues? Taxi. Did the Ministry of the Interior inform the Minister of Finance that a billion dollars less revenue from administrative fees was expected to come into the state budget last year? How much less will the revenue of the state budget be from the administrative fees for registration of motor vehicles this year? Ter: Why did the Ministry of the Interior allow the technical inspection companies themselves to determine when to register vehicles, how much administrative fees they would spend and how much they would charge for their services? There is another question for the Minister of the Interior. Why the Ministry of the Interior does not sign with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia a contract in which the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia would obtain data in the same manner as those obtained by commercial insurance companies If such an agreement or contract had been signed, the health deficit in the health insurance company would have been reduced by several billion, but would, of course, have gone to the detriment of commercial insurance companies. The second question is addressed to the Secretary-General of the Government. In view of the fact that in this country, we often point out the problem of the unemployed and those affected in this national assembly. The fact is that a few percent of citizens receive - a smaller number, below 10 - more than 60% of the total income. And the fact is, more than 50% of citizens live on the brink of poverty. This is why I proposed last year as a member of Kviaz, and it was also decided that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should provide a review of the criteria for the allocation of individual rights by 30 September 2002 [[Mobile phones, service vehicles, representative funds, apartment, insurance, credit cards and other]] for government and other state officials and leading persons in companies where the majority ownership is of the country. On 11.7.2002 this decision of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs was therefore sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time. There was no response until October 17th. That is why President Kviaz sent a letter and received a reply from the government only on 19 November, in which you informed Kviaz that you only had the apartment code you had attached and informed the members of Kviaz about the regulation on the use of service cars. You have received this letter again on 10 December, with which President Kviaza reminds you that he thanks you for your reply, but at the same time requests that you take into account that you do not fully respond to the decision taken by the 28th meeting of the Commission of the National Assembly. Your answer was -- and now it's hard not to say it, but I won't -- very insulting not to say what I meant. You replied: "You regret the precise answer to your extensive question we cannot provide. However, let me point out that together with letter 19.11, all the annexes we have were sent to you." So you have an apartment policy, and you share these apartments by your own way, and you share the rules on the use of service vehicles. I am further asking you, or calling for this answer, to also concern the directors of agencies, fund managers, directors of public institutions, as this has also been meant by government officials. At the same time, let this answer the question of the awards of these people who are involved in capital gains, in the participation or management of supervisory councils, and in the awards of contracted managers with secret contracts, such as the case of Elan. Thank you so much for all your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We'd like to ask Mr Bohintz first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u212	I thank you for both questions, although one has been announced alone, and this has been announced in a different context. However, I will try to answer the second question first. There is no reservation to enter into a contract with a health insurance company. Professional coordination has been ongoing in this regard for some time. If we had announced this in advance, I would have prepared and collected the latest information on how far we are by signing this Treaty. I think - and this I have already stated to the representatives of the insurance company in my personal interview - that there must be no different approaches in relation to commercial insurance or health insurance. That way, I don't see any serious objections and things are going to work out. As for the first question, the first question was in writing what would happen to local offices and information offices if things were transferred to private concessionaires. I have therefore prepared an answer more in terms of policy towards the local offices and information offices of the Ministry. In 43 administrative units 79 information offices and 114 local offices of different types operate. In addition to issuing driving licences, he carries out a number of other tasks, in particular tasks related to personal status, extracts from home books, from personal households, residence certificates, not to mention travel documents, identity cards, not even to say that they conclude marriages on one of the administrative units, etc. To speak of the concept of supporting the local offices of information offices in any way being threatened by the transfer of registration procedures to private concessionaires is not a reflection of the true understanding of this matter. In short, the Ministry is in favour. Once the Government has adopted a regulation on organisation and systematisation, this Regulation provides for the issuance of a specific regulation concerning local offices of information offices, where we will lay down rules or criteria to create only - these and, of course, strengthen this form of search for the shortest possible route to citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that we are trying to simplify the registration procedures as much as possible in the current practice and also in the new road safety law as possible and to transfer them to as many operators as possible, including companies, for the same reason. For the first time, to burden the country with these administrative procedures, to reduce its functioning and to extend the range of those who do so and to bring this service closer to citizens and citizens. To what extent this concept will be implemented, it depends on the views taken in the previous debate on the road safety law. We have decided precisely for this reason, or this is one of three reasons, registration procedures, and in this regard a proposal for the creation of a specific public agency, which then confers powers on independent service organisations and companies. This is one of the three issues we intend to highlight in more detail in the preliminary debate on this law. We have decided consciously on the previous debate to see whether or not support has been given to these concepts. I will not talk about the second and third questions, but we will certainly have a preliminary look at this, and then there will also be an opportunity to face different developments in the various countries of the European Union. Then we'll put it on the scale of whether this concept is more rational, more efficient, more human-friendly. Only on this basis will we make a final decision. This means that the decision on this issue is not definitive, it goes to a preliminary verification and on this basis we will definitively decide what the previous debate will bring.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say that it would be very difficult to evaluate certain documents, letters that simply sum up facts as offensive. Furthermore, I must say that we do not count among public officials in any way and cannot count the directors of public institutions and public enterprises. I am saying this because I want to say precisely that there is simply some rule that would regulate the issue of the use of cars, telephones and similar matters in a single way for public institutions and public companies simply not in this country. However, it was not only these documents that were mentioned that were delivered to the national assembly. The National Assembly or the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs has also received other acts regulating salaries. If I list them, most of these are also published in official lists, these are the decisions on the criteria for the conclusion of contracts for the employment of directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds; the decision on the criteria for determining the basic salary and the criteria for the payment of the performance prizes of undertakings, agencies and funds of which the Republic of Slovenia is the founder; the decision on recommendations to representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in supervisory boards of companies of which the Republic of Slovenia is the majority owner of the contract of employment; the decision on the criteria for establishing meetings and other receipts of members of supervisory boards in public undertakings which are also in majority ownership; and the decision amending the decision on the criteria for meetings. Since 1997, the government has been trying to regulate the issue of contracts for the employment of directors of public enterprises, agencies and funds. This is also somehow uniform in the range between 50% and 90% of the salary of the minister. The criteria for the classification of salaries based on this range were laid down by the Commission for Human Resources and Administrative Affairs. The main criteria are the size and importance of the legal person, with the size of the salary with a weight of 70 to 80, while the importance of the legal person with a weight of 20 to 30. It is also laid down that the Director has the right only to an allowance for working hours, at the level laid down by the collective agreement for other employees. With the exception of the one-year annual award, no other right shall be conferred on the Director under the contract. The same is true for the salaries of directors in companies owned by a majority of the country. Here the formula for determining the director's salary is somewhat more complex, including the formulas applicable to management contracts in the economy at all. This is why we also share these companies or public companies in size, with some arithmetical middle of the average wage in the industry and the like; this is calculated on the basis of different multiples, depending on how large the company is. These quoted recommendations are used to determine the payment of the salaries of directors of all companies owned by the State and are not applicable to the determination of the remuneration of directors of companies owned by Holding Slovenian Power Plants. I mention this today because, earlier, Member Rokavec has just pointed out the size of wages in these companies. They receive a salary of 90% of the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy's salary. It further points out that the new Law on Public Sector Salaries, which does not yet apply in this part, lays down similar criteria for determining wages and other rewards for the future. Then it also points to the Government's conclusion, because, like you, we have also found that some of these criteria, which are relatively clear, and despite the recommendations that members of the supervisory boards should apply in these public companies, but in some cases there are wage fixings that are higher than the criteria so defined. That is why the government has actually adopted two sets of issues. One decision requires the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior and the Government Staff Service to prepare by the end of June this year a comparative analysis of wage policies for the public and private sectors, where a particular emphasis should be given to the analysis of the differences between the highest and lowest wages and the amounts of prizes paid to members of the administration and the supervisory councils. The second decision adopted last week, however, also calls for the overwinding of these criteria, because economic development, privatisation on individual segments, especially banking, and anything else to mention, has nevertheless led to some changes in recent years, which must also be reflected through the overheating of the criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u215	Mr Puksic has an additional question. Can you turn it off, Mr. Bandell?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u216	Mr. Bandle has an additional question. Mr Bandelj, I ask you whether I will get specific answers to these specific questions. What you have just said at the same time, of course, you have acknowledged that some directors do not respect and that some things are outside the box. Of course, it's called corruption, it's a crime. If the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs of the National Assembly has not received an answer, I request, as a member of the National Assembly, that I receive specific answers to the question raised. Some of these can be read from newspapers, but only one column that talks about gross personal income, but does not talk about credit cards, insurance, Namreč apartments, even apartments are in some of the privileges of government officials and so on. [[…]] We know that state apartments are owned by those who are not state officials, but are only members of a party. I ask Mr Bohintz about that other work. It is true that the issue of that contract with the Health Insurance Office was not raised, but in that Article the conditions are substantially different for the Health Insurance Institute than for commercial insurance companies. And of course that's not acceptable. I hope that by next month, the next question will be resolved. However, as regards the first part, the question raised was also raised in the sense of the question raised. The fact is, Mr Minister, that by transferring and thereby releasing considerable money from taxes and spilling into the private private sphere, certain benefits will be removed for citizens and citizens who have now been carried out by information offices and local offices. They have distributed these companies, private companies, but of course they do these registrations in a larger area one or two. This means that the matter is concentrating. That's bad twice. For the first time because the state budget loses fees, and for the second time because citizens will pay no less, but lose this opportunity of course to do so without having to stand in line again for a few hours – personally I have also had such an experience that it is necessary to wait there now substantially longer than it has been necessary before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Bandell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I must stress once again that, of course, you can't get acts on the use of cars, apartments and I don't know what else for directors of public institutions and public companies, because they simply aren't. We can't give them to you because they're gone. I've made that clear enough. Second. With regard to the officials, however, you have received all the acts, including the apartment policy, which clearly shows who and who and how the apartment belongs to. Of course, I have to deny the thesis immediately so that someone who is a member of a political party can get it. It is true that these dwellings, which are state-owned, are also occupied by people who are not in the civil service, but it is true that they were acquired at the time before the entry into force of the 1991 or 1992 housing law, in October when they had a permanent or permanent lease or housing right and are derived from these names. And I have to deny it, and of course I can't give you any rules on this topic because it's not there. It's simple, there's no insurance for officials, and we just can't give you an act like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you. Would you like Mr. Bohinc? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u220	With regard to other questions concerning the health insurance situation, I propose because it has not been predetermined in advance to provide you with written information on how the negotiations, when they were concluded, or on what terms and conditions will be concluded. As for the first question. This project involves not only the Ministry of Finance but also other ministries. Financial calculations have also been carefully worked out in the proposal for a legal project for prior treatment, and there must be no way that this approach would lead to any leakage of state money into, as you said, a private sphere. Nor did I happen to reduce the network of providers of administrative services of this type, but it must increase. If this does not happen, that is the plan in this concept, and this plan has failed and will not be confirmed. The issue is that the network is increasing, that there are more administrative services and that this is at least financially neutral. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u221	Thank you. The next question will be raised by Dr. Bajuk. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u222	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request that a debate be held in the National Assembly on the questions raised by Mr Bandl.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u223	Your proposal will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow at the vote. Dr. Bajuk will now raise the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is a very nice greeting to the Minister, to all the ministers who are still insisting, also to the Minister, who is saying good-bye. My question is addressed to the honourable Minister of Justice, Mr Ivo Bizjak. I assume you have listened to the problems dealt with by Slovenian judges at this year's meeting. I estimate that among them, at least the public concerned, particular attention has been given to regulating the disciplinary and moral responsibility of judges in our country, compared with some other countries. One of the participants in this meeting, that would be Judge Janez Novak, pointed out the following, quote: "The judicial branch of authority must be able to exclude from its own ranks those judges who are not capable, worthy or willing to act fully in accordance with the principles of judicial service if it is to achieve the highest degree of credibility in society." He further noted that in Slovenia, taking into account certain comparative arrangements, judicial responsibility should be added. In Slovenia, judges know only legal responsibility, but not moral responsibility, when determining disciplinary responsibility. He felt that the definition of judicial responsibility could find what he called five difficulties, if I quickly sum them up. Judges do not have clearly defined disciplinary violations. So the question is, who are they? Another time. Judges don't have a code of court ethics. At the same time, they do not have a defined moral responsibility. Third time. Disciplinary proceedings are complex and should be simpler when ensuring all the rights of judges, bearing in mind that judges are responsible under specific stricter criteria. Fourth time. Sanctions in the judicial disciplinary procedure can be avoided by the use of formal procedures, which therefore requires a better solution, i.e. upgrade. And a fifth. In the case of judicial protection of judges, legal remedies should be more adapted to international judicial documents. Mr Minister, my question is: Do you think that your ministry has any duty or task in regulating these five embarrassments of judicial responsibility as quickly as possible? If so, what would be your contribution, and when will it be realized? Let me explain that when I ask this question, I am deeply aware that justice is a self-sustaining branch of government, which must take care of itself, not only to judge by principles and dependence and legality, but also to carry out its tasks as effectively and effectively as possible. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] If you'll excuse me, just one moment. In the fact that we, as in all other countries, have at least a formal allocation of resources to the judiciary in the budget, I can say that the legislative authority of taxpayers also has at least some responsibility for the successful and effective functioning of the judiciary. In my opinion, however, the effectiveness of the courts is also very much linked to regulating the disciplinary and moral responsibility of judges. Therefore, I do not think that I am interfering with an independent judiciary with my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u226	Mr President, Mr President, Mr Bajuk. On the days of the Slovenian judiciary, unfortunately, I could not be present all the time, so I could not listen to the above-mentioned reference. This is a period of meetings between different judicial officials, so this is a certain limit. Of course, such implementation is also very interesting for the ministry. In the first place, I absolutely sign that first quote that it is necessary for only the judiciary within itself to clear up those who are in fact mishandling their profession. If we focus on determining responsibility or ensuring accountability, the disciplinary procedure is only one of the procedures in which the judges are. I'd like to mention at least two other aspects. It is also necessary to mention an assessment of the judicial service which has as one of the possible consequences, if negative, including the termination of the judicial function. The same is true of the strictest sanction of this type in the disciplinary procedure. And there is something else that I think is also important and which is within the judiciary itself, the official supervision introduced by the last amendment of the Law on Judicial Service last year, which also allows all those acts aimed at determining the fulfilment of the duties of the judge and the conduct which is consistent with those obligations. These are, therefore, two other forms that must not be completely ignored when we speak of the exercise of the responsibility of judges. Of course, that is the most radical form of discipline itself. First of all, I must say that, in my mandate, we have already completed the Judicial Service Act on the provisions of the disciplinary procedure. It is precisely because of the dissatisfaction of some that these provisions were previously too clearly defined and that disciplinary procedures should therefore not be possible or at least not effective. Of course, I will look with interest at what specific arguments Judge Novak, if I hear correctly, is arguing these five difficulties. Infringements are listed, 27 worse and lighter infringements are listed in, I think, Section 81 of the Judicial Service Act. If the very definitions of individual infringements are unclear, this should be reviewed. On the other hand, the procedure was duly regulated in such a way that it was not possible to challenge the sentence itself. This is a slightly more complex procedure, but there is an even greater risk of such a process falling due to procedural shortcomings in the appeal procedure for the protection of rights. To find individuals who come into such a process exploiting formal shortcomings is not surprising. It is a matter of experienced lawyers who do not resent trying to exploit any shortcomings in their behalf. But the question is -- and I intend to check that -- what are these arguments? To verify, therefore, on what basis is the finding of the said judge, that, for example, the law would allow for a number of such formal shortcomings in the proceedings. The current provisions are also made in cooperation with the judiciary, I think with some key experts. I will never claim that some existing state is the most attainable. For this reason, I also consider this issue an initiative to take a look at the current regulation from the point of view of this expert. If the analysis gives such a result that some things need to be completed, they would do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u227	Thank you very much. An additional question, Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Of course, I understand that if you were not present, you cannot have a certain knowledge of these very things that this judge then presented at this meeting. However, I would just like to insist that he spoke in particular about moral responsibility and a code of ethics which should work on the basis of what other courts in other countries know and take into account the independence of the judiciary throughout its dimension. I would also like to say that I do not agree with you that exploitation, as I would say, of these formal procedures - seems questionable to me. I certainly understand that a lot of people want to make use of this, but the use of this by a judge is totally unacceptable in my opinion. And if there's no other way, the law or some ethical code should put an end to this. This is also an initiative, certainly an initiative. I hope that you will also report to the National Assembly what your conclusions will be on the basis of this initiative when you review these matters. There are many things that could be added to our judicial system if we took seriously the elimination of these five hindrances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u230	Just for a little while, if you don't mind. There'll be no misunderstanding. I did not mean the exploitation of formalities in proceedings, in some unethical way, in a way that would not come to the judge; that, of course, could even be contrary to or could constitute any of those 27 infringements. However, it is simply that if a person has legal options, to take advantage of those given to him, of course, there cannot be something unacceptable in itself if they are in accordance with the rules. I would like to propose or undertake to examine this contribution in order to identify ourselves in certain proposals and also to provide this in writing as a response to your question as soon as possible. It would then possibly follow, if assessed, also action in terms of changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u231	Thank you very much. One last question, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all of you who have insisted on the final question. The question is interesting and painful, burning for many of our citizens. If I wasn't too dry, I'd back up the question with one case. In 1999, i.e. four years ago, it will soon be four years ago, the bankruptcy of Automontaža Bus in Ljubljana was committed in court. At that time, 550 workers were fired. For several months thereafter, the amount or claims of these workers to Automontage were calculated in bankruptcy. Here I have a photocopy of one of these 550 workers, which was calculated at the time that Automontage was responsible for part of unpaid gross wages in the period 1995-1998 3 million 700 tolars, from a retirement charge which, of course, he did not receive when he was fired, a million 900 thousand, unpaid regressions, between 1995 and 1998, Automontage owed him 423 thousand and then in the last 7 months he did not get his gross salary, which amounts to an additional million 100 thousand. It was then fully calculated together with interest, normal interest, 9 million 200,000. He owes one of the 550 retired Automontage workers for the period 1995-1999. Now what? The problem is that four years of bankruptcy is still at a dead end. All the equipment - machines, devices, tools - was sold a long time ago. The bankruptcy team sits tight, maybe 5 minutes, 1 hour a day, and pulls heavy cash. The question is, Can this country help to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u233	The question was addressed to the Minister and to the Minister. Now please, Madam Minister, if I may have an answer in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Even in the interview with the Member of Parliament, it has been shown that this question is not, in fact, that I will not be able to answer as the Member is likely to. I can only say that the procedures for compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation of companies do not belong to our ministry, but belong to the Ministry of Justice. As the issue of bankruptcy also arises as a problem for small businesses, we have already put forward a proposal to bring about a novelty of the legal provisions governing bankruptcy procedures and also forced settlement in our circumstances. However, without cooperation and readiness for the justice ministries, it is impossible to enforce, but I think we will reach an agreement here, and in this context we will change these procedures, which are truly long-lasting, long-lasting. We are also warned, not only in this case, by creditors, but mainly by medium and small enterprises, how much they lose in this process and how long the cleaning of businesses lasts. That's all you can do on my side.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u235	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u236	Thank you. I think the question is very appropriate. It is also clear what the Minister has already said that it covers a number of issues that you have brought together on a particular case. Surely one issue concerns the legislative part, which is the law on bankruptcy, forced settlement and liquidation. I believe that, in fact, what you said is necessary to resolve these issues more quickly. These are, of course, economic operators and the practical claims that employees have as a rule from their working relationship, and, of course, the question is how to recover these claims in some way. I must say that such and similar cases led the country to set up a guarantee fund in 1997, which was later granted a maintenance fund. The Guarantee Fund should at least partially mitigate such issues that have arisen. It is essentially that the guarantee fund is now liable for unpaid payments, such as regressions, then wages and some other benefits for the last three months prior to bankruptcy. This is a question relating to insolvency of economic operators and the like. In this particular case, of course, part of the claim was made before 1997. Thus, the law, which introduced the guarantee and then the maintenance fund, probably did not cover the work of these claims in some way. That's the first part. Part two, if you remember the debate on the labour law, we also had a discussion with your parliamentary group and your parliamentary group, through Mr Viszak, tabled an amendment around the limitation of claims. That is to say, claims over five years of age are only obsolete. The solution was first adopted for three years and was then extended to ensure that the labour claims did not lapse. In particular, we had an interview with Mr Novak, or the Supreme Judge, on how to interpret practically when a claim from a working relationship is established. Here we have now found a certain interpretation with the Supreme Court. In particular, it is said that there are some issues that I think are quicker, and some have been more slowly resolved as part of the legislative process. In this particular case, we have looked at what is happening to these people. According to our records, it was 507 people who filed certain claims for claims made on the basis of unpaid salaries, regress, transportation costs. At least 497 employees were authorised under the Guarantee Fund. All together, the assets that the State had allocated to the economic operator as a payment of claims amounted to 140 million. That's from our records. More specifically, I do not know the case of this employee. However, if any exists, it is likely that in conjunction with the three ministries, we could also respond more specifically to this issue of individual protection, an individual or individual employee from a working relationship.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you very much. That's an extra question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u238	Certainly not an issue that would have been raised on the shoulders of the Ministry of the Economy alone. It must also be about the social problems of these people and the question of the rule of law or the question of whether this country is really legal and social. However, it must also be said that it is not a share company, that it is a d.o.o., that the bankruptcy manager has been appointed by the State, that the owner of this company is still a country and that it could be taken to the end of this matter long ago. This is said by the acquaintances of this situation and there is a legitimate fear that, of course, the company would be placed in such an artificial way in an extremely poor economic situation and then sold for small money, buyers have been waiting for several years, even in the towers, who would be the buyer of such valuable parcels that are there at such a good location along the highway, and that, of course, at such rich prices and procedures as we are accustomed to in our economy, then the purchase could cover only mortgage claims and employees would be wiped out well under our noses. That's what they say in the towers, in people who know these things a little more than I do. I would just like to point out that, in fact, the responsibility of the government as a whole is here and that ministries have to work as a team and that, since it is not just the case of this worker, it is a larger number, and it is also cases elsewhere in Slovenia. I think that's a bad sign for this government, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-16-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody]] . Then we're done with this point. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume tomorrow at ten o'clock.
