ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, and representatives of the government! I begin the continuation of the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained from today's session and cannot be attended by Members and Members: Bogdan Barovič, Franc Čebulj, Ljubo Germič, Roman Jakič, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Master Blaž Kavčič and Alojz Peterle. We're moving on to 10. TIME OF DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON LIQUID VEHICLES FOR THE TRANSPORT OF PERSONS The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the representative of the Government the floor to further explain the bill. The representatives of the government at this meeting are Master Matjaž Knez, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, and your name is [[...]] [[Voice in the background]] Gorazd Bedritz. [[...]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! In drafting the bill, we pursued the goal of regulating the area as comprehensively as possible, not just to solve technical problems, but to try to look at things as wide as possible for such important areas as cable devices. The starting points we were following are that the current law on cableways and tractors was adopted in 1981, completed in 1986 and completed in 1991. In the meantime, of course, there have been many legal and technical changes and the environment in which we live has changed. We have been following the difficulties of the operators involved in the construction, maintenance and management of cableway devices, and increasingly the problems that individual landowners face where these cableway devices are also located. We believe that inadequate legal solutions in law do not allow for the proper development of this important activity, both transport and tourism. Many local communities could achieve better development results by regulating this area. We are aware, however, that the sensitivity of the space in which such devices are installed must also be traced in the development of the cable activity. Cable devices constitute a major intervention into space and are therefore defined by the proposal for a law as being of national importance. The proposed law is based on two types of concession: a concession for construction and a concession for public economic services. Due to the limited nature of the goods and locations where such devices can be installed and the negative experience of the past, the law clearly describes the procedure for the installation and operation of the cableway device. The law consists of 9 chapters, these are general provisions which define the public interest in the construction of cableways. In Article 2, we are talking about the safety of the construction of the cableway devices, which is mainly a technical part that speaks of the precise conditions for the design and installation of such a device. The third part is intended for concessions for the construction of the cableway device - this is probably the most important part of this law, in this part all the procedures necessary to obtain the concession, which is the condition for construction. The fourth part of the law describes the construction of cableway devices, in the fifth part of the public service of public transport by cableway. This law also allows the local community to define the public interest, it is said, the public interest in passenger traffic through such a cableway. The sixth part of the Act describes the safety of the operation of cableway devices, the seventh inspection, criminal provisions and transitional provisions. The transitional provisions are particularly important, as it will also be necessary for existing cable devices to obtain at least the appropriate document, which is said to include a concession for operation. We believe that the proposed law is essential in helping to resolve the uncoordinated or, in fact, the uncoordinated situation in this area and will contribute to the great development potential of this activity in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you for this introductory explanation. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, as its parent working body, has considered the draft law and I ask the member of this Committee, Leopold Kremjar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. As has been said, the Committee has discussed the proposal of this law. We are familiar with the reasons for the adoption of this law - the depreciation of existing legislation and the adoption of the acquis of the European Union - and at the same time with the difficulties of the operators of cable devices in the construction, maintenance, operation and safety of cableway installations. In the past, most of the problems in the construction of these facilities have been in the production of land for these purposes. It is therefore stipulated in the bill that, due to the exceptional location of the cableway installations and to the extent that there is no consensus between the investor and the landowner, an institution may also be established to decommit or restrict property rights on the property required for the construction of these installations and other facilities. A concession is provided for the construction of a cableway device in which all the conditions, how the cableway device is built, during which period it can operate, and how the device is removed after the end of its lifetime if it does not apply for replacement construction at the same location. The safety requirement for the construction of cableway installations and the way and safety of operation are summarised in accordance with the requirements of the European directives governing cableway installations for the transport of persons. In the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, particular attention was paid to the question of the definition of public interest in the construction of cableway installations and the question of the delimitation or limitation of property rights in cases where the concessionaire fails to conclude this contract within 30 days of the award of the contract for the acquisition of property rights, building rights or services for the public benefit of the concessionaire. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted the amendments of Mr Dusan Vukko for the new 35.a, 35.b and 35.c. and adopted its amendments, and such a proposal also proposes to the State Assembly for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much for this report. The following is a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups: Alojz Sok will present the position of Nova Slovenije. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u6	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The main problem in the adoption of this law is not the security reasons or that a new law should be adopted because of the need for greater security. In a comprehensive explanation of this law, the applicant says and ensures that safety is satisfactory on our cableways. So the unresolved problem is in decommissioning procedures when it comes to the construction of new cable systems or the management of existing skis. This kind of legislation is in us comparable European countries, it is said that EU Member States have been resolved, as the proposalr put it, in railway laws. This already says that if these issues are resolved in the Railways Act, we will have some unique case of solutions in Slovenia, when we will adopt a law on cableways for this area and then otherwise in this law, as in the Law on Spatial Planning, we will regulate the Institute of Dismantling. Well, that's also a key question. It is therefore crucial whether the compulsory limitation of property rights falls under this law beyond the law on the regulation of premises. The Law on the regulation of premises provides precisely when a limitation of property rights may occur. It says that a country or a local community can do so if it needs land to build economic infrastructure or if it needs land to build or build public institutions in the field of public services such as health, education, education, culture, science, research and social protection. The law then provides for redundancies for the defence of the state, then for state reserves, for the security of citizens. Now, in this case, we are extending this right with some special law, and this is certainly contrary to the law on space regulation. It is to be expected, of course, because this law will also represent a conflict of interest, that, in addition to having our courts overburdened by disputes, we will obviously move to international courts in the future of these disputes in the area of the Slovenian State, and that is why we will also show how we are adopting inappropriate legislation in our country. In New Slovenia we do not agree with this way of solving this problem. We believe that the law on space regulation should apply primarily to this area, even though, for example, the Minister of Environment and Space speaks on the ground - he recently stated at a meeting with the mayors of Halo and Medieval municipalities that the law on the regulation of space is in vain. We know who proposed it, we know who passed the law on space regulation, and the minister walks around Slovenia saying that the law sucks. So, I read this in the newspaper work on Friday. Of course, he did not forget to mention that the law was so badly written by the opposition. So I thought today Mr Minister would be with us so that I could also ask him about this, because this law is linked to the law on space regulation. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] I will stop, Mr President, and I ask you to ensure, in the course of the debate, silence and order in the Chamber, that Members do not disturb me here before me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u7	I think you may have made your point. Thanks for that. Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and viewers! In view of the large number of amendments already adopted on the parent’s working body, at least two things can be identified. First of all, it is a complex content of the law, where many interests are intertwined. And secondly, the Slovenians are really a ski nation. Well, joke aside. This is a matter that requires appropriate legal arrangements, since the current Law on cableways and tractors has been passed since 1981 and has only been amended in 1986 and 1992. As the applicant states, the major legal and technical changes that have taken place following the adoption of the law require the adoption of a new law, as it does not allow the regulation and development of the area of cableways and skis. In short, it has been overrun by time and that is why in the Party of Young Slovenia we are inclined to adopt a new law, but today's proposal is not substantively appropriate. For cable devices it is typical that they benefit only for the investor, while they can only be placed in rare, exceptional locations. The cable infrastructure is built for the purpose of carrying out the tourist activity and is therefore part of the tourist infrastructure. Tapa is not always welcome to the locals. More. In practice, it can also cover up to twenty and more parcels of various owners who want their peace or their rights. At the same time, this infrastructure also has a negative impact on the environment, especially in a negative sense. Together, these two suggest that it is necessary to seek the right line between public and private interest and that the controversy on the committee has also made this clear. The problem of the concession of legal interest and, to an extreme extent, even leniency has justifiably caused a lot of excitement. So much excitement should also be caused by environmental issues. It considers that the concession for cableways is introduced because of their economic importance on the one hand and the importance of interference with the natural environment on the other. In connection with cableways, not only does direct benefit the investor, but it can also benefit the general or public. That is why we support this solution in the law. However, we do not support the possibility that because of the exceptional location and the fact that sometimes it is difficult for an investor to obtain the necessary real estate on the entire route of the cableway, it would just be spoiled. Discharge is also envisaged in some comparable Alpine countries, but is not used. It is therefore pointless and unacceptable for Slovenia to intervene after this extreme asset. Because we believe that the law will not bring better conditions for the construction and safe operation of cableway devices, because it interferes too strongly with the property rights of citizens and does not protect the environment, we will not support the law in the Party of Young Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u9	Mr Lenko has the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Government Representative! Colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a law, as presented by the government, needed to be largely addressed, namely, by the Committee over 50 of its amendments. It may also be due to the introduction of newer legal institutes and the mistrust that develops in the face of news. Nevertheless, we insist that the law, as it is in the procedure, along with the amendments adopted by the Committee and which I hope we will also adopt in the National Assembly, is needed - the necessary incentives to develop the areas which the current solution hampers and the development of tourism is both in the interest of the local community and in the interest of the State. It has given the highest priority to the regulation of dispossession or limitation of property rights. The most frequently connected cable devices are skis, although not just skis. In the past, it has been true to acquire land for cable devices, which are, of course, a prerequisite for regulating skis, quite a problem. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we hope that the new law will solve problems. The cable devices represent the infrastructure of tourism, which develops the area that enjoys its presence. Of course, it should always be possible to seek consensus in connection with the construction of the cableways and to have the exercise or limitation of ownership as a last resort. However, we cannot expect that the construction of the building would not be carried out simply because of one landowner who could thereby endanger the wider interest and interest of others. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we consider it appropriate to introduce concessions in the area of cableways and it is necessary to provide for a solution if the investor is to be hampered in his work. This solution is a limitation on property rights, which, as has already been said, should be the last measure, but also essential if the investor is to undertake the construction of cableway devices at all. Without this option, there is a high probability that the interests of a potential investor will be less. The exercise or restriction of property rights is, of course, permissible only for the benefit of the public and provided that it is essential to achieve public benefit and that the public benefit of the extravagant purpose is proportionate to the intervention in private property. Some express fear that the proposed solution to the dissolution of precedents could possibly be adopted in other cases, but we believe that the solution to the bill is not controversial. Many safeguards that prevent abuse to abuse the notion of public interest, which certainly exists in this case. In order to ensure that the public interest in real estate is deemed to be manifest, property must be provided for in the State or municipal location plan and then public utility must be examined in the concession award process. Of course, we cannot go beyond the provisions governing the safety of cable devices. The fact that the state of safety on the cableways is good and that only one fatality on the cableways in the past 50 years, as we can read from the assessment of the state of affairs, does not mean that this area could be given time carefree. And in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons, we are pleased to note that the draft law satisfactorily regulates this area of security. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we agree that the law in force now needs thorough, thoughtful and long-term satisfactory changes. For the existing law contains outdated solutions that were the product of another time. For the development of tourism, for which cable installations will mostly be built, it is particularly important that the interests of the people living in the area of its influence, including those who come there, be satisfactorily addressed. We believe that the bill has a suitable solution if the amendments of the committee are to be adopted. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you. Jože Tanko, position of the Slovenian Democratic Party delegation. I'm not used to expressing myself properly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Take it easy, we'll learn that too. I welcome everyone. This law is once again one of those revolutionary laws of this authority, which, by its provisions, interfere exclusively with the rights of the owners of agricultural land and forests. We passed one of those laws yesterday, that's hunting law, that's another. The law lays down revolutionary provisions on land leaching, which are only slightly different from those of the past period, which has brought many injustices to many people, which are now only partially corrected. The law seeks to address the difficult situation in Slovenian ski resorts under the cover of adapting and taking over the European Union's acquis, with particular emphasis on the fact that the applicant has made a strong commitment to solving the problems of only one party, namely cable operators. He also presented this intention in his explanation. However, at least two are required for the dispute, in a particular case, there are disputes between cable operators and owners of agricultural land. As has already been said, the proposaler of the problem has gone very unilaterally, as the law in a very simplistic way makes it possible to solve the problems of purely cableway operators and completely neglects the rights, needs and wishes of landowners. The State and the municipality can declare on any agricultural area a public interest in the construction of cableway installations, either under the cover of the promotion and development of tourism and recreational activities, or the development of demographically threatened areas, or because of the more environmentally friendly use of space. Of course, it is clear that the public interest procedure is triggered by those who pursue exclusively personal economic and not public interest. This gives the possibility that those to whom the concession is granted also initiate a procedure to unilaterally determine the conditions for the conclusion of a lease or service contract. And in the event that the owner of these unilaterally determined and therefore also poor and exploitative terms of the offer does not accept within 30 days, the concessionaire may initiate a decommissioning procedure, without the owner being able to claim or receive a fair compensation under this law; that is to say, fair compensation for the land in question. A procedure is envisaged when the public interest identifies the building land and later permits construction operations. The owner shall be divulged by this procedure and shall be paid some compensation, possibly at the price of the agricultural land and forests fund. Then comes the new owner, this is the cable car, the entrepreneur, who will then cheerfully market the land and broadcast or sell it on purely other commercial terms. The law does not grant the owner any preferential right to obtain concessions or a right to resell the land which he will sell, or to purchase land that will be sold by the new owner, nor to qualify for replacement land, but for some it constitutes a primary activity. The Group proposed a number of amendments with which the public interest and the procedure for agreeing on the conditions are substantially more balanced, allowing for as much proper partnership or negotiation as possible in the proceedings. And even if no agreement is reached, at least more normal decommissioning procedures and appropriate compensation are possible. We are therefore proposing a better regulation of the relationship between the candidate and the concessionaire and the elimination of many inconsistencies between the applicant. In the event that such supplements are not accepted, there is also a serious risk that a constitutional dispute will also be triggered, which will only prolong these poor conditions and the agony of our ski slopes. I must say that our Group does not favour such solutions as are proposed in the law. And if our amendments are not accepted, we will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you. Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. And a nice hello to everyone! In the UK Group, I think we can peacefully see that Slovenians can be identified anywhere and not only at home, but also through this activity. Of course, the conditions for the development of this activity are largely provided by cable devices. Therefore, this law is certainly one of those who can help to ensure that this traditional activity is maintained in the best possible way even in the future, because so far very much has been built and invested in the fact that this infrastructure even exists. Of course, much remains to be done, much to restore this infrastructure, or even to expand it to new locations or to existing ones. In short, it is certainly a matter of public interest, because the construction of cableway devices means, as stated in Article 1a, the promotion of both tourism development and recreational activities, economic, including general social development and, in particular, the possibility of developing less developed areas, i.e. demographically endangered areas. In short, it is an activity that can take place in both developed and underdeveloped areas. Of course, this broad interest is also evident among landowners, and we believe that it is precisely for the purpose of harmonising interests to be written in law that certain solutions can be extremely debauchery, but we do not think that there will be any such leniency in practice. We believe that every landowner should also be aware that, at the time of the construction plant, the value of this property is also significantly higher than that of the device until it was gone. So the starting points for negotiations between cable operators or investors and landowners are possible and, of course, here we are confident that if this law, as an extreme regulation, allows for decommissioning, this dialogue will be more constructive than it has been to date. For we find that many, including public funds, which have been invested in the last period, do not go back to the budget, nor do they return or allow the development of an individual place. It is therefore necessary to allow this contribution of public funds to be maintained or that the value of the public funds invested does not fall due to disputes or the non-recovery of these facilities. The very principle of law that says that for smaller ski resorts can grant concessions to municipalities, for larger, more demanding devices of course the country, is a suitable solution, because there is much interest in smaller places to build smaller devices and thus try to improve, I will say, the standard of life not to that area, but ultimately it also helps to identify and offer additional such smaller places. I believe that this law specifies precisely the possibility of granting concessions by the municipalities as well. Several times there has been a question in the period so far, why, for example, a municipality that does not build a ski resort or arrange a cable device, and on the other hand, we do not actually have a found interest by someone who knows and wants to market and perform afterwards with such a device, and here the municipality will be given the opportunity to determine this interest and, if there is such an interest, there will be procedures, both for those bound to spatial legislation and for those who are bound to grant a concession for construction. Thus, we believe that the law will really help to ensure that cable devices can be maintained and developed in the future, and that the tradition that has been recognized for many years in the field of skiing in Slovenia will also be more easily developed in the future. That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Malovr will present the position of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Members and Members, welcome. The cable infrastructure is built for tourist activities and therefore part of the tourist infrastructure. Its purpose is to allow conditions for the exercise of tourist activities. As a large proportion of the added value is in the composition of the tourism product unit, the state has decided to support the development of tourism at a strategic level. Wires are also part of the transport system of the Republic of Slovenia, at least in the part which means public passenger transport, which ensures accessibility to certain areas throughout the year. Since the existing legislation in this area is outdated and does not regulate the cable system in accordance with the European Union acquis, a new law was needed. The aim of the law is to harmonise existing legislation with the European legal order and to regulate the construction, operation, supervision and other activities relevant to this area. The bill was followed by solutions in the countries of the Alpine area and in the countries of the European Union. However, it has maintained those arrangements and solutions from the current legislation that have proved to be relevant and effective in practice. Thus, the law defines the safety of construction devices, the concession for the construction of cableways, the construction of cableways, the public service of public transport by means of cableway devices, the safety of operation of cableway devices and inspection and, lastly, the criminal and transitional provisions. According to the section on the construction of cableway installations, the law also specifies that property rights may be deducted against compensation or compensation in kind, meaning decommissioning, or limited by the right of use for a certain period, as well as by temporary or permanent service. The empowerment and restriction or burden of property rights shall be permitted only in the public interest and provided that it is essential to achieve public benefit and that the public benefit of the extravagant purpose is proportionate to the intervention in private property. The public benefit for real estate is deemed to be demonstrated if provided for in the national or municipal location plan. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 92 and 93, immovable property may be decommissioned for purposes laid down by other laws. In this case, the provisions of the law on the regulation of premises shall apply to the procedure of depriving and restricting property rights and to compensation, unless, of course, the law provides otherwise. Likewise, the ministry is arranged. However, in the parliamentary group, the issue of ownership or the decommissioning instrument is still being raised, which is, however, more detailed in the second legislation than I have already mentioned. The landowner could actively participate in the process as a potential shareholder or obtain in exchange another equivalent land or sell the land or receive compensation. This was also discussed by the Secretary of State and other discussers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the law and in the third reading, we will try to deal with the issue more specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Dušan Vučko will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the bill. Why do we support the bill in the House of Representatives? In particular, because it is primarily about harmonising our legislation with the acquis of the European Union. Secondly, because it adequately regulates the area of cable devices and because the law ensures the safe operation of these devices and the safety of users. We also support the law because the introduction of the construction concession allows and can be said to open the door to further update existing cable devices and build new cable devices. Because the law provides in its provisions for the negotiation of all entities in a particular area, both local communities, natural and legal persons concerned in the role of potential concessionaires, as well as landowners on which cableway installations are to be built or skied. We also support the law because it eliminates the long-standing shortcomings of regulation in this area in two ways: for the first time, with the new law we will finally remedy the shortcomings. This deficiency is that new skis will be established on the basis of a specific implementing act, a spatial implementing act, or a local community or country. It's a location plan. And a second time. As an extreme asset, I stress that, as an extreme asset, it allows and stresses, in accordance with the Constitution, Article 69 of the Constitution, and having regard to Article 67 of the Constitution, as an extreme asset, it allows for the restriction and confiscation of property rights for the purposes of the construction of a cableway device. In particular, we support the law because it does not hide ambitions to ensure the conditions for safe and smooth operation not only of cable devices, but also of skis, which are in most cases directly linked to skis. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the operation of skis is in the public interest and not only in the interests of individual operators. The conversion of individual skis and associated cableways has a variety of multiplier effects in a given area, and this is demonstrated by the countries of the European Union in the Alps. You don't have to look far, and we'll see what the regulated wire infrastructure means, what the effects are on the economy, on tourism and everything else. Finally, ski resorts and cableway facilities represent an important part of the tourist infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia and one of the important elements of the tourist offer. And in the final stage they also contribute to strengthening the health of Slovenian citizens and citizens, as a range of sports and recreational activities are taking place in these ski resorts. This is not, I stress, not a revolutionary solution, but a solution that, for the first time, complies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and for the second time, enables the safe and smooth operation of cable devices and skis, taking into account the rights of landowners. That is why we will also support this law in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you. We will also hear the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, which will be presented by counterpart Saša Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u20	Your Honors are here! Allow me to touch myself a few years ago when I was still studying in the direction of tourism at one of the University of Maribor, they strictly asked us not to use the word "wire" for the transport of persons, but that they are "vertical devices" and that they are "vertical transport". Therefore, I think it would make sense that if already in educational processes they require a certain name of certain things to be introduced and upgraded, of course, also in laws. But it's a less important matter. But allow me to touch, according to our assessment, the two most important things in this law, which we support in the National Party, and which we believe is that its need in life, that is, in this area, is very important. However, we would like to point out two, after our assessment of the shortcomings for which we would like the proposer or to consider them or, of course, to define them in more detail in a sub-legislative act, namely, for the first time, an area of decommissioning which, in our opinion, is rather inconsistent and, in essence, a summary of the law on the regulation of space which still leaves one of the partners, particularly that forced partner, a party in the process and does not determine in fact the rights that belong to it, nor the other rights set out in this title. More important criticism or desire for change comes from the construction concession. That is, according to our assessment, exactly or also in this area, the state unfortunately still does not have a law on concession, which would be a statutory law, which would determine procedures on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the rights and obligations of both the concessionaire and the concessionaire. According to our assessment, there is a great contradiction between the reasoning and the text of the articles within the framework of the said Act. Allow me, therefore, in the first part of the law, in explanation of the procedures for awarding concessions, the applicant shall state the different procedures which are usually initiated in the case of those seeking the concession or in the case of those seeking the business. However, in the context of Article 27 itself, the method of award shall be defined as a concession act. The Concession Act is always on the side of whether local communities or governments of the Republic of Slovenia as two exclusive holders of the rights of concession holders. Therefore, according to our assessment, the proposal, as set out in point 4 of the Explanation and later defined in Article 22 of the Law, is therefore unnecessary. According to our assessment, it would also be necessary for individual competences to be divided or separated from the competences of the local community concession in the initial stage of the jurisdiction of the State concession. This means that, in the first part, the State, as the holder of the concession, would, of course, refuse to do so in favour of the so-called annual or long-term vertical transport programme or otherwise the designation of sport of the Republic of Slovenia, where it would only define certain points and the intended interest in the establishment of such transport. However, all other concession cases would, of course, be within the jurisdiction of local communities. Unfortunately, there is a mistake here, namely the failure of a legislator who has not been able, according to our assessment, to define the matter in the basic core concession law itself. Therefore, concessions continue to appear as one of the forms of public services in local communities. Regrettably, acts which then determine the implementation of, at least, a directorial establishment, at least concessions, or similar forms of implementation of a specific public service are so different that it is very difficult to expect that the law itself, which defines the ownership of a particular infrastructure in several municipalities, will harmonise through concessionary acts. Thus, the concessionary acts proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in Article 27 will be so difficult to come, and we expose this fear as a third, to the common denominator, especially taking into account the final cable station. Well, on the other hand, in the National Party, we would only like to see a simplification of the explanation, in particular with Article 27. For if we follow the previous procedures, as the proposalr points out, such a call cannot, of course, be or is completely irrelevant. [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] For the fact is that the concession act will be written at the request of the interested party or of that so-called tenderer. However, I would just like to touch the matter for a second, but I think it is very important, so-called Article 19, when the concession is not necessary for the construction of the tractors. According to our assessment, it is irrelevant that we thus tighten the conditions for when concession is not necessary, for the fact that those small, so-called private tractors will not meet any safety requirements, perhaps modern society, or standards that are defined. For if we ask or ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u21	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u22	the limit in a negative sense, i.e. for a length of 200 meters or a flow of 2.5 meters per second. [[...]] According to our assessment, these criteria would, of course, be necessary and reasonably omitted, so as to remain [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u23	My friend Peca, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u24	Only the first two, this is the construction of the objects and the duration. [[...]] We hope that the applicant will take this into account in the framework of the sub-legislative acts or consider further procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be led by the review of the amendments, of 25.11.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1a and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this amendment. Anybody want a word? Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Look, I think that through this whole law, this public interest is somehow being drawn indefined. And only more or less in two, three cases, when a concession is to be granted only at the request of someone, when it is necessary to decommission the land that the concessionaire depletes, and when the concessionaire has the right to request the separation of these cases from the bankruptcy mass. I think that this public interest is necessary if we really care so much about this operation or if we are concerned about this operation of cableways even in such a way that the candidates also actively capitalise on this area, invest in these things, and thereby give this activity the real weight that it would have to be given if all these activities of a broader character were to develop, as set out in the first paragraph of this Article. Cases also show that concessionaires or cable operators themselves are not capable of solving the problems of cableways after the end of the depreciation period. And it is more or less necessary for both us and abroad to be affected by the country or by the local community. I think that when this provision is introduced, this second paragraph provides, in fact, the conditions for determining, for the first time, the public interest, and for the second time, the possibility that the State may, on some appropriate basis or the local community, also intervene in cases where there are problems of quality or problems relating to the management and safe use of these cable devices. I think that the proposal we have put forward is completely credible, completely normal and it would make sense to add this. By gaining this public interest also a real one, it is also said, a financial weight. Otherwise, public interest is an imaginative matter, public interest is the desire of one or more individuals who have managed to abuse and enforce the procedure through a municipal authority or at a national level, and only to achieve that these ownership matters are changed in such a way as to say grave and simplistic manner as set out in those provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you. Comrade Dusan Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u28	Personally, I believe that the addition of Article 1 to the new second paragraph, which speaks of public interest being demonstrated if we write down in the law how much a person of public law or a State or a local community will contribute to financial resources, does not, of course, mean that there is a public interest in this way. The public interest, as now defined by the law, is, in my view, quite correctly set out in Article 1. However, public interest will be demonstrated through the adoption process of the site plan and, if necessary, further amendments to the general spatial act. And in this way we degrade or fail to recognise the basic, fundamental components of local self-government or its basic competences for the adoption of spatial acts. If we know the law on space regulation, we well know what the procedure is - to change the primary use of space in the first phase and the second, to adopt a local plan. And once again, I stress why we are operating on this decomposition as some basic instrument - no. And why we have a lack of confidence in local communities, where people who choose public interest by their own volition are involved in matters falling within the jurisdiction of the local community. There is a public interest when consensus is reached for this, only then will it go into the construction of the cableway device. However, the route from point A to point B, or from idea to goal, is many times long and paved with thorns.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you. Jože Jerovšek gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I do not support this amendment in order to prevent the manipulation of the public interest and the abuse of this public interest. In fact, as it is now conceived, it is entirely possible that this public interest will be fictitiously manifested for some other purposes, but of course it will be fictitiously demonstrated that it is about building some cableway devices, which will serve until it is launched, let's say a process of decommissioning some land for someone who thinks maybe some weekends and some things there to build. But, of course, here it will be for privileged individuals with a political backdrop and then the land will pass into some other property, it will actually be nationalized and the cableway facility will not be built. If we ensure, or from law, that the local community or the state also materially demonstrate its public, general interest, then we will achieve more confidence of landowners who will go into agreements with the potential land builder, and this will be a measure envisaged by this law of decommissioning, which can be very often misused - we know how such things are misused, then it can be avoided under this law. Only in this way, I am not saying that we can also set these percentages of co-financing slightly differently, but let us do something to force the state and the local communities to achieve a broader consensus and to make a contribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you. Janko Weber gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Well, it's nice and interesting to read that 70% would be given by the state, if the state is a candidate, and 70% by the municipality, if the municipality is a candidate, to finance the construction of cable devices. But if we look at municipal budgets, we have to remember that we have some kind of proper spending prescribed and if we impose on local communities this law that 70% must provide, then we also have to say the source from where we will provide the source. Thus, this problem is somewhat broader than it can be read, I would say, at first glance, and I think that it would be really difficult to implement this law if this remained in it as proposed in the proposal for Article 1a. In practice, however, where the interest of the place is concerned, the municipality will also approach to help with the closure of the financial structure and will also define it in an act by which it will grant the concession or, in particular, in this act, so that there are clear obligations to build. It will likely also happen that even at a rate of 100%, some municipality will provide funds for the construction of the cableway. On the other hand, this amendment may even be a restriction in the case where the local community chooses to build and then to make use of it. So I think that the solutions that are recorded in the existing law to determine interest, and if interest is, then also financial obligations are determined, sufficiently correctly written solutions that provide the possibility for any further procedures that follow in the final stage of the construction of the cableway device. That's why I don't think this amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you. The word now has Saša Peca and then Dušan Vukko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u34	Even as the National Party of the SDS amendment does not make sense, the fact is that in the first paragraph of new proposal 1.a of Article we are talking about a very broad concept of public interest, i.e. that it is automatically allocated to less developed regions or municipalities. On the other hand, you may request so - called funding from these congregations in the second paragraph. What I personally think is public-interest funding is a little bit at stake when it comes to such a broad dictatorship in Article 1. According to our assessment, according to the National Party, if the SDS amendment were to be adopted, funds should be provided and defined for the budgets of local communities and, in particular, their resources for such an activity. Personally, however, I fear that the adoption of Article 1, paragraph 1 (a), in particular would be a hindrance to the development of cableways or cableway transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you. Dushan Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u36	I believe that the second paragraph in the proposed form, if adopted, would constitute an interference with the autonomy of local communities in such a way that it commands how much it must contribute. It is in the interest of the state and the local community to build such devices after the so-called BOT concession, "Build Operate Transfer". And that private capital is invested in public infrastructure, cableway in this case, and thus the municipality achieves those multiplier effects that can be achieved in a given area. As an interesting thing: it is calculated that the Kobla ski resort in the municipality of Bohinj means a billion revenue in one season, multiple, not the income of the manager, but all those directly or indirectly associated with the activity of the cableway in tourism in a particular area.Here we have to take account of everything, from petrol pumps, from shops, catering facilities, and not to speak any further. And this is one that in some way substantiates the fact that the operation of cableway devices is mostly a case in connected skis, in the public interest, and not just in the interests of the individual operator.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you. And Joze Tanko wants the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u38	Look, first of all, if you tripped a little bit on this space-registration law. On Friday it was published, in one of the local annexes of Dela, a statement by Minister Kopač that the law on the regulation of premises is in vain. That was at the meeting. I think it was the Pretzel mayors. And in fact, to refer to the law that the Minister has declared to be worthless, proposed it, and that, even in the sense that it is the euro law, we have also adopted it and supplemented it, it is a real disaster. Second thing, why is that a suggestion? In particular, so that this public interest is not declared so easily. Theoretically, in the area of the entire municipality or a few municipalities, we can declare public interest and place all these lands under a different status and then conduct interestingly these procedures, such as those set out in Article 35. No problem. If we want to define public interest for an area, then it makes sense that we also define and define these public interests in some way. Even with the level of integration, and thus with the local community in some way to burden them, there is only as much public interest as they can finance it. The provision on co-investment or investment in these cableway devices, including the participation of private part of the capital, is not specific. If we adopt the TNP Act, which was put into procedure by the four Members of the four groups, they have also defined in one article how much the State must pay for that area of the Triglav Park. And this is beyond the law on coherent regional development. And since I am already in the law on coherent regional development, this law also defines co-financing of the country into projects of a broader character in the local field. He co-finances them. And I don't know why we shouldn't tie this to this part. And I think it doesn't make things any worse and it doesn't limit anything at all, but it actually gives things some head and tail. With these things which are in these provisions of the law [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Recorded, easily linked. [[...]] It links the right to declare a public interest, the right to be exempt from bankruptcy, with the right to make an investment in this matter, if you take it. Finally, those who have declared public interest, in the event of renewal, must first say, but Slovenia has no exception, and also abroad must pay for these systems to be renewed, updated and functioning and that those multiplier effects can also benefit in these areas. There is no exception to Slovenia in these areas. Every system even, I think, if no law has already been adopted to allow for the specific co-financing of exactly these systems even in the budget, I think it is inside, for the renewal of these and these matters. I don't think we can do such things in such an easy way and there's no need to do it that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you. Mag. Matjaž Prince, representative of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to speak to this amendment. Of course, linking, demonstrating public interest by paying for a particular participation would, in our view, be inappropriate. In doing so, it is particularly important to note the directives of the European Union, which also prohibit such a thing. As regards cableways, there is certainly an interest in the wider local community, which is demonstrated through procedures for obtaining appropriate spatial acts. However, in order to grant State aid for the development of tourism infrastructure, the Act on the promotion of tourism is provided for in this Act, which provides that cableways are included among the tourist infrastructure facilities. In accordance with this Regulation, the Ministry of Economy has allocated a considerable amount of resources for the development of this activity in 1999 to 2003, mainly for the preparation of the relevant spatial acts and, of course, for certain procedures. In addition, many operators and the local community are also running for cohesion funds dedicated to the development of certain communities. That's how we think these things are laid down in other laws. They certainly don't belong to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u41	Can we conclude a discussion on Article 1a? I conclude the debate on Article 1a and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I am moving on to Article 22 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Who wants a word? Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u42	Mr President, before speaking to this article at all, I might remind you that the title of the second chapter, I think that this second chapter behind the text to which it follows, does not match, and that word construction in the title is completely superfluous. However, with regard to this amendment, which we have tabled, I think it is necessary, because in practice we often also encounter land and farms which have the status of protected farms or in some way have certain specific limitations, and I think it would be appropriate for such farms, which operate under this law, to be able to participate in this process in a timely manner, that is to say, at the very beginning and not only after they have been subjected in some forced manner to some kind of discipline and to impose undue compensation or compensation for the use of land. That is why I think that these issues should be properly settled in a timely manner, especially because they are farms that are indivisible and I do not think that such special status is even in the exercise of public interest. I don't think it's possible to loosen them up and cut them down because they're indivisible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you. Mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u44	I think this amendment is entirely justified. Now, if not already, we would not be required to agree, but it would be reasonable and fair for all those who will be involved in these processes of plausible dissipation or anything else to at least request the opinion that the owners are accompanied by an opinion, if it is not possible to obtain agreement that they are informed of what awaits them. Since the law on this debauchery is extremely rigid, it should be. That's supposed to be because they went in such a bad way, and there's nothing to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you. Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u46	According to our assessment, as far as I have said in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, the instrument of application for interest is destroying the role and purpose of the concession. According to our assessment, these two instruments are not going together at all. As the fact is that the application for interest submitted by the concessionaire accompanying the concessionaire will dictate the content of the future concession act, which is, of course, contrary to the sense of awarding the concession. According to our assessment, the role of interest could take over Slovenia's integrated development in this area and then approach a pure concession, because, in fact, if we allow and agree on the theory that the application for interest will determine the content of the concession act, and if we know that it is precisely the concession area because of its legal uncertainty that is the most subject of corruption activities, then, of course, according to my assessment and according to the assessment of the national party, such an instrument is completely irrelevant in the law. I would be most pleased if this instrument were not in law at all. However, in order for at least a little to be prevented or the need for consensus to be involved, we will support the amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u48	I do not believe that this amendment is necessary, since it is primarily a legal or natural person who wishes to arrange a cableway installation, so submits an application for interest to the competent authority and in this application must specify the location where the activity is intended to be carried out or where the location of the cableway equipment, its technical characteristics, capacity, purpose of use, etc. is envisaged. This stage, whether then possible to place this device in space or not, is, of course, precisely defined in the spatial act adopted by the local community. The way in which spatial acts are adopted is such that, of course, the phase of public disclosure, where the owners are, of course, invited to take part in this public disclosure, and that is when comments are made on this act. And if this is the case, as far as the amendment is concerned, for protected farms as well, and if our legislation does not allow interference with protected farms with complementary activities, such as the construction of a cableway device, then such a device will not be there and even if some people would express an interest in having it there, it will not be possible because it will not be allowed in the spatial act. This is also very clear in Article 25, in the third paragraph, where it states that the concession act can only be adopted after the implementation of the spatial act. Therefore, it is not possible to grant a concession in an area where a spatial act does not permit such an activity. That is why I believe that this amendment is unnecessary, because solutions are already sufficiently effective in other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u49	Aloys Sok wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u50	If things are going to be understood in a way that is now presented by colleague Weber, then this law that we are adopting today is not saving anything. Then there is no point in accepting such a law because there is a conflict between marriages. Thus, we also have a law that does not affect a protected farm. It is certain that the status of the protected farm is in the public interest and that the owner of the protected farm will not allow its protected farm to be shared somehow, to take away one part of its agricultural land, since it thus ceases to allow it to continue farming on such a farm. That's what he's depending on. It's actually his existence. And of course, if we wanted to save something, it would be logical to accept only in the manner proposed by the proposers, with an amendment. It is said that a form of consent is being sought. Besides, I don't understand it that way. I understand that this law, which derogates from the law on the regulation of premises, will result in decommissioning procedures. While you say that under this law discharge will be used as an extreme possible measure, of course this extreme possible measure may also become in some sense a basic measure. And it is clear to me now that this law will constitute an extremely conflicting situation and that it is not good to adopt it in such a way, so quickly, so recklessly and even contrary to the law on the regulation of space. So this is going to be a big, complicated, insoluble puzzle and the results that you expect from this law, of course, will simply not be, because it can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you. Honey Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u52	I guess I don't understand anymore. Then I'll finally tell you what I don't understand. First of all, I would like to join the full debate of my colleague Vebra. And, of course, the care for the protection of protected farms governed by a specific law is entirely justified, but as colleague Weber stressed, the owner's consent to the application for an interest in construction is not necessary. And that is not the case, so of course this amendment is unnecessary. Of course, I don't understand this, at the same time, on the one hand, we are listening to the fact that we want a "hard" version of this law, on the other hand, when we have a procedure, when the law determines the solutions that it implies - and I have stressed in the presentation of the position of the LDS Club of Members - presupposes negotiation, coordination of different entities at some local level in some tourist area, and again it is not worth it. I thank God that's true. This also protects the interests of owners to negotiate, etc. And it is unnecessary to re-write in this law all the laws, all the solutions provided by the rest of the sector legislation and regulations. We are talking about the procedure for adopting the site plan, then we have the protection of protected farms here, and I agree here with my colleague Webro, if it turns out in the process that the individual protected farm would be at risk, its existence, and then it cannot be built there. I'm sure I believe in this country and these institutions and I believe in the local community. And then let us continue to write in here that, under the environmental protection law, an environmental impact assessment should be made for each such intervention. Then let us write down that the water law should make sure that these are water - collecting areas. Where are we going?! It is assumed that those who decide something and would expect it in this national assembly, and we know some systemic regulation of a legal issue, because if we start writing laws in such a way that we will write everything in one law, then we already have too many laws already too normal - and where will we come from?Oh, my God! And in this part, this amendment is really not necessary. The adoption process itself protects protected farms, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u53	Thank you. Joze Tanko, say it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u54	Yes, look at this belief by Mr Wolf in practice does not mean anything. When you are in some procedure in an administrative unit that takes these procedures, say legally completes them, or on a municipal administration, then the opinion of one MP means nothing. There is the opinion of that official who leads and concludes this procedure. The other thing is, Mr. Webber. It says that the solutions in other laws are sufficiently effective, and that is why the dissolution procedure in which the law is specifically dealt with is also not necessary in this special case only for the purposes of cableways, which primarily governs the conflict between tenants or potential concessionaires and owners of agricultural land. The protected farm is also a public interest and the law has also been adopted and these matters have also been written and laid down there. And in this case, if this exception is not entered in, it is simply a conflict of two laws, in this case special cases, and there is a provision which is later adopted. I don't know how many times. I think it's right for these things to be settled. The key problem of all land and all matters is that these multiplier effects, which Wolf talks about and which you have also written down there in law and in explanation, are not distributed in some appropriate way. If the owner of the land, as well as the protected farm, had received a proportionate, appropriate share of these multiplier effects, he would probably gladly sign it because he is interested. If the concessionaire likes money, the owner also has money because he wants to make money out of the property he owns. However, things are very unilaterally set up and there is in practice these problems and there will also be that these interests will be overcome, in this case with the last law adopted. And that's why this exception is necessary to write it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u55	Janko Weber has another word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Well, given that the ski resort is supposed to be a problem for the existence and existence of a farm, this claim somehow does not go well together. In fact, we always try to make sure that the farm has a program throughout the year. And, of course, over the summer it's kind of easier to market a farm, and during the winter time you have to find some complementary activity that is connected to this winter time, and skiing is certainly one of those that are also an additional opportunity for a protected farm. However, with regard to the restriction on the exercise of agricultural activities, this law also states that it is possible to restrict the ownership of the landowner with a real service at the time of operation of the ski resort, i.e. when it is snow, or, for example, from 15 October to 15 May at the most. This is the period which is foreseen and very precisely laid down in the law so that restrictions can also be imposed on the exercise of ski activities. However, I do not know why a skier would not be a complementary offer to a protected farm. In my view, it is additional and likely that those who own a farm would probably enjoy this rather than discourage this activity, because it really brings to the place a number of potential buyers of services offered by such a farm. And this, I think, is one of the biggest challenges we face in all of the problems or in all the problems of rural development, high-rise farms and so on. That is why I think that this law actually helps protected farms very much, not to prevent them from farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u57	Thank you. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u58	That's right. We all agree that this marriage helps, but if you don't agree, if the two of you don't agree, then the marriage doesn't help. If the owner of a protected farm sees in this interest that any of the things I say he will earn, then there is no problem. But if he sees that they don't have any of it, then he probably won't see any interest. And what would be wrong for us to give consent in the process of obtaining this right? I myself objected to your explanation when you said that a protected farm could not be dissolved. Yeah, how's that? We know, by law, that road infrastructure has also reached the status of protected farms. We had a farm here near Ljubljana, where we drove around for two years, and they moved it all the way to another location. So of course it doesn't hold. And it is not true that the status of a protected farm could prevent decommissioning if you accept this item in this cableway law in the manner you have intended. So, that's not true, just not true. And there will be a conflict of situations here, so it would be appropriate for this amendment to be adopted and, at the very beginning of the regulation of the acquisition of this right, to lay down the consent of the owner of the protected farm as a condition that such an investment may be made at all. Otherwise, once again, this marriage will be worthless because it will represent disputes that I do not know who will solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you. Master Matjaž Prince, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. In the opening presentation of the law, I made it clear that the law is also ready to solve the problems of existing owners, today's disputes arising from the irregular situation. I think that, of course, the law regulates this thing inappropriately better than it has been so far. It should be said, however, that the proposed amendment, in order to give consent to the initial phase, is, in fact, impossible to make the process in some way normal. It is necessary to know, however, that the proposed law does not provide for any specific provisions derogating from the applicable legislation in respect of protected farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you. Josie Tanko, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u62	You know, I said earlier, and also interpreting the legislative and legal service is such that a later adopted regulation overruns the previous one. Thus, if we define a new public interest on some land, a new one, even on a protected farm, then that provision in the previous law no longer applies. This provision shall apply. That's why we need to make that exception. And to the problems, I think that everyone is interested in coherent regional development also in the congregation. I don't know the owner who wouldn't want anything from his property. I don't know him. He's not here. Everyone wants to make money. But if this interest and these earnings are not, I'll say, symmetrically divided, but are asymmetric, and you allow this asymmetry by this law, or you're putting it even more emphasis on it, then these problems will always exist, and it's getting bigger. We can't put someone in a materially subordinate position compared to another. By this law, you have allowed the process of expropriation in this way, and which you are also introducing in it, you will do so. You'll do it. And you're going to eliminate someone who owns it for, I don't know, 300, 400 years, completely, and on that land, you're going to define a new titler of property. New. Of course, if you release someone, a new owner will appear, because this matter will not be lost by the owner. It will be the local community, or the state, if the candidate initiates the procedure. Or he'll give it to someone. Someone's going to book it later. And instead of the one who's been put in there so far, because of a provision like that, because we didn't make that exception, we're going to write a new owner. And just take away his tools. I don't know if we should confiscate Wolf's computer with public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u63	Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u64	Well, in previous discussions, there were incorrect comparisons between the highway and the ski slope. On the highway it is no longer possible to farm, it is a real intervention that needs to be resolved if no agreement is reached, only with a location plan and a decommissioning process, which can be achieved on the ski slope. And, of course, an agreement can also be reached that there is no decommissioning at all, nor is it the purpose of this law to insist on decommissioning. However, this is one of the extreme mechanisms, which, of course, can be used to prevent one owner from hindering the development of the whole place or the entire area. And this is just that public interest that prevents such extreme situations that may arise if the owner does not appreciate enough that his land is materially more valuable if such a device is built there than was the value of this land until yesterday when the device was not there. And, of course, I think it will be easier and faster to reach an agreement between the two stakeholders if this law also defines decommissioning. However, I repeat, this is a completely different mechanism than the highway, because it is not actually possible to grow on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you. Comrade Wolf, there's no excuse for the replica. But I can't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u66	As far as the Institute of Possibilities is concerned, the House of Members supports, but Member Vukko has not proposed this, but if I support it, that is my decision. This was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The competent ministry supports the Association of Wi-Fi and they well know what problems they are dealing with. So please, Comrade Tanko, leave my computer alone, I have the code and I'll come in, but if you want to limit it otherwise, there will be other measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u67	Anyone else want to discuss this article? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 22 and the amendment tabled. I am moving on to Article 23 and the amendment tabled to Article 23 by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 23. I am moving on to the debate on Article 25, as well as the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 25. I am moving on to the debate on Article 26. The correction, under Article 25, were two amendments to the same parliamentary group. Article 26 of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u68	Here we have proposed two additions, namely, to complement what the concession act must contain; not that this is left to the interpretation of the concessionaire and the concessionaire, but it is necessary to write a mandatory content of this concession act, which is just an act offering some rights and obligations to this system. Furthermore, we propose that the concession act should also allow certain ratings of landowners, as well as the advantages of granting consent and concessions for the implementation and organised complementary activities in the ski centre. I think that these provisions are perfectly appropriate, because I think that there is no need for landowners to be excluded from this additional scheme, but that we also allow them, through this law and the location plan that will be adopted, these issues, and thus also achieve some of the multiple effects that we are always talking about, namely, in this area of the ski resort itself, is not just a problem. The interest of all is that this works well, and the interest of all is, in particular those who have land there, that also this complementary programme, an additional part works very well. In my opinion, however, this interest also relaxes or relaxes this interest for landowners, who would be drawn to the interest in something happening in this area. We are in fact supporting or justifying public interest in this area. That is, I would say, a very correct proposal. And the goal is to integrate as many people as possible into such a system. Those who want to gain this public interest or build a cable device, such as those who could complement the offer on such a ski resort and make it interesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you. Article 26 has two amendments and we are discussing it together. Comrade Dushan Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Point one first. First of all, we must bear in mind that this is the case, we are talking about a concession for the construction of cable devices and it is entirely inappropriate or illogical for the law to now oblige the concessionaire to regulate another, as stated here, ski tracks, other recreational or tourist areas, objects. The concessionaire gets a concession to build a cable device. And it is unnecessary to commit the concessionaire to other matters. Here, however, a free initiative must be left in accordance with the Constitution and so on. And one more thing when we're talking about Article 2. Many times, such thinking has led to conflict. I think that the second paragraph would mean, in some way, a breach of competition. Look. We must be aware, however, that landowners are in a particular area where a spatial act will be adopted, along with the location plan for the cableway, in favour, as landowners, and to the extent that the spatial act on its land produces a service service, a catering facility, anything directly related to the efficient, quality of the operation of the ski resort, has the advantage as owners, since only he can afford to build on his land when we talk about a ski resort as such in a spatial act. Of course, if we are just talking about the route, there can be no other objects on this route, because it is a route of the cableway device, where it must be free, in order to ensure a review of the operation and so on. The purpose is, of course, good and, even now, the current solution allows landowners to participate constructively in the offer of a ski resort.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u72	I don't think at least one part of Mr Wolf's claim is true. For the first paragraph of this Article prescribes what a concessional act may contain. We only propose that the concession act should contain this. Of course, because right, a concessional act must contain certain things that are written there, I don't know why not. And why would they give someone, I don't know, one small piece, one piece, another more or more, and so on. We need some form to prescribe and unify this matter. The second thing, however, is not limited to competition in this area, but it is simply stated that those who wish to obtain this concession must be able to carry out this concession and also to carry out it in the interest of the environment, it is said that the matter will have a tail and a head, that it will not only be a cableway around nothing, that it will at least set up basic or elementary sanitary matters and other things. Some of these things just have to be written inside, and in this part of the matter needs to be clearly defined, but not by free judgment to leave this interpretation to someone who is more or less influential.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you. Can we conclude a debate on Article 26 and these two amendments? Mag. Prince.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u74	I would warn you that if we accept such an amendment, there will be a problem. Since cable devices are sometimes built not only for skiing, we also build cable devices for example for the transport of passengers, such as a cable device to the Ljubljana Castle. "More" then means a limiting factor and then such an article can become problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you. I conclude the debate on Article 26 and the two amendments to this Article. We are moving on to Article 35, where the four amendments are tabled. This is where we would now share the debate so it wouldn't get too intertwined. The first amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group. Well, I've been advised that since they're connected, we can discuss all of them together if you agree. I am opening the debate on all four amendments tabled to Article 35. Comrade Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. If you allow, presidents, all four amendments are connected, and then also 35.a and 35.b., all somehow represent some similar matter in this law. In all cases, it is about how to define the public benefit or then restrict property rights accordingly. With the first amendment, we propose that Article 35 should be amended to read: "The public benefit for the relaxation or limitation of property rights on real estate, which is necessary for the construction of cableway installations and other facilities in the concession act for which a location plan is adopted, a concession granted for construction and a concession contract concluded, shall be demonstrated in accordance with the law on the regulation of premises. The provisions and procedures established in accordance with the law on the regulation of premises shall apply to the discharge." So, we are convinced that in our legislative practice we should not legitimize some duality of procedures. If we have adopted a law on space regulation - then it has been said that it is a European law, that it is a European comparable solution in this law. Now Minister Kopač is walking around Slovenia and says that this law stinks, that it is extremely rigid and so on. However, it seems to us, however, that we should first correct the law on the regulation of premises, rather than regulate matters relating to public benefit in certain areas of law and by decommissioning procedures differently than the basic law. We propose that these amendments be amended to Article 35a, then to Article 35a, where we also propose how to limit the use of the right of service, and that you accept Article 35b. If these amendments were adopted, we are convinced that the Law on the Construction of Cable Devices, or what it is already called, and the transport of persons would be in line with the Law on the Regulation of Space. Something similar in the fourth amendment to Article 35 is also proposed by the coalition, it is said, by the Group of Members, but this proposal to add a new fourth paragraph to the effect that the provisions of the law governing the implementation of spatial measures for the implementation of the planned spatial arrangements are applied to the delimitation and limitation of property rights and for damages, it seems to us that this dictatorship is rather illogical and it is not clear whether this actually means full compliance with the law on the regulation of space or only parts of this law relating to the application of spatial measures for the implementation of the planned spatial arrangements. If it remains so written, it will in practice represent some incomprehensible matter in the decision itself when the administrative authorities have to decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you. Dushan Wolf has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u78	I'll take the points. With regard to the first amendment proposed by the New Slovenia Group of Members, colleague Sok rightly found that the parties to the coalition propose a similar solution with the new fourth paragraph. It is not an illogical dictatorship, it is a dictatorship drawn up by the legislature on our initiative, especially because we have listened to the opposition's warnings that this law does not clearly specify what the procedures are, although the legislative and legal service on the committee has made it clear that it is not necessary to write this because it is regulated by the law on space regulation. However, I think it is correct for the people who will read this law, the users of this law, to refer to this chapter on ZUREP, which sets out everything, as regards procedure, method, compensation and so on. So we're content here on the same level. About the second amendment. In the LDS, we will support this amendment for a simple reason, because we believe that ZUREP is setting a 30-day deadline, a general deadline for simple applications, but I estimate that in this particular case it is necessary to give a little more time to think and that those 60 days, given that we have a prior procedure for probably one year, will not constitute a significant deviation from the final objective that some area is behind. So we'll support the other amendments. The third amendment - already ZUREP, when defining procedures, talks about the way, and the fact that when it comes to compensation for the valueholders participating here, there is no need to specify and I think we will not support this amendment. Of course, we will support the proposal of the LDS Members' Groups, the United List of Social Democrats, DeSUS and SLS for a new fourth paragraph, which emerged on the basis of what I have already said in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you. Joz Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u80	Well, look at that. This 35th Article, written as it is, is written extremely unilaterally, is written very flawed and does not in fact define completely any conditions under which the concessionaire offers a contract for signature to the owner of the agricultural land. It doesn't define anything at all. In theory, the concessionaire may offer to the owner of the agricultural land for rent or for service a contract in which the amount of compensation or the amount of compensation for service is zero or 0,1 I do not know, at so much and so, per square metre. Theoretically. And under these conditions. In the absence of a contract, the discharge procedure will be initiated. And we propose, with our additions, that these matters be defined more precisely. In order to set a slightly longer coordination period where both the owner and the concessionaire are given the opportunity to reconcile their problems and their ideas in some way. And we also propose that it be clearly recorded that the basis for these matters is appreciation. Valuation is quite common in all property procedures, in all coordination procedures. So you wrote. We've also proposed. So we know what we're talking about. And I think that the problem is also with other laws that things, so defined, go into the procedure and, without need, get very angry with the public, even those who participate in these procedures, and then with some of them, with amendments to the law try to fix these matters a little bit. However, there is a problem, Mr Vukko, that in some cases you strongly support this, that some of the things that are regulated in other laws are introduced into another law or specifically into this law. In some cases, even that kind of thing. You don't have any consistent position. And I think that in some law these things, which we accept, must be arranged in such a way that they are readable, without needing seven laws, that I will coordinate, control, verify. I think it's a law that only takes place because of the law and address and because of the arrangement that someone gets a concession or that someone very cheap gets to own someone else's property. These things, however, are totally unnecessary in order to be organized in this way. And in these cases and in these procedures things need to be done somehow more civilised. As I said, everyone has an interest in the operation of buildings on such lands, that is also said in this case of cableways and ski resorts, and everyone would like to have something of this, some proportion of the resources that are created there. And if we don't guarantee it, and this law doesn't guarantee it, then we automatically consciously start into problems and all those procedures that are unnecessary that can be resolved by agreement are totally unnecessary. In fact, this law is also one of those who places agricultural land owners or land in an extremely subordinate position at the expense of someone who comes with a guarantee or with some conclusion of a public interest, which is encouraged by a purely personal, private, entrepreneurial or property initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u81	Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. As far as decommissioning is concerned, I should be extremely careful because I have bad experiences in the past. See, I would understand that there is a procedure in which discharge, as set out here in our Constitution, insofar as it is a matter of public service; we know under what conditions also there is a public service established in cableways, there is a clear public interest. However, when it comes to tourism, you cannot define it even if it is national, if it is a state-owned enterprise that leads to this thing, it is still a principle in the way of entrepreneurship, the principle of private interest. Therefore, these leniency procedures cannot be simple about revolutionary law. And even if you introduce a concession, this is not the real concession that we're talking about right now, the concession for the performance of the public service, it's not that concession. It's a term, but it's not a concession. It's being abused. That's a very good point. And we can't go that way, so first we need to apply the principle of bond-servicing services, and then, first of all, for public service, public cable transport, and in this case procedures should be extremely careful. Look, in Europe, they practically don't have it when you're looking at European countries. Where are the cases of decommissioning? Everything went according to the principles of redemption. Yes, it is, because they had the legislation so directed that the matter was so implemented. You don't specify in the material, either. We don't mention cases of relaxation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u83	Your time is up, please. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u84	Of course it is. There's still a lot to say. But the public interest is not that you define public interest here and therefore it is necessary to adhere strictly to the law on the regulation of premises or the construction of buildings, where it is clearly written, in which cases this can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u85	Comrade Dushan Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u86	I do not know whether we have forgotten what we have accepted in this National Assembly now in this mandate and in previous mandates. Look, first of all, if you listen to the opposition's warnings and say that you will support their amendment in one direction and that we have also listened to the fourth paragraph of the amendment, you will become inconsistent. That's what you're saying. You should go back now and say we won't support it. If Comrade Petty Officer is talking about decommissioning. Look, once again, we're underlining that this is a revolutionary process. This revolutionary process has been adopted by the National Assembly with the Constitution this revolutionary process has adopted the law, the real law, the law on space regulation and everything is determined. Well, who's talking, Comrade Petty Officer, that the possible discharge will take place without compensation? Who says that? The criminal procedure shall be conducted by a court of law. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah, you obviously don't. [[...]] No, we wrote in the law that they apply to the procedure, and this you have, please read, the fourth amendment of the parliamentary groups. And then read the ZUREP, and I'm sorry, don't say I won't use that term. [[...]] [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] No, I'm stressing again. [[...]] Procedures shall be laid down. And no one's talking about letting these people off once or twice. Look, I believe and I know that in the past landowners have also been blackmailed in these areas. Therefore, Article 35b also lays down the minimum criteria for determining compensation because the operator cannot say, or anyone that compensation is a tolar. Well, for God's sake! Well, we've crossed the threshold and we've gone to write some constitution that's democratic, which respects ownership rights. And here because of not knowing, whether they want to or unwillingly, is simply creating the climate that parliamentary coalition groups go kind of bulldozing through. I'm stressing again. The discharge procedure is set, we said we would also accept the proposal to extend that period to 60 days. However, the dispossessing beneficiary, which is a municipality or a state in this case, must initiate an appropriate procedure before a court which decides on all the elements of the dissolution, and I also believe that it will judge the appropriate decision in one way or another. However, the decision of the court has the possibility of legal remedies, and when it comes to the end, it is necessary to do so. And there's something else I'd like to ask you. When we refer to landowners this time, please let me know whose name you speak for. Or those on most skis [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Mr Bajuk, the principle of justice is a perfectly right principle. [[...]] But if 90% of the owners agree with the manager, they sign leases for 20 years, and then there is one part of the owners who want more than the others, these owners act contrary to the principle of justice. Because if you give this man only tolar more compensation, you have to give justice to all owners the same compensation. And these instruments are for these owners. This small percentage, which does not carry out agricultural activities in specific areas not linked to tourism in the place, but live elsewhere, but they have inherited and are counting on their profits. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That doesn't say. That's in practice. [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Petty Officer, the revolution has overlooked you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u87	Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much. It's amazing how a fellow on my right sees that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u89	We're discussing amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u90	Yes, yes, everything is perfectly clear, the principles resulting from our constitution seem totally unnecessary to him. And I think it's about debauchery, because the word itself sounds ominous. We know who has been the subject of decommissioning, which political ancestors of whose customers have done this very much in this country, and that a very precise distinction is needed here, which is possible in accordance with the legal order of this country, as well as the European legal order in which we are coming. What's not possible? As it is now written, I have once warned. Here it is possible to easily invent also an effective cableway, on the basis of which a land will be polished and then subsequently in a few years or after a while this land will be used for completely different purposes. See, it is also very interesting, it is clear or interesting that there is no representative of the people's party, because they are aware that heads in the sand should be pressed in the reception and during these debates. They know that by means of these provisions, they are subjugated or that abuse is possible on the basis of what is now in marriage. Here are the representatives of the government party, they understand everything and everything is through the court. They were equally clear and were provided for the benefit of the country, for example, when selling iron system technology. Today, we read, with one city sold for 440 million, now the new owners have sold 29% of the share, received significantly more. They have disbanded the country, but at the same time they always ensure that everything is ok. And it's all like that. Of course, this is because even when writing a marriage, there is no such effect on the interests of the privileged. And that these warnings are not just there in one day, I tell you that an important representative, say your customers, at Pohorje will tear down 2 hectares of forest for some accompanying activities on the ski slope without any consent, because it counts and knows that it is an authority and that this will be covered sooner or later. Unfortunately, the practice is that some who are close to authority can afford many things without consequences. I'm not saying that it may even be necessary, but without consent it must not be done without environmental consent and all that. Here, some shortcuts are offered for me, some shortcuts are offered and I don't want to disable and be skeptical of cable activity. I am in favour of enabling him as a benchmark, as well as in Austria and Italy, everything works, but this will be, this is a consensus reached with the owners, certainly a consensus reached; but I am not sure that such a dictatorship makes it possible. If it were all clear here, one of these Members would be sitting here, but now they know that they would be held to their word and all that and would rather hide themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u91	Mag. Matjaž Prince, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'd try to say something like this. The country takes care of economic, cultural, social progress in protected, mountain, hilly areas. This is a dictatorship of the Constitution in Article 71, which speaks of land protection. The law was in preparation or the draft law was also coordinated in preparation with the Ministry of Agriculture, it is said by the agri-agricultural chamber and there were no comments from this coordination to the proposed dictatorship. As Mr Weber said in previous debates, in fact, it is our belief that there is an additional source of earnings by limiting certain services or the right to use certain land intended for skiers, so this is an additional source of earnings. As for the discharges themselves, when they come into play, this should be considered. They are taken into account in the installation of individual elements of cable devices, in practice it is 4 to 5 square meters. I think we're mismystifying things too much and giving this problem too much weight. The law itself does not derogate from the basics of classification procedures, which are clearly laid down in the law on the regulation of premises. By supporting Amendment 4, which once again highlights this matter, we believe that the other amendments are not appropriate or are not actually necessary. Exceptionally, we also support the amendment, which speaks of extending the deadline from 30 days to 60 days, although of course any delay in procedures means a loss to potential investors and, of course, to the local community which can generate income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you. Josie Tanko, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u94	I'll say another word in this case. See, the second paragraph of Article 35 is written as follows: "If the concessionaire fails to conclude, within 30 days of the new 60 days after the award of an offer for the award of a contract for the acquisition of property right or service, in the public interest of the property referred to in the preceding paragraph of this contract, he shall submit to his proposal a candidate, acting as a dispossessor, without delay, a proposal for the expropriation or limitation of property rights." But nowhere is it written, under what conditions can an offer be made." That's why I said before, theoretically, I can either do nothing or I can do nothing with compensation. The proposer of this procedure for the conclusion of the contract shall be the concessionaire. This concessionaire shall write in this service contract what he deems appropriate and shall not be written anywhere that this matter is to be coordinated with that, nor shall any coordination procedure be prescribed. We therefore propose that it be supplemented by the use of the subject or the valuation as an instrument for determining the price to be acceptable to both parties. We cannot agree that unilaterally determining the conditions for rent or for the service of the person who is the criterion or criteria for initiating a procedure is not acceptable. It's not in normal society. If we have two partners, we need to make a deal with what's coordinated. And if someone does not even have the opportunity to comment on this harmonisation process being carried out, then it will also give him free, theoretically, that he will be able to have this matter. I think it's completely absurd that this is what the law says. And there's one more thing I can say. We can now discuss here whether it is necessary or not, but there has been a lot of decommissioning, and even a lot of it has dissolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you. We can conclude the debate on Articles 35 and four amendments. We are moving on to Article 35.a, where the amendments have been tabled by four members and the New Slovenia Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would just like to say that we have prepared an amendment to Article 35b on the basis of the legislative and legal service's comment, because in the second paragraph it has not been written for whom the ownership right to the real service of the use of the land for skiing can be limited. The legislative and legal service also assessed that in the third and fourth paragraphs it is not necessary to re-emphasize "concessionaries for the construction of the cableway system" because the right to the eventual establishment of the service belongs to the ski operator.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 35a and the two amendments. We are moving on to the debate on Article 35b and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 35b. We are moving on to the debate on Article 35c and the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I also conclude this debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 9. I'm breaking the 10th item of the agenda. At 12:20, we'll move on to the 11th item of the agenda. Until then, thank you for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u98	We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on the protection of underground pits The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome in our midst Master Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy and Master Jelko Kremesec, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. I give the floor to the Minister for the introductory supplementary explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members! The proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves is prepared for a second hearing in accordance with the positions adopted by the State Assembly at first reading, and I can now say, further in February, in 2000. The key solutions to the proposed law follow the systemic solutions set out in the Nature Conservation Act and are adapted to the specific characteristics and requirements of the protection of underground caves. The caves are defined as the natural public good and the natural values of national importance, which are owned by the State, with the ownership of the country's cave infrastructure. This gives the conditions for the specific use of caves, in accordance with their threat. The specific use of caves, including the activities of cave tourism, cultural, scientific and research, educational and health activities, and the provision of drinking water to the public, will be carried out only on the basis of the concessional relationship concluded. In the process of establishing legal solutions, the government has obtained the opinions of the interested and professional public up to the solutions proposed. We have succeeded, and I would like to commend myself for the fact that this non-governmental scene is quite controversial, to form solutions in agreement with everyone. In particular with the Jamar Association of Slovenia and the Institute for the Exploration of Kras Slovenije. From here also an explanation for the late submission of the draft law to the second reading, as the search for these compromises has required not only many months, but also several years. In the draft law, second reading, three amendments were tabled: two amendments by the LDS Group, which are more editorial in nature, to Articles 15 and 17, and of course we support them, and then the amendment by Mr Sok's Member of the 19th Article, which also wishes to include exhumation among specifically permitted acts. This amendment provides for an additional exemption from the protection regimes already provided for in Article 18 concerning the execution of exhumation in a cave, in accordance with the War Cemetery Act. Exhumation, however, is permitted in accordance with article 11 of the proposed law on the protection of underground caves when the cave can be defined as a war grave, in accordance with the rules governing the protection of war graves and no additional exceptions are required in this law. In a cave which is a war grave, all legal acts relating to the protection of war graves are permissible, subject to the principle of protection and preservation of caves. Therefore, we do not object in any way to this amendment, but we believe that it is unnecessary and does not belong to this law because matter is already regulated. We therefore propose that you support the bill and support the two amendments of the LDS Group. We do not support the amendment to Article 19, although, as I said, not because of the substantive opposition, but because, in our view, it is unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you, Minister. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. The chairman of the Committee, Branko Janc, will present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 46th meeting, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly 5.9.2003. The National Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 19th meeting on 25.2.2000, on the basis of the previous Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A written opinion was given to the bill in question by the legal and legislative service. It also gave an opinion to the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service noted that the proposal for a law was harmonised in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. However, it made specific comments on the series of articles to which the Committee then also drafted amendments. In accordance with Articles 126 and 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled and adopted its amendments, as I have already mentioned. The amendments were tabled by Mr Ivan Bozič, on Articles 4, 8, 15 and 16 and by Mr Alojz Sok, on Articles 4, 19 and 20. The debate on Article 4 of the Law's proposal raised the issue of the indication of the cave association of Slovenia as a umbrella organisation. The lawmaker explained that the Jamarska Association of Slovenia is not a representative of all the cave societies in Slovenia and the purpose of the bill is not to prescribe the obligation to maintain lobster societies. Data on caves collected by individual societies will be processed by the Crassus Research Institute. The proposed solution offered by the bill is harmonised and supported by Slovenia in its social and Jamaican relations. Similarly, the question of the cave as a cemetery containing human remains was raised and the possibility of stating in Article 19 of the bill that exhumation is carried out in such pits. Exhumation is permitted under the War Cemetery Act and the definition of a cave as a tomb of war was carried out in Article 11 of the bill in accordance with the amendment of the committee. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted the amendments to Article 15 of Mr Ivan Bozič and drafted 34 of its own amendments. The National Assembly proposes that the law, together with the amendment, be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you, Chairman of the Board. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. He will first introduce Alojz Sok for the position of Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u103	Dear Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague of the Member and Members! The Caves Act supports all caves in the area of the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, our Group of Members had one comment on the Committee itself. The question is whether this law has also resolved access to all caves, for at least one cave is known to have been considered a private-owned cave until this law is passed. It's in Koroška. Thus, we note that this law does not solve this issue, the very status of the land before this cave, which would thus provide access under this law. Thus this issue will remain unresolved after the adoption of this law. However, not to repeat, the law speaks of the use of caves, how caves are allowed to be used in tourism, cultural, scientific research and other activities. It talks about how caves need to be protected as biotopes of particular importance, how data is collected and to whom this data is transmitted, and who has the right to collect this data. As has already been said, the law, the first hearing, was carried out long ago in 2000. We are convinced that all those who have dealt with this issue have had enough time before us now, as the Minister has assured us, to have a comprehensively harmonised law and we will support it for this reason, even though I have already tried to draw attention to one unresolved issue in the first place. We hope that the law will not experience any general assessment when it is adopted, as Minister Kopač did at the meeting with the mayors in Halo and the municipality in the Middle Ages, that the law on the regulation of space is void that it is rigid. With these he defended himself, since the law does not allow interventions to the space in the field of extended residence. But what worries me the most is that the Minister, that the law is worthless and is plastered as ascribed to me as an Armenian Member who has made it clear to the proposed law that he wants to build and destroy agriculture. I think, Mr. Secretary, that's what I've just told you right now in front of the public because I have a chance. This kind of talk in public, in front of the mayors, is not serious, or you're known for saying something more than once, I'd say just that, ad hoc, which is then found to have been said in some context, but I'm actually warning you not to spread such untruths, especially if the one you're accusing is not present.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u104	Comrade Sok, is this the position of the parliamentary group that you are delegating?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u105	Yes, that is, of course, the position of the Group of Members. If the Minister says something like that, while the opposition here in this House cannot enforce any of its amendments, then this is a difficult sentence. That is why I see no other option than to tell him this here, even on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u106	I think you've been talking about the whole other law, and you've been using the rules of procedure a little bit. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia will be presented by Bogomir Vnučec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the difficult and urgently needed proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves. Probably also in this law, which we believe should have been adopted at least 10 years earlier, we say, better now than never. Because the fact is that there is a lot of damage done in the Slovenian caves at this time when this area has not been regulated, which is largely beyond repair. It is the responsibility of all governments so far who have not been able to protect this Slovenian wealth properly and in a timely manner. Supreme experts in the field of the study of Crassus, underground caves and the network of NGOs of their members have finally convinced the government that Slovenian caves are exposed to various dangers. This makes them very vulnerable and requires the adoption of a system law in favour of their insurance, which will also preserve this Slovenian underground wealth for future generations. The data that in the lower karst areas, where more than 70% of all caves are located, with the waste of contaminated already 20% caves are alarming. Due to the low level of environmental awareness and the lack of criminal and control measures, it is already common among people to reject a variety of wastes into caves, which, in addition to the negative impact on caves, poses a serious threat to karst groundwater and human health. Even in various construction operations in the karst area, when the highway was built, caves in large numbers were damaged. Some are also completely degraded. It is therefore necessary to define in the law restrictions on building operations which will restrict or at least control further construction operations to the extent that negative impacts on caves will be minimised. The popularisation of the visit to underground caves, in addition to other negative operations of the caves, has also affected uncontrolled and unlimited visits by so-called tourists without professional guidance and supervision, and we therefore agree in the Young Slovenia Party that the law also needs to define this area as well, particularly in the direction of ecologically oriented tourism, which will ensure as little disruption as possible to these unique underground environments. In the Party of Young Slovenia, by adopting this law, we want to stop or at least suppress the negative effects on the Slovenian caves, which are largely due to grave human intervention and which have caused several times more damage to caves in the past few years than nature has in all millenniums of its existence. We will therefore support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Franc Lenko has the floor for the position of the Democratic Party of Retired Members [[DeSUS]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-worker, colleagues and fellow Members! The proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves was already in first reading in 2000. One of the reasons for the long-term preparation of the draft law for second reading is the requirement to take account of systemic solutions under the Nature Conservation Act. Given that Slovenia has always been known by its caves in the world, the area of underground caves needs to be regulated as much as possible. It is important that caves are defined as the natural values of national importance and of natural public good, thus passing through caves from social property to state property, which is also in accordance with the nature conservation law, but it is not superfluous if we also stress this in today's law. Caves are very important objects of natural heritage, so they need adequate protection. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group, we have examined the bill and agree with the proposed solutions, although we ask ourselves on the other hand about the reason for the lack of interest in the Jamarian Union of Slovenia in order to be included in the law as a umbrella organisation, despite the attempt to keep it within the legal framework, as most see it as an association of all the Jamaican societies concerned and as an organisation with the most behaviour. In particular, the relationship is likely to be well - acquainted with information from the field. It seems appropriate to us that special use, except in the case of drinking water supply, will be carried out on the basis of a concluded concessional relationship. The bill is also a good basis for the effective promotion of Slovenian caves, as in principle it allows cultural and other events with which the caves will undoubtedly be closer to people living in the area where the cave is located, as well as other potential visitors. In any event, events should not go beyond the limits allowed, so they have an absolute advantage over the events of preserving the cave. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we ask about the possible range of compensation and criminal liability for excessive burden of caves, i.e. causing pollution that changes the natural properties and damage to the cave. As described by the Ministry in the presentation of the law, there is a widespread practice of dumping all kinds of waste into caves. The caves are dominated by household waste, vultures, waste bikes, mopeds, cars and so on. In addition to the entry into the caves of foreign substances through the entry pits, the negative effects of pollution of the caves are usually strongly reduced by the deposition of wastes into the karst underground and by this associated contamination of the subterranean karst. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that it is right and beneficial to investigate the responsibility of such activities while at the same time advocating preventive action against pollution. This is an educational activity on the importance of natural heritage and thus the underground caves. We believe that it is in the best interest to adopt the law as soon as possible and thereby to regulate the protection of the underground caves, while at the same time we see a proposal for a law to effectively protect the underground caves and we will support the proposal of the law in the Democratic Party of the Party of the Party of the Party of the Pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u110	The position of the member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, and I welcome you all very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law, as it brings new quality to the protection of our precious natural wealth. The underground caves are, on a global scale, a very recognizable feature of us, and therefore they are not only part of the uniqueness and interestingness of our local environment, but they are also a very valuable part of the world’s natural heritage. Caves are part of a mysterious world, which, if we take rare caves that are designed and designed for mass sights, is accessible only to the few and are therefore usually quite distant from the eyes and from the heart. Thus, especially smaller, less known and less attractive to the public, underground caves have not rarely exposed many of the actions of various lovers who, by their crushing in the underworld, cause much damage, both on biotopes and on other natural beauties that have been formed in the thousands of years and eyes of hidden processes. Each cave is an interesting, usually rather closed ecosystem, in which natural conditions have caused them to be designed for interesting grasshoppers and other structures, and in many there are endemic animal and plant species. Unsupervised intrusion into the cave world poses the greatest threat to cave beauty and specialties, especially the living world. Indeed, rare species of living are of particular value or special character, even more important than caves, which are in fact the largest attraction and also the most interesting market goods. A number of caverns, particularly in recent decades, have also been subjected to a wide variety of pollution or disposal of surplus and toxic waste, which certainly has not confirmed that we have a sense of the environment and of natural values. Many of these are also karst monasteries, from which water spread this luxury of pigland throughout the underworld and filled underground pools with drinking water. We also have a large and quality underground cave cadastre created by many generations of our caves. I believe there's almost 7,000 units on that list. This is very large for a small Slovenia, but there is still a lot of cave world unexplored and caveats still to be faced with challenges and research work. And our caves have another special feature, which is rarely found anywhere else. A lot of caves, especially in closed, hard-to-reach areas, are filled with bodies of victims from a recognized period of our past. At the same time, these caves are areas of mass seas and cemeteries. And the victims will become part of the cave's inventory under this law. These caves will also remain closed for research. However, the management of these remains indeterminate. It would be most appropriate for the State to take care of either exhumation or appropriate marking and insurance. For example, to identify and protect a narrower belt. Nevertheless, I am convinced that the law entails a significant change in the quality of the treatment of the Jamming Council, since so far unprotected and fairly free decisions have been left to the behaviour of concessionaires, administrators, visitors. It also regulates the protection, research, management and use of caves, access to caves and, of course, control. I hope that these provisions of the law will also come to life in practice. As has already been said, our parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you. Janko Weber has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. And once again a nice welcome on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. The Underworld is certainly one of the great challenges, both for research and for leisure. Of course, we are faced in practice with the fact that many times the lack of sense to preserve nature in these activities and therefore it is extremely important that we adopt a proposal for a law on the protection of underground caves and thus try to regulate this area legally, especially to protect those caves that are still intact and are open, carefully protected, either in the register of individual societies or associations and, of course, also in the research institute of Crassus. All of this process and coordination of interests is what is properly stipulated in this law, so that in the future we can expect that there will be no uncontrolled interference in this underground world, that there will be no damage to the holes found and that there will be no contamination of these caves, because we are still meeting too often in the last period, that such locations will still be used as a landfill of waste or other organic substances. This, of course, affects not only the appearance of the cave and the life in this cave, which usually also exists and has its specifics, but also reflects the attitude towards caves, especially through drinking water.Surely this is one of the biggest challenges, how to manage Crassus, and thus timely alert to pollution or potential danger that could occur due to such or other event in the cave itself, or in the immediate vicinity of it. Therefore, the recording of all these caves and, of course, the monitoring of the protection and determination of the regime, how we can see and what we can do around these caves, is truly extremely important. Of course, it is also very important to take care of the safety of those who carry out research activities, and also of those who view them in the caves that are set up, either as tourists or as those who are only interested in this sight of Slovenia, if we can say so. There have been a number of cases in history where research has ended tragically. It is therefore important that there is a great deal of emphasis on the education and training and equipping of those who are taking part in the exploration of this karst world. These experiences acquired by researchers who usually unite in societies are, of course, also an extremely suitable form to upgrade the offer of these caves, and at the presentations of this world, because only with well-equipped and experienced lobsters can we offer and market this underground world. That is why I think it is of paramount importance that, while at both national and local level, both trying to help these researchers, these societies in a way that they have the best possible conditions for their work. This work, of course, can be offered later in cases where, for example, there is an accident or similar event involving someone or a fall or a change in the current situation in a pit in a hopeless situation. Without effective action, timely information and also well-coordinated and adequately prepared equipment cannot be assisted in such cases. In addition to all these research activities, lobster companies are generally included in the civil protection programme, where the possibility of transferring their experience to other sites is also possible. Above all, it is also possible to rescue from high-rise buildings. It is therefore an extremely important activity, which must also be regulated by this law. Above all, I think that this will be a major contribution to preserving the nature of Slovenia at the level that we have today. I believe this level will even improve. That is why we will, of course, support this law in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u114	Ivan Bozič has the floor for the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't say hello to the government representatives. Colleagues and colleagues! We are also pleased in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that it came into the procedure of the law on the protection of underground caves. The underground caves are, in fact, a characteristic for Slovenians and also historically valuable. However, we have our views on this law, especially the fact that this law does not speak of people who have created in the world a familiar cave world with us. In 1689, Vajkart Valvasor described the first caves. That was the second description of a cave in the world. In 1889, at the end of the 19th century, when the largest companies were established in Slovenia, the cave company Antron was also established in Postojna 114 years ago. Today, there are almost no more words on the issue of bail in this law, despite the fact that it has a Jamaican connection - because the bailout did not cease to work either after World War I or during the wars, nor after World War II. World War II - about 1,000 members and has a lifesaving service. I remember them three years ago when the Tower beach was in Log under Mangrt and they were looking for the unfortunates in the floods. But in this marriage, the Jamaican union is no longer mentioned. We are a little surprised, despite the fact that there are 7936 caves, as many as there are on the list of the Jamaica Union of Slovenia, the headquarters of the International Philological Association in Postojna. It is a permanent symbol of the hole and the underworld in the world. Jamari have achieved that Crassus is the concept of the underworld in all languages, and this Slovenian name is Crassus. We don't agree that this is how the bail went out of the law. It's usually what's out of marriage, not what's out there. But I have some time to present my opinion on the amendments, so I'm going to finish here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you, Ivan Christmas. Alexander Merlo will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Slovenia in the world will first become famous for its Crassus, a region with karst phenomena in the hinterland of the Gulf of Markets. This province has given its name to all similar lands around the world. The fact that the world’s karst terminology, in addition to the word Crassus, summed up some other Slovenian expressions for karst phenomena is almost unimaginable in other professions. Slovenian underground caves, which are the most significant karst phenomenon, were among the first arranged for a tourist visit at all. Today, among tourists, the less well known cave of Glinica, as the first cave in Europe, has been the beginnings of regulating their legal status far back since, for example, the Law on the Protection of Rare or Slovenia's Typical and for the Science of Important Animals and Plants and for the Protection of Caves already in 1922 part regulated the area of cave protection. [[..]] Later, other laws followed, but no one systematically regulated the protection of caves. The Act on the Protection of Underground Caves is the first to systematically regulate the protection of caves in Slovenia, which is also the most important feature. The law provides that the protection of caves covers all activities that are potential threats to the existence of a cave, together with the cave’s inventory and the cave’s living world. These are activities related to the detection of caves, where special skills are required for the autonomous operation of the hole itself, further activities in the caves themselves, which are regulated by a specific prohibition system, a protection regime in the cave. This regime concerns restrictions on entry into caves, distinguishing between closed and open pits which, according to their sensitivity, are divided into caves with free and controlled entry. The bill also regulates ways of acting or acting in a cave and in principle allows the organisation of cultural events in caves, subject to prior agreement. In particular, the handling of caves discovered in the construction of buildings is also regulated, which is quite common in recent times. In accordance with the nature conservation system, caves can be protected by an insurance act. The protection of caves is also an adapted special form of contractual protection, which is called the custody of caves. For the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it is particularly important that the government, as a proponent of the law, has agreed with the interested public and the holders of cave data, arranged the collection of data on discovered caves and the filling of cave databases that meet the conditions for obtaining natural value status in the register of natural values. The proposed arrangement includes the Crassus Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts as the only professional organisation capable of collecting, processing and verifying cave data. The holders of cave data, such as the Jamaica Association of Slovenia, as well as any other legal or natural person, including Jamarska or other society, report information about the caves of this organisation, which are properly processed and communicated to us further. Thus, in our view, the bill systematically regulates the management of the register, including all interested professionally qualified individuals and institutions, from the inventor to the Crassus Research Institute. As this law has been drafted for the first time in many years to agree among Slovenian cavemen, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia estimates that the government has done an excellent job and that we have a good law ahead of us. As a Postojčan myself, I welcome and support his solutions, which will also help to protect and preserve the karst natural heritage and I want its implementation in practice as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you. Also the position of the Slovenian National Party. The victory of the noble deer, please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. I introduced the Underworld Cave Protection Act in the first term of 1994, and it took so long for the government to somehow kick together one thing and fix what it didn't like, and I won't talk about it in general, I'll talk about just one article. In the last review of the amendments of 25. 11. An amendment amending Article 15 has emerged, which has already been changed for the better and brings out the Jamarska zdru Slovenije. The amendment was tabled by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and, in my opinion and in the conviction of most members of the Jamarska Association of Slovenia, by Mr Simic, who is also at the Ministry of the Environment and, of course, at the appeal or landing of Mr Gustin, who, as I am aware, was without the authorization of the Jamarska Association of Slovenia to allow him to amend this law or article 15. In fact, Article 15 states that training for the autonomous operation and identification of this ability shall be carried out by the Association of Slovenia as a public authority. The fact is that the Hungarian Union of Slovenia is one of the first similar organizations in the world and that it has been told to us by the "fouž" of all European countries. Of course, some of the liberal democracy, and perhaps also from the United List, which will certainly vote that this LDS law should be adopted, is to privatise this matter and then give it to certain organisations, on the basis of a public tender. We can think about who's going to win this public contest. It is very difficult and very unlikely that this will be the Jamaican Union of Slovenia. Some gentlemen are trying and already want to get a cadastral cave in their own possession to market them and possibly sell them to Italians. Without a cave connection, they would have already stolen a whole range of marshes or human fish, who do not know what it was, from Slovenian caves, because they had already been exported to Italy by silent landing or by loud landing of some gentlemen who have also been expelled from the Jamarska Association of Slovenia today. That's great! And the Liberal Democracy, with its amendment, will delete the hole connection and will perhaps choose the one that, we think, will give percentages of exported human fish, especially to Italy. I think it's terrible what some people do. I must say, I am extremely affected by this article. The marriage could have been great, a model could have been if this last change had not been made by the Liberal Democracy. For in this way again we attach a wedge into the regulated relationship, through which private interests can then be enriched, as they seem. I think the Jamaican Union of Slovenia has done a great deal to preserve our caves. If it were not for the Jamarska Association of Slovenia, there would be no Slovenian caves, but the Italians would rule by them. In 1993, 1994 and 1995, the strengths were strong to do so. And it took a lot of effort to stop it. And this was not prevented by the Liberal Democracy or the United List, but prevented by the Jamaican Union of Slovenia. What is it now? Now it will be deleted by the Jamarska Association of Slovenia. They're going to delete one of the pillars of Slovenia. Right after the end of the century, or at the beginning of the previous century and the end of the previous century, this relationship was established. Doesn't that mean anything? Does that really mean we're only 12 years old? I think those of us who are Slovenians know we're older. But those who are Slovenian do not know how old you are, and be twelve years old!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u120	These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be conducted on the basis of a review of the amendments of 25.11.2003. We're moving on to Article 15. I give the floor to the minister who wanted to speak to you about this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. What we have just heard, of course, was based on a complete ignorance of the facts. The proposal for a law has long been coordinated with all interested parties, from the Institute for Crassus to the Jamarska Association and the individual lobster societies. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, where a proposal for a text which is now before you was drawn up, Mr Jordan Gustin, President of the Jamarska Association of Slovenia, who was involved in the debate - those who were on the committee, you know that - and opposed the text by which the Jamaican Union would explicitly enter into the law. Article 15 speaks of training for the autonomous operation of the hole. These proposals, where all of these would have been mentioned by the Jamaican Union of Slovenia, were somewhat different articles, but this amendment was adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure in my opinion because of the awkward conduct, I think, in the exercise of the vote itself. So this amendment by the LDS Group is, I understand, more or less than a correction of editorial character.This article speaks of training for independent lobster operation and speaks of choosing a qualified contractor at a public competition and of course concluding a contractual relationship with him. We cannot write into the law in advance that only one and the only one is theoretically some society from any Slovenian place is qualified. That's what Mr. Jelinčič is trying to say. Of course, the Jamaican Union is not one society to be taken lightly, I just wanted to give an illustration of what is required in opposition to this amendment. Therefore, I personally believe that the Jamaica Alliance will certainly be able to demonstrate at each public competition that it is the most qualified for education for autonomous lobster operation, but it is the government's view that individual organisations of a private and legal nature are not included in the law as those with the only public authority, but rather that someone who has a public authority is chosen by a certain procedure and, perhaps someday, those who are elected would not be able to do so satisfactorily, so the public authority can also be withdrawn. However, if the law describes him as the one and only one and he has this public authority, then, of course, part of the authority is transferred without return to a particular private person. That is why, of course, the government supports the LDS amendment. I tried to explain why it was not appropriate for a specific organization to write into marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you. Ms Silva Crnugelj has applied for the debate and has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well, hello, Mr. Secretary and a co-worker. I have also decided today to come to the attention of, above all, this because we are dealing with one of the laws that belong to a chain of system laws that protects and protects the environment. Among these are the laws on the protection of underground caves. Why is this law so important, and especially this amendment? Because caves are the ones, as well as the waters in caves that first detect environmental damage and environmental pollution. If we systematically monitor this area, for example, we can also detect positive or negative movements from the field of environmental policy, which have also affected this area. We can see and certainly count among the positive ones those listed in the report on the state of the environment for 2001/2002, since there have been a lot of activities in this area during this period, and we can say that quite a lot has been done. Through the Slovenian Water Conservation Fund, 34 karst caves were cleaned and restored by the end of the previous year. For this purpose, 12 million tolars have been used, which is not a large sum, but there is something to move forward, to continue partnerships between the Ministry of the Environment and some large companies, to read pollutants such as Helios and Petrol, who run these actions and also invest a lot of their own resources. These are those positive movements, probably a lot more. Unfortunately, though, the situation of water and pollution has not changed much for the better. Therefore, it seems to me that the proper definition of Article 15 of the Law, which clearly tells us what the role of the Jamarska Association of Slovenia is, that this is not a mandatory legal organisation for all those Jamaican societies in Slovenia, is that they have an obligation to provide data and reports on the state of the caves, including on their operations and on their functioning in this area. I think it is very important that cooperation between the Ministry of the Environment, the Environment Agency and the civil society segment be strengthened. On the basis of the report submitted by Umanoter, the Sustainable Development Foundation, the Survey to the Government, it is clear that all legislation adopted is likely to do so, and regulations require a lot of relevant and specific knowledge, and in particular a very high level of awareness of the lay public, which unfortunately represents an important unrealised task for all arbitrators in the chain. In order to fulfil this task and to protect the caves and the environment, it is not only legal regulation that is sufficient. Many cross-cutting coordination and implementation actions and documents are needed. The only effective long-term tablet is education. Unfortunately this takes a long time and the effects are slow, but the effect is permanent, read sustainable development. That is why I think we will support this article in the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u124	The victory of the noble deer. I gave you my word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just spoke to the representative of the Jamar Association of Slovenia and she told me how the minister convinced Mr Gustina. He was called to a meeting. He was washed for four hours, and in the end, Gushtin gave his consent to a different Article 15 and later Article 15 was amended as we had before us. In short, we can now expect that, in view of this, the Athletic Union of Slovenia will also be deleted, that the Skiing Union of Slovenia will be deleted, that the Air Union of Slovenia will be deleted, that the Swimming Union of Slovenia will be deleted and that these gentlemen from LDS will share in the long and long term in public competitions, where, of course, only their members and only their members will have the advantage. It wouldn't be anything new or anything special. The fact is, in this country, this is something to be expected. Mr Minister says that the Jamaican Union of Slovenia is a private and legal character of the institution. It is a union of societies, it is a very important thing because in this regard societies have been united for over 100 years or almost 100 years by all those Jamaican societies that are willing to do something in this area, not by speculators. The speculators either threw themselves out or went out because they saw that they had nothing to do there and, of course, through various Simic gentlemen and, like, through the Ministry, they then make such changes to make them laugh. Mr. Secretary must have gotten the hang of it. I don't think he went into this on purpose. I'm sure he's fallen for it, because if we look at it, the amendment to Article 15 was tabled on 17.11, so it's only a few days away from when it was changed. And I think that the LLDS should recognise that it should be for the Slovenian state for at least once, for Slovenian nature, but not just for its own interests. Why, I don't understand why and how that's possible. But even in the caves, you have to attach your dart to it, don't you? I'm ashamed of myself! I'm ashamed of you to do things like this. And you're saying there can't be any such organization listed. Everywhere else they are listed, in the Aviation Act, in the Sports Act. You have beautifully written athletic connections, ski connections, swimming connections. That's all right and all right. But here's someone, as you might say, who gave them the opportunity yesterday to get the money, "insinuated" and, of course, it's against it. And, of course, the ministry, which is a long and widely believed by some, has agreed on everything. I think it's a huge loss for Slovenian chivalry. I am sure that this is the beginning of the collapse of the Jamarska union of Slovenia, and I am sure that something will leave them, will not leave, but will go away because they will no longer want to be with the mills on the wind. The representatives of the cave association told me that they had enough. And they will leave it to the members of the Liberal Democracy to drive through the caves of an Italian tourist, and they will cut off their own pockets for a certain amount of money. And the Italians will have them in the gardens next to their thumbs. All I'm suggesting is that those bats change their faces, make sure the faces of some client presidents are better known where those trenches come from. It's sad! Sad and--I don't know, I don't know. The man asked -- and yesterday I talked to some journalist who said, "Victory, because whatever you say is whatever it is you say, nothing happens, and stealing is more from day to day." And certainly this thieving is not in the Slovenian National Party and certainly there are honest people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u126	Ivan Christmas has the floor to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I'm going to continue around the hole. Perhaps I would compare it with that of the lobster enthusiasts who created the cave world, described it, and prepared it. Just as volunteers had always established a new country; then they became veterans and went to the brink of events. And the lobsters are leaving the same way. I have at least two concerns about this myself. I am speaking in Parliament, and I have no intention of offending anyone, but I would like to say something. See, when we "pulled" the law on hunting for 5 hours yesterday, no one stumbled about the hunting relationship of Slovenia, despite the article 21 writing, the Union performs the following tasks - I will count only three - for the first time, organising exams for hunters, hunters and hunters and hunters' keepers; the second time, training, natural protection awareness of hunters, hunters and communication with landowners and the public and the sixth time, also the issue of hunting cards. This seems to us in the hunting law perfectly normal and right that it is. But why can't there be anything in the lobster bond? Why should there not be education, as I suggested and adopted on the Infrastructure Committee a few days ago, is not long. The text of the article or the text tabled by the Liberal Democracy Club, paragraph one - I really need to read it so that I do not say something wrong - "Training for the independent operation and identification and competence of implementation on the basis of the public authority of an organisation which is specially qualified and empowered to do so." If I were and am a little mean, I would like to hear which organization in Slovenia is specially qualified to raise lobsters. Can you name her for me? I'd like to hear that name. You know, I've been saying this a little bit, not because I've been too fond of the Jamaican relationship, but I haven't worked with her in decades. But I was one of Professor Habet's students 44 years ago in Postojna, who explained to us the beauty of the cave world. And I find it hard to accept today that all those who built the cave world to come to know the caves and Crassus in the world will no longer be mentioned in the law. Anyone who's not mentioned in the marriage is nothing. Try to register one vehicle that is not provided for in the law to be registered. You won't get a license plate and you can't do a technical checkup. It'll be the same for all the societies I've ever had that happen to her. The thought that Mr Jelinčič has begun must continue a little. I'm afraid we're going to adopt too many laws that will give all the rights, the ministry, to distribute everything they want on the call. This means only centralisation of all implementation. For if everything is only in the Ministry of Ljubljana and they are awarding and bidding for all the work that is envisaged in some law or that we will come up with to spend money, then I cannot defend it. Even though I am an advocate of the law, I do not feel comfortable with the fact that the Jamaican relationship has so rebuffed itself into a car that will last for a very long time. However, I note something - in the Water Act, I have warned that without water-based companies and by-product management companies, it will not work. And if there were no major floods in Kranjska Gora this autumn, we would argue today that we do not need these companies. Once the roads and villages are paved, then we remember that we had our jobs arranged, as we also had them arranged in the area of fisheries, when all the works were managed by the Jamaican Union of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u128	I give my word to Branko Janc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I would like to state in one part the reasons of my colleague Jelinčič as incorrect. The Infrastructural Committee has dealt very closely with the issue, with the amendment it has tabled, i.e. only with the idea of a colleague of Christmas, which he has already discussed. We are for these reasons - because we considered that the Jamaican Union as the umbrella organisation of the Jamaican societies is the one who could find its place in this law - for this very reason we also invited the representatives of the Jamaican Union to the meeting. The meeting was attended by the President of the Jamar Association of Slovenia and the explanation for why we decided on such a solution is not, or justification, not what Member Jelinčič was referring to, but is that the Jamaican Union does not bring together all societies, the Jamaican societies and the transfer of public authority to the Jamarska connection with the law itself would be deemed by the lawmaker and then, in the opinion of the Committee, also unfounded. Therefore, the amendment to Article 15 in order to grant powers, i.e. public powers on the basis of a call for tender, is, of course, one of the possibilities for the Jamaican Union as a umbrella organisation to appear and also obtain public authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you, Branko Janc. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u131	In fact, I am also one of those Members who do not fully understand why the Jamaican Union of Slovenia is now, if we are already adopting a system law for this area, being deleted from the law. I don't understand. I imagine it may be wrong, but I'm sure these relationships are probably not run by the right people, which is why this relationship is being deleted. For those who propose these solutions, and who, of course, have a sufficient number of votes to settle matters in your own way, you act this way once and for another time differently. Yesterday, when we passed the Wildlife and Hunting Act, of course, the Hunting Union of Slovenia, with all the powers it had to date, was also placed in the new hunting law. There was no problem. Today, when we adopt a system law in the area of underground caves, we need to exclude the lobster link from this law. On the Infrastructure Committee, since we have already seen this, there has been one failure that one of Mr Bozič's amendments, your coalition partner, could at least respect that. But, of course, there is still a possibility that if there is some slip, yes, under the terms of a slip, then this should be corrected and amended in plenary session. I do not see a serious reason why we would rule out the lobster link, and in New Slovenia we will not support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you. Bevk's the only one who wants to discuss it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was a member of the parental committee in the previous term, and I also performed on behalf of the United Nations Group of Members at the first reading of this Act in early 2000. I am therefore a little surprised at this debate today, but it is true that I did not participate in the committee led by my colleague Janc, where the representative of the Jamarska Association of Slovenia is supposed to say that he agrees with the LDS amendment to the 15th article that we have on the table today. Although I know that I and my former colleague Danico Simšič visited me in the National Assembly in the winter of 2001/2002 and lobbyed for this law and for this arrangement, which is now incorporated into this law by Christmas Amendment. The activities of the Jamar Association of Slovenia are extremely important. After all, a large number of lobster societies are united here. I myself know our company in Idrija, which is very active. During all the period so far, lobsters have entered and mapped more than 6,600 caves in Slovenia, and they are found virtually always new and new each day. And this is a very large, rich archive, rich cadastral, great knowledge, so I am very surprised, since when this change in the leadership of the Jamarska Kompania Slovenije to exclude itself from the first paragraph of Article 15 of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u134	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 15? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 15 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 19 and the amendment tabled to this Article. Who wants a word? Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u135	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister initially said that the government does not oppose this amendment, but as such it is not necessary. However, in our Group of Members, we believe that it is necessary. Look, the underground caves law is "lex specialis" for this area. And article 18 of this law speaks of a protective regime in a cave, says what is forbidden in a cave, and lists by indents. Well, then, article 19 speaks of exceptions. And as an exception, we have proposed that between these eight points, which are as exceptions and allow certain activities, of course, as point 9 also states that "in accordance with the War Cemetery Act in the Cave, exhumation can be carried out". So we're not prejudging anything, just in this special law on underground caves we're proposing that as one exception, which is allowed, this should also be written down. This would, of course, make the marriage much more transparent and clear, because the War Cemetery Act, mentioned by some, speaks only of the possibility of digging and digging at the cemetery, but of course this is the question of when human remains are also found in the cave as such. Of course, I appeal to all of us to accept this, because we have quite a few things in our possession and we will have to resolve this issue in the future. And in order to avoid different interpretations, it makes sense for us to write it down. Because the concept of caves as tombs already introduces the law itself, Article 11 states that the contents of the register of natural values are explained, including the caves mentioned as a war grave. Thus, this amendment would only supplement the law and possibly remove one of the ambiguities which could later be demonstrated in the implementation of the law itself. That is why, of course, I appeal to all of you, unless the government objects to this, that you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 19, tabled as an amendment? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 19 and the amendment tabled. I am moving on to Article 70 and the amendment tabled to Article 70. It was filed by the LDS Parliamentary Club. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on articles and amendments. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 9. This concludes this agenda item. At 13.50 a.m., we will continue with the 12th item of the agenda. Thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u137	We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Second Commentary Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Promoting Comprehensive Regional Development. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Branko Kelemino. With regard to this law, the Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the draft law. Please, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u138	Dear Members and Members! Although there is no Member, there are only a few Members. Anyway, thank you very much. The Slovenian National Story, titled "Success Story", also speaks of Slovenia becoming the most developed European country or country, as it is called "number one" in the EU in a few years. I think it's a wonderful story and it's worth the attention, as well as clapping. I also ask myself, and ask you, a respected government, for which there is no need today for the presence, respectable leadership of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members, especially by authority, to ask you in what way and how and by what means this success story or Slovenian national fairy tale should be fulfilled. Not by selling fog, I'm sure. Indeed, it has been more than four years since we adopted a law on coherent regional development on the promotion of coherent regional development. In fact, this law did not come to life, as we said at least a thousand times in the National Assembly [[Can you look?]] . If there were no specific laws, for Trbovlje and so on, and for some others, there would be virtually or substantially less resources in this area, I estimate, as was the resources for the demographic threats we had in the previous period. By means of this law, we have abolished funds to the demographically disadvantaged, at least as a source, to the municipalities in order to enable certain programmes to be implemented, at least infrastructure and so on, and today there are no such funds. In short, we all know that there are no effects in this area. Everybody put your head in the sand. The government in this area has done nothing, even though we have more than one year of the ministry in this area, nothing new is happening. Members of the government do nothing, and you know well that this area is not regulated as it should be. The leadership of the National Assembly does nothing. In short, nothing happens. The opposition's proposal, which is aware of the failure to develop Slovenia, the overriding centralisation, the underdevelopment of regions, the growing disparities between regions, unemployment, huge unemployment, and the consequences of joining the EU, is aware of this. And since it proposes some proposal, some improvements to the effective enforcement of a law, some strategy that we have put in place - you have accepted it, the honourable Members of the government - but nothing or this proposal of the opposition happens then of course you do not accept it and you reject it with your left hand without any successful debate. You have no idea how to resolve this issue. That's the saddest thing there is. You just leave it all together. I don't know if it's time for you or who's above you not to let you take this issue seriously and finally make sure that all these policies, if we already have them in this area, are effectively implemented. Now you are talking about that, given that you do not have your own proposal, this issue will be resolved within the next term. Now you're talking about your next term. I have heard these words not far from this at a meeting of the Economics Committee, where, if I am not even mistaken from the United List, the Member, said that there is no point in proposing any change in this area within one year. It is better to wait another year for a new authority to be adopted and a new strategy to be adopted in this area, or a new policy, and to adopt a law that is appropriate and can then be implemented. No, my respects, I think it's too late, far too late. Now you're raping us with some landscapes we don't even need. It's just a simple bone-eating thing. If we had serious intentions, with a projection of more coherent regional development, regions could be given a significantly greater impetus that would not require the establishment of landscapes at all. Only these institutions should be defined, as well as by a slightly better transfer of powers and functions, as well as funds to the municipalities, in order to better guarantee these tasks entrusted to them. In short, I estimate that we need the provinces, and that's just one simple rape and gnawing bone. My proposal or our proposal by Members regarding amendments to the law on more coherent regional development is based on some principles. Let me just give them a brief statement. The first principle is that the entire system of regional incentives, direct regional incentives, should be put at one institutional level. This means that we have a ministry of regional development, we have a regional development agency, we also know regional development agencies, maybe some kind of public fund for regional development or something like that. There should be an organization here, an institutional level from the top down. And nothing else. Today, regional development is being addressed by a whole range of institutions, from business centres, chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce, accommodating centres, who would know how to list everything. Countless, innumerable. Everyone's engaged in regional development, everyone's engaged in some incentives, but I think they're mostly dealing with themselves, maybe a little something small for their friends, for their colleagues. But everything else is a bit of a struggle. The following principle, then, is the first principle. The following principle, the second principle, is to pool all means of direct regional incentives in one place. The organisational form is not so important whether it is a public fund or a budget fund. This could be a matter of interest to have all the means of direct regional incentives pooled in one place, of course because of the cost-effectiveness, efficiency and transparency of control, some sense, of course no one does. Today, when we look at the situation in this area, we see that members of the coalition, or of the government structure, such as in the near future, Mr Pucko himself wondered where the review of regional direct incentives is. Where, for once, let the government give it that, of course, we will see what these incentives are and what the policy is in the field at all. In short, it's not a review, we've warned a number of times, but we haven't done anything in this area. The next principle, which, of course, should be taken into account in a more efficient coherent regional development, is that the basic documents for the development of all direct regional incentives at the annual level should be the implementation projects of regional development agencies. I mean, what's going on now? It is now the case that ministries, as they see it, make available, on the basis of their assessments or the options they achieve in the negotiations for the budget, for the following budgetary periods, certain funds, such as for regional development, but these funds are dispersed across ministries. No one has an overview of how these funds are being spent. They are spent through various calls, unorganized, uncoordinated, in short, an extremely large anarchy. The following principle is important, however, that we should ensure the level of funds, and that is at least 1 per cent of the gross domestic product of direct regional incentives for new programmes. I don't know who invented these indirect regional incentives. In short, it would be necessary to lay down some 5, 6 basic principles and build on these principles a new structure for more coherent regional development. This is the only way to achieve some successful implementation of regional policy. Unfortunately, this is not going to happen today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u140	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The result of coherent regional development in Slovenia is now known. Differences are much greater than they were before this programme and this law was adopted, and the fact is that these differences are increasing. If, as my speaker has said, we have received certain funds for projects in demographicly threatened areas before the introduction of this coherent regional development law, but today we can find that these stings are more or less spent by different agencies that have grown up to be mushrooms in the rain, and that this money is actually a matter of operation and little remains for actual projects. If I look at our statistical region, we have three agencies working on these projects to run for various cohesion funds and the state budget. The Economic Institute, then the Maribor Development Agency and another Bistra agency on Ptuj - I don't know how many employees, mostly, are operating large appliances, a lot of people who are costing this country a lot. The result is that there are no projects at the end, but if there are, of course, they run out of money. State Secretary Igor Strmšnik said that the government already has its own law, that they are aware that there is something to be done in this area; that they have put the law into inter-party coordination, or what you call it - supposedly, yes, in inter-party coordination. In the same breath, he said that they were waiting for the provinces to be established, that they would then even consider what those functions were to be transferred to the provinces. Well, if they are waiting for the provinces to be established, then the path to the establishment of the provinces can be long, especially because many also at the level of local communities are strongly convinced that such landscapes as the Ministry of Interior and Mr Bohince at the head are not needed in Slovenia. We do not need to, because they will represent just one more centralism, they will be very expensive and there will be no effect. And we're obviously going to be waiting a while for this to happen. The proposal by the proposers to focus on issues related to coherent regional development on both financial and human resources levels is therefore on the ground. And it should be that if we want these differences between regions in Slovenia not to be greater, that Prekmurje will not, for example, go any further and that the central area of Slovenia will not develop further to others than it will be - we have no objection to developing, but that this development will somehow be coordinated - we should do something in this area as soon as possible. Of course, we can see that the government does not have a strategy for this area, that it thinks and that it will think for a while before any decision is made. We are opposed to this proposal of the mother's working body. We are convinced that these solutions in this law, proposed by a group of Members, are good and that by the time the government regulates all that it thinks to establish the provinces and what it intends to transfer to the provinces, it is imperative to make a concentration in this area, not that these small funds are actually dispersed in such a non-transparent way and then there is no impact on development. We are also asking ourselves what indirect development incentives should mean, but the Prime Minister here has repeatedly heard that, in fact, indirect development incentives are both direct, but when the law was passed and when the law stated that 1% of gross social product was intended for coherent regional development, we were all convinced that this money would actually go towards direct projects in the demographically disadvantaged or the deprived regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Diaci has the floor. Mr. Stemberger. Young people's room, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree with the bill's proposal that effective reform of the policy of promoting regional development is urgently needed, as it has been shown in recent years that the implementation of the current law does not guarantee the expected results. The effectiveness of regional development is significantly lower than the needs, mainly due to two moments. Firstly, small budgetary resources are intended to promote coherent regional development. However, other organisations of nature are fully dispersed as those small funds intended for the regional development promotion programme are still so small that the effects of individual development incentives are not at all worth running for funds, as they have many times more costs than they can realistically expect from invitations to tender. Due to the systemic inefficient situation in the area of policy for promoting coherent regional development, the only real development policy holders of regional development agencies are many of which work very well. The regional development agencies that have justified their mission already have quite a few of them that have managed to draw up quality regional development programmes. In the statistical regions, most local communities have been drawn to cooperation in the areas covered by them, and interested companies and other regional development actors have also been able to draw on them. However, they all find that this does not benefit them much, as the government does not provide the necessary budgetary resources in the framework of real needs in the national budgets. As a result of the lack of budgetary resources to promote coherent regional development during the preparatory period for Slovenia to join the European Union, Slovenia did not make use of all the European Union funds allocated under the various pre-accession programmes, as co-financing of programmes by the State was a condition for the use of those funds. However, if no one has been responsible for this until now and these funds have been lost, it is unacceptable that this will happen again with large-scale resources to which, under similar conditions, in the State budget, Slovenia will be entitled as a full member of the European Union with the resources provided for in the co-financing of development programmes. We can conclude from the error of the past that a reform of the policy implementation system is urgently needed by promoting coherent regional development, since otherwise the funds that could be used by the European Union structural funds will remain in Brussels or will be successfully supported by those new members who are better prepared for this. In the proposed proposal, we see a step in the right direction in the Party of Young Slovenia, otherwise not comprehensive enough, but more when the government has done so. The establishment of legal frameworks for the implementation of all regional incentives at only one institutional level is certainly a step towards rationalising the implementation of regional development policy. The pooling of all resources of state resources in the single account, the item from which it would be distributed to individual regional development agencies, also allows specific aid to be sufficiently extensive to be paid to businesses at all. The proposal for a more specific definition of the selective award of public incentives to areas with specific development problems is also necessary, as the differences between statistical regions are so great that this affects all other areas that the development of the area requires to the extent that it has become the only prospect of young refugees from home as close as possible to Ljubljana, which is only additional water on the mill to the intellectual poverty of the Slovenian countryside. All the new developments mentioned are, of course, conditional on the budgetary resources needed for the programmes to be implemented. The law defines the minimum amount of resources for direct development incentives, which must not be less than 1% of the gross domestic social product, according to estimates by the Young Slovenia Party, the lower limit to be ensured, insofar as we want to function as a full member of the European Union in a competitive manner and in particular in the direction of reducing the major development gap between Slovenia and the most developed European countries. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Valentin Pohorec, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. If Slovenia were to be evenly developed, it is likely that a number of debates would fall away in all or in many other laws that we adopt in this National Assembly, we are discussing, deciding, whether it is to build motorways, state roads, railways, the issue of economic development, etc. But since this is not the case, these questions are always present, they are always on the wallpaper and they are also real-time. The gap between the less developed and the central Slovenian region is increasing and, once again, all the measures that have been taken through the current laws do not produce those true fruits, as well as the anger of the people, but also of us who are from these provinces in the national assembly, so it is justified and increasingly that we should do something more. Comrade Branko Kelemin tried to bring some solutions by means of his introduced law. I believe that he wanted to do well and that this is also the legitimate right of each of us to try to add something with his contribution to where the problems go most. But we have found on the committee that, as it is, it has so many unresolved issues and is not entirely enforceable, which, of course, leads to the view that the law is not appropriate. It is heard that the government is bringing, preparing its own law and that many of the solutions that Branko Kelemin has also ordered and covered in his proposal will be brought there and will be consistent with all the other laws that regulate our entire political situation so that it will not be contrary to what I know by the law on public finances and so on, and that this law will soon get us something. I justifiably expect that other laws, which in some way determine a certain limit for the rapid development of less developed areas, will also be built in this direction. If I turn to yesterday's decision that we have only one fund for voluntary, mandatory, pension insurance for public servants, I am optimistic that the seat of this fund will be, say, in Ljutomer, Tolmin or, I don't know, in Brežice. Because it would be the policy to do something in fact; that any allocation of these centres of power, such as the funds, would be transferred there, especially those who are being reestablished, which do not need to move. That would be a step towards action, in addition to what already exists, what we have. And because of these expectations that this will be introduced in the new government law, we will wait in our parliamentary group for such a legal solution and we will support the Committee's decision as proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thanks again. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I have already mentioned as a proposaler or on behalf of the proposer, let me also say on behalf of our party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, that we are also aware of and also how we are aware of the problems in the area of non-development of Slovenia, of this severe centralisation, of the underdevelopment of individual regions, of unemployment. That is why we fully support the initiative to move forward in this area, and that is why this proposal is on our side. Let me just say one more thing about the principles that I've already mentioned in the beginning. It is very important that these principles of which I have spoken, five, six principles, be respected as far as possible and then implemented. In fact, look, we have a strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, we have a strategy for the regional development of Slovenia, we have a strategic document called the 2002/2006 Development Programme Plan, if I am not mistaken, and some other documents, strategic documents that need to be implemented. Here are documents that are not being implemented and are extremely important, but should be implemented as part of a more coherent regional development, but not as part of. One of the fundamental principles that I failed to explain earlier due to lack of time is that they should become regional development agencies working on regional development today, public regional development agencies. I mean, what's going on today? Today, it is that the municipalities establish these institutions, but because they have to provide their own resources for this, we know that they themselves, especially those underdeveloped ones, are extremely difficult to survive, and that only rich municipalities can succeed in doing so, and that they can then set up regional development agencies with very inadequate staffing, including size, skills and so on, and then we find that these agencies are not qualified to produce very good programmes. The only way to train them is for the Minister to prescribe a minimum organisational scheme, depending on the size of the region and other needs, the number of experts needed to do so, which are civil servants, if you want regular bureaucrats, we will already train them at the local level to do what is necessary for regional development and paid by the State. At least in the first period, some two to three-year period should be paid by the State, and then at least, for example, the local community should contribute to the share and the share should be sought by the financial market. A combination like that would have to be created, but you don't want to do that either. I say, as long as it's not, these agencies will be ineffective. Only rich municipalities can afford agencies that are effective, which are strong in human resources, and which are already successful today. Then the principle of the level of funds. If we were to provide, say, 1% of gross domestic product per year of direct regional incentives, which is about 50 billion - but this for new programmes, not for those old programmes that are already being implemented or whatever, but for new programmes based on implementation plans - and that the basis for these funds would be implementation plans, then this would be the right effect. This is about 50 billion resources in the state budget for direct incentives, then there are EU funds that are not small in this area, local community funds, partner funds, because we know that this is a partnership between businesses, institutions, individuals, entrepreneurs and so on. In short, this fund could gather as a total of 200, 300 billion a year. And with that money, they'd make me a real start. What we are doing today, where ministries are providing 20 per cent aid for individual projects, is not yet for VAT. And it's not worth taking. That's what bureaucracy is all about. In short, we fully support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic, United List, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we believe that our current activities in the area of coherent regional development have not met our expectations. We are still witnessing development problems in most of the so-called regions. However, our estimates suggest that differences continue to grow. All of this, according to our assessment, is also due to the long-term process of regionalisation, as a measure against the excessive centralisation of Slovenia. And if there was no fig in our pocket when we decided to change the constitution in the field of local self-government, we are looking forward to a more favorable time for regionalism. For the purposes of regional development, we should devote less resources. There is also a need to pay more attention to the so-called European funds - despite the Ministry's assurances, I am not so sure. That the existing law does not allow for quality and coherent regional development, the Government also indirectly recognises that it is preparing a proposal for amendments and supplementing the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. Their proposal, as far as we are aware of it, is not yet sufficiently complete and needs to be changed. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are assessing and proposing that it would make sense in law to follow proposals that are substantively linked to the establishment of the provinces. One of their basic tasks, the future landscapes, must be regional development, through directly elected bodies. Regional development agencies cannot replace them. At the same time, we agree with the Government's view that a modern approach to promoting sustainable development, through cooperation between different sources, different levels - international, national, regional and local - and various development actors such as the country, social partners, regional partners, civil society and private capital should be ensured. It is also important to point out to the Government that the policy, development and situation in each area are the responsibility of the ministries, and that the government, in its opinion at least, is already focused on the same objectives as those of the proposers of the proposal, but at a much cheaper, less demanding, less conflictable and shorter path. Therefore, taking into account the Government's opinion and the legal opinion of our legislative and legal service, we will support the proposed decision of the Home Committee in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we actively monitor the regional policy and topics related to it. We are monitoring it at country level as well as at European level. The fact is that the law in force to promote coherent regional development is weak and does not meet the real needs and challenges of regional development. On the basis of the 2000 report on regional development, the government has set up a series of regional policy activities and actions, including the upgrading of the applicable law. It has also included the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development in the Government's 2003 work programme and has also put in place challenges for the improvement of the law. Nevertheless, we believe it is necessary to highlight some of the main, unfinished tasks or problems in this area: the adoption of spatial planning development documents, the spatial development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia and the regional spatial development designs in the statistical regions; the functioning of regional development agencies have, however, been exposed, but in the vast majority of regions they are understaffed, with largely unregulated systemic funding sources and are in fact unable to carry out all the required tasks because they have been burdened too much. The Programme Committees of the Regions are becoming increasingly important institutions and do not have the appropriate legal basis. There is also a need to mention development problems in some regions and significant differences between regions in development options. The differences in the competitiveness of the economy have not decreased significantly. The decline in registered unemployment rates in all statistical regions is also halted in 2002. Although the unemployment rate at the level of the whole of Slovenia has not increased, the unemployment problem has been further reduced in only five statistical regions. With regard to unemployment at regional level, there is also a positive trend in reducing the differences between the highest- and lowest-income regions. We believe that more or a key role should be given to municipalities in establishing regional development. The draft law, signed by First Member Branko Kelemino, significantly interferes with the current organisation of the system, as well as with future planning solutions in this area. We believe that there are also constructive solutions in the bill that would actually make sense to take them into account. Some of them, however, feel that the legal and regulatory services are also systematically questionable. Among other things, the proposer mentions a single concept of institutions at the regional level, as the current system of institutions is not effective because a large part of the funding is spent on the functioning of these institutions alone, which are responsible for implementing a coherent regional development policy at the expense of regional incentives for development projects. The proposal further considers that the implementation of regional policy is also ineffective due to the dispersion of funds between many ministries and development projects. This proposal seeks to achieve greater efficiency of regional development institutions and to eliminate unnecessary duplication of institutions, which is certainly a topic to be discussed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that legal changes are necessary to upgrade the current solutions. However, in the parliamentary group, we assess the need to take a systematic approach to the amendments to the law on coherent regional development. It is therefore necessary to give the necessary time and also to prepare these solutions, which will actually answer the questions raised and arise at that time. We hope that the government proposal will cover all the proposals and changes needed to improve regional policy in all areas. In doing so, we reiterate the need for municipalities to play a key role in the preparation of development projects in municipalities. Finally, let me stress the following. In no way should the statistical or development regions be a framework for the future establishment of the provinces. As regards the latter, it is necessary to first determine the jurisdiction of the provinces and, last but not least, to define the clear financial implications of the different number and size of the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Blaž Kavčič, Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u152	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! A coherent regional development is an area where there is no doubt still a few room for development in Slovenia. On the other hand, we have a number of reasons to positively assess the development of the system and the achievements of coherent regional development so far. In fact, certain roots for more coherent regional development have been laid decades ago, if we take, say, examples of technological development from the former Kranjsko Spark, which has systematically moved to other parts of Slovenia, especially to Primorsko and Dolenjsko. This is one of the examples that show that in Slovenia we already knew what polycentrism is in the past and that certain issues were to some extent well resolved or at least ready to be resolved in the past years and decades. Of course, as we say, the system must be further developed. Therefore, this proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law disappoints us somewhat because it does not provide for an analysis of the role of all actors in this area. For example, let go of the role of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the role of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which also have important networks that could play a more important role in coherent regional development. Another matter is very important, which is left to the truth by both the basic law and the amendment proposal. This thing is next. Money isn't everything. Even if we had unlimited amounts of money, this is not enough to allow for better and more coherent regional development. The missing category is an encouraging business environment. And it really needs a lot more attention. Since only an entrepreneurial idea, only respect for entrepreneurship can produce concrete effects in financial investments in the successful operation of enterprises, in well-paid jobs and in a sufficient amount of income, including for municipal budgets. As regards this bill, we must therefore find that it leaves behind the fact that the coefficient of variation between regions in recent years in Slovenia is decreasing. Moreover, there is too much evidence that certain solutions to this proposal are not systematically acceptable. In particular, I am thinking, for example, that the creation of a specific public fund with a public agency to promote coherent regional development, the full exclusion of sectoral ministries from the regional policy cycle and some other components of the proposal, and some of the solutions given by the proposal for amendments, are too vague. The proposal is therefore a little oversimplification. It is not difficult to agree with its basic intent and also to attract the criticalness of a high percentage of spending on the functioning of the incentive system itself. It is true that the situation here is likely to improve in the future through the greater scope of the incentives themselves. We therefore expect to improve this relationship between the cost of operating a system to promote coherent regional development and investing in the content itself. Therefore, due to these imperfections and shortcomings in the bill, we will not be able to support this proposal in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. And also a presentation by the Slovenian National Party, I think. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u154	Your Honors are here! We have never claimed in the Slovenian National Party that we do not have a system in this area. But we've always said that we have an extremely expensive system, and which is just as bad, if not worse, we have a very inefficient system. We therefore welcome every wish, every legal proposal to change the system. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want to change the system, and the fact is that the policy of this desire, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not want or follow it. According to our assessment, of course, coherent regional development should have been achieved in the previous millennium, if only there had been a little political will. Let me stop around the system first. If we look at it, we have regional development agencies and regional development programmes in all so-called regions. The first is the regional development agency Mura, the next Maribor development agency, in the next region, Koroška, RRA Koroška, Celje RRR Celje, in Zasavje, the regional development centre of the RCR. Further in Posavje Regional acceleration center Posavje, in south-eastern Slovenia entrepreneurship center Novo Mesto, development and regional agency in Ljubljana specifically for the urban region. Furthermore, the business support centre in Kranj, the regional development agency of the interior region, then we have the development agency of the northern Primorska and finally the regional development centre Koper. In addition, of course, before the recent establishment of the new government, we have also confirmed the Ministry, whose main task is to promote coherent regional development. The effects of all of this are, of course, exclusively and only in the use of money. There's no effect. So, this is what I wanted to show today's situation in this area. So, on the one hand, politics can wash its hands and say, "Yes, because we are setting up different institutions that swallow up budget money, but if they are ineffective, this is not really a policy problem." But as long as we have such an opinion, of course we will not take this step forward. It is the wish of the national party that the regions in our country should be brought to life and that they should be accommodated as consistently as possible, so that all regions have the same opportunities and that people in them meet their needs equally, and that the region can offer the region, or the area on the one hand. But, of course, Slovenian policy, as I said in the introduction, is not ready for this. Today we have a marriage that allows us two solutions. The first option is to adopt the law and thus try to change the organisation so far, especially in the area of savings, because we will no longer directly finance so many and so many institutions, but we will have one, say, logistics institution covering the other segments. Or another option, that is to follow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, by the way, predicts a change of law. However, the representative could not answer the question to the representative of the Government on the working body when this law would take place, even more, he did not know the mandate, the four-year mandate in which the matter would be changed. From this we can conclude that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not consider in any way one of the priority issues of the development of the Republic of Slovenia as a single country, but only the development of one region. This, however, can be said by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia gave a positive opinion on the proposal of the government parties that you have proposed, the so-called Main City Act, which, of course, in this country for all eternity, has predetermined that all institutions will be legislative, executive, judicial branches of government exclusively in one centre of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in order not to be all, you have also set out in Article 1 of this Act, to which we have opposed only the national party, that all the exposures of the various institutions of the European Union will also be one place in our country. And then I think that we can all ask ourselves honestly enough together whether you really are for coherent regional development, but when the tendency, those tendencies resulting from your vote, and of course the vote is our tool, pointing solely to one tendency to direct all the forces of development exclusively to one end of Slovenia. According to our assessment, this is, of course, an exceptional case of duality. On the one hand, you're changing the constitution. You know that article 143 allowed us to establish landscapes, but you didn't want that. You found an excuse not to let the Constitution allow it. On the other hand, we also met yesterday - that I will not go too far into history and that I will conclude - with a question of funds that would enable the development of regions. The proposal for an amendment was three funds. This National Assembly said no, we don't want, we want only one fund, and this one will be in Ljubljana. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for such a policy, we will not follow either the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the government majority. We will not achieve what we have set a goal for which we are truly following one, but only seemingly one, that is consistent regional development. We support Mr Kelemina's proposal in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision of the home working body in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 9. With this, I interrupt this agenda item and move on to 13. On the other hand, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on social protection. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome Minister Dimovski, Secretary of State and co-workers! I give the floor to a government representative to further explain the bill if the government so wishes. You've been predicting for five minutes. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The amendments to the Social Protection Act that we are considering today bring about a number of important changes and additions, which in particular constitute the upgrading of the existing social protection system and at the same time the harmonisation of this law with the solutions of other legislation. Among the most important news, I would like to briefly mention the following. Firstly, as a support for active employment policy measures, we would also like to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed recipients through this law, which is why we deal with the specific right of a subsidy for employment. We are fully regulating the award and termination of the concession in a new and detailed manner, so that competition between operators is protected while ensuring the benefits of users and their services. We also introduce rights to a family assistant for adults with severe mental or mobility problems, as continued rights introduced in this year by the law on parenting and family benefits. We also introduce some changes in funding, in the conditions for the management of social protection institutions, in the exercise of public powers and so on. As a last resort, we also introduce a social inspection, which, in view of the expansion of the networks of operators and the need for their supervision, is necessary and thus introduce the necessary powers of action in cases where this is necessary. We believe that all these changes are necessary and I propose that they be accepted or expected to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all those present with Mr. Minister in charge! The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the proposal at its 38th regular session 5. 11. A representative of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Policy Mrs Lidija Apohal-Vučkovic, Representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Representative of the State Council, Representatives of the Social Chamber of Slovenia, Community of Centres for Social Work, Community of Health and Social Protection Centres of Slovenia, representatives of SIOS and representative of the Society for the Theory and Culture of Handicap participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the views of the above-mentioned participants at the meeting. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. It points to the number of chapters, since a different nomotechnic approach must be applied in accordance with the emancipated legislative technique. It also made substantive comments to Articles 2, 7, 8, 9, 17, 18, 22, 23, 25, 26, 30, 37, 47, 51 and 57. Among other things, in addition to the editorial comment, Article 17 pointed out that the legal status of the institution's community is not defined, which should be further verified with regard to the provision of Article 121 of the Constitution. In accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons held a debate and voted on all the articles and amendments tabled by the colleague Silva Črnugelj at Article 2, Article 17, fellow Member Branko Janc to Article 17 and fellow Member Mag. A trifle to two. Articles 4, 15, 16, 23 and 31. The key debate on the bill was mainly held under Article 1 of the bill, which introduces new institutional protection and family assistants. Members of the committee discussed why the government had not decided on the concept of personal assistance. In fact, the concept of a family assistant means that this right of a disabled person is not actually individual because it is linked to family members. The State Secretary explained that the proposal for a law was to comply with the law on parental protection or to eliminate the inequalities against the law that had taken place with the law on parental protection and family benefits. The concept of personal assistance is still at the experimental level in our trial and is financed by the State and should also serve to legalize personal assistance, but in the law under preparation, and should regulate the various missing or inadequate rights of persons with disabilities in order to enable them to actually live an independent life. Furthermore, there was a broad debate on Article 2. In the discussion below, the members of the Committee also referred to Article 12 and Article 47 thereof, which provides that the body responsible for granting the concession may also withdraw the concession by a decision in order to reduce the requirements for the provision of services subject to the concession or to reduce the volume of funds in the budget of the concessionaire. The Committee did not adopt the amendments tabled by Comrade Drobnik until the 31st Article. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the above specific comments on individual articles, drafted and adopted a number of amendments and essentially regulated the law in the form of an amended proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First Master Janez Drobnič on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greeting to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! So, changes to the law on social protection, the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Of course, we've taken a deep look at this legal stuff. On the one hand, we can say that some of the innovations brought by this novel are of course welcome to Slovenia, as far as social policy is concerned, but we have also created amendments that would improve legal matter. The government proposal to provide a family assistant aims to compensate for the weaknesses of the parental protection law in the field of active employment policy for mothers with children and other things. It introduces at least partial possibilities of subsidised employment for family members who care for affected adults, namely the role of a family assistant. It is intended for the most severely affected adults with disabilities. The arrangement of a family assistant submitted by the government has several controversial decisions. The good news is that the most difficult aid is available to the disabled. Over the past year, there have been considerable difficulties in co-financing such helpers or aids. However, the weakness is that the provision only refers to persons with mental impairment and to persons with difficulty in movement. It should be pointed out that there are other disabled people living in this country, or persons with disabilities who, from the point of view of independent life, still need an assistant, blind, deaf, mentally ill - how will we address this issue? It is problematic to define this right that services be paid from the budget of a municipality which will not be able to meet this financial burden. The government's response was, not a large number of people, but then the problem is that we don't cover all the populations that need to be included in normal life, and then they are eliminated. The right to a family assistant would, on this proposal, belong to those who have relatives of their own. But the rest are not, which can also be constitutionally disputed, so the law should also introduce the possibility for those severely disabled people who do not have relatives. The question remains what will happen to residential communities in the future, as these services are cheaper, more accessible and provide greater opportunities for social contacts and for the independent lives of adults. This is a key issue that arises when an assistant is introduced. People or relatives who decide to be family helpers must realize that this will become a risky business. This is about the fact that this is not a real work relationship, so other problems will arise if they get sick, get old, are not fit to work, do not have enough years to retire, taking into account many small opportunities to find another job, and regress, leave and other problems will arise when implementing or implementing a legal provision, as the government party imagines. It is worth noting that this is not a personal assistant where the right working relationship with the right pay and all other rights, as proposed by some experts, is regulated by the basic law on the rights of persons with disabilities. The family assistant, as now defined, is essentially defined as the right of that relative to grant appropriate employment status. In this case, it is possible to avoid a constitutional assessment of the equality of other persons with disabilities to a family assistant, but this makes it a goal, that is to help those who will serve as family assistants. It is also necessary to lay out the conditions for the management of institutions because they are excessive and are not in line with European guidelines, as well as with some elementary experience in the management of institutions, so we have proposed a requirement with regard to the conditions of education by the size of the institution, whether it is direct management or indirect management, and in this context it is also appropriate to impose higher or lower requirements on the management of the institution. There is nothing that violates the principle of very good competence to run such institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič will present the position of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u162	According to the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party, the draft law has brought some benefits of the news, after which the need has been demonstrated for a long time, since the basic law on social protection, which was adopted in 1992, has not changed much, except for the changes in social assistance. Its implementation has proved to be quite a few needs that have not been covered by the law. Unfortunately, however, we cannot say that we are satisfied with the government as the proponent of this law. This law, as it did yesterday in the Animal Protection Act, unfortunately shows the government's lack of seriousness in the drafting of laws. This law will remedy the possibility that a disabled child has a disabled child under the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. The right to a family assistant who will be entitled to compensation for the loss of income and insurance will now be granted under this law to persons over 18 years of age. We also support the provision on the possibility of a third party as a personal assistant. We are aware that parents and relatives are primarily those who care for the disabled, but there are many disabled people who do not have relatives who care for them. The right to personal assistance is the right of persons with disabilities and, as such, should be enshrined in a special law. Unfortunately, the government has been preparing a law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities for years, and it is likely that it will take a long time for it to be adopted. Thus, if we are to enable persons with disabilities to exercise their rights, we must correct in a number of laws the individual articles that will need to be rectified by the adoption of the umbrella law. Thus, this law also allows third parties who are not related to a disabled person to become a personal assistant and this provision should only apply until the adoption of a law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons. Such doing is completely unrealistic and a mockery of every legal state. However, we believe that the needs of persons with disabilities are so important that this proposal for a law must be adopted. We also support a number of other developments that this law will bring. In particular, subsidies for undertakings in the event of employment of a severely employed person. These subsidies have already proved to be a good motivation for businesses in employment in the past. Unfortunately, the employment situation in Slovenia is such that already a fully healthy person with a high education and all the necessary qualifications is difficult to employ, let alone someone who does not have those qualifications. Therefore, the State's incentives through subsidies are more than welcome and constitute a new opportunity for these people. More than necessary and necessary, provisions on concessions have been introduced into the law, as these have so far been distributed on the basis of a regulation which is certainly not the appropriate legal basis for such an important activity. It is also important to introduce the possibility of inspection. A number of recent events have shown the need for inspection and the need for rapid intervention. This is particularly necessary because the award of concessions under this law is mainly for the most socially helpless categories of the population, the disabled and the elderly. As I have already mentioned, Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the bill, although we believe that some of the provisions do not belong to this law but are necessary arrangements, so we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Kebrich, DeSUS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. A respected minister with a companion, a colleague and a colleague! We have a united position in the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners on this matter. Our Party of Pensioners of Slovenia welcomes all concrete efforts that are part of the fulfilment and improvement of the social state. For the older population, this is very important, since a person simply needs social care during the third life period, which enables him to live healthy, vital life and to participate actively in society. From this experience we also understand other problems facing the younger generation today. Also at this point, we have repeatedly stressed that we support and advocate the implementation of the social programme of the country in which the areas, scope and functions remaining under the public care and responsibility of the State are defined and other objectives set out in the national social protection programme by 2005. In doing so, we estimate that it is high time to eliminate the unequal situation in providing protection for severely mentally or physically affected children with disabilities and to ensure that parents or others close to them can also provide assistance after the age of eighteen. This will fulfil one of the principles of this social programme, namely that the State makes it possible to exercise the rights to special forms of protection for persons with disabilities. This is also one of the social protection measures that ensures dignity and equal opportunities for all and prevents social exclusion. As regards the reactivation of those recipients of social assistance that are most difficult to employ, we believe that it is necessary to enable and stimulate every employer who will, for an indefinite period of time, hire those who have long been unemployed, thereby helping them to regain their self-esteem, which is likely to have been lost or even lost during their unemployment, and thus helping many families who experience stress and other pressures and other hardships. Although we have concerns about deregulation processes, we are convinced that the country must implement social policy through its own rather than more private operators. We therefore consider that the change in the award of the existing public service concessions, which provides that concessions can be granted for a certain period and not as before, only for an indefinite period of time, since the competition for this service will certainly improve. In this context or in this context, there is also a change in the chapter, which provides for the transfer of certain administrative tasks home for older and special welfare institutions to the community of the social institutions of Slovenia, which will simplify the unanimity of home arrangements for the elderly throughout Slovenia. For all these reasons and the fact that we are a party with a social sense that seeks social best protection, we are very vulnerable in this regard, and we want to improve this law, which is the law that governs these things, and that is why we will vote for it in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party is to be presented by Mr Tsukjat, who is not here at the moment. The position of the United List will be presented by Mrs Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u166	President! Nicely hailed representatives of the Ministry! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are considering amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, which are certainly among those laws that have survived a lot of changes and additions since their adoption. This one has had quite a few since 1992. This, of course, points to an extremely dynamic and diversified area which contains a range of rights that must be clearly and precisely defined, since sensitivity to the subject and the direct impact on everyday problems and human hardships are extremely large and important. The most important change in this law was the one that enabled the growth of private operators in the field of social protection and those who related to the whole chapter of monetary social assistance, which in many ways helped a large number of beneficiaries and enabled a decent life. The significant changes and additions are certainly among those that have an important impact on the regulation of this area and will be a major milestone for this activity despite the controversy of some debates. The Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits has granted parents who care for children with severe mental disabilities or severely disabled children from 1.1.2003 recognised the right to partial payment for lost income. Today’s law enables parents to exercise this right, not only until the age of a child, even after the age of 18, because unfortunately the reasons for such a defect have not ceased and probably will not stop after that age. This eliminates the inequality of the situation of children who are severely mentally or physically affected and introduces the right to a family assistant and allows for a choice between all possible offers currently in place in this area. Although the right to choose a family assistant is the right of a disabled person, it is acquired by a family member who also acquires the right to pay a minimum wage. While this part is controversial for some, it represents a major achievement in this area. The proposed amendment to Article 45 provides, however, for such detailed arrangements of personal assistance, but states that it may be carried out under the conditions laid down in this Act, which relate to a family assistant who is not a family member. It also states that these two options are not excluded, but it does not clearly specify which persons are non-family members and how and under which conditions they may exercise personal assistance, which is certainly necessary in particular in cases where a disabled person does not have a family member to care for. It is likely that the law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities will also talk more about this. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we note that the scope for regulating concessions in this proposal is much more detailed than the public service in the area of social protection, since this area is now regulated only by the rule of law. The division between the congregation and the country has been maintained, and all those questions that are problematic are always raised, how and how the congregations will be able to handle this burden. The practice so far has shown that, in particular, there has been little possibility of carrying out a follow-up activity when the concessionaire decides to suspend the activity. Progress, method and allocation are very detailed and defined. The chapter or articles defining the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure against the concessionaire shall be comprehensive and shall be very precise. In particular, a lot of space is devoted to the ratio of the bankruptcy manager to the facilities and the surrender of these facilities. In the Joint List Group we ask what is added and how are the protected and protected employees, or they too simply go to the duty of the bankruptcy manager to take care of their status. The law also defines the tasks of the Social Chamber as professional organisations. The control chapter is also updated and amended. It is clearly defined and defines what inspectors have to do to perform this function. There have been many debates on what conditions the Director of the Public Social Security Institute must meet. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are leaning towards solutions that do not encroach on this area and allow for a wider choice of professions. The proposed changes and additions will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much again for your word. The amendments and solutions introduced by the proposal for this law to the basic law on social protection are welcomed and accepted as necessary in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. At the time of the consideration of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on parental protection and family benefits, we have warned that it is necessary to recognize the right to partial payment for lost income after 18 years of age for children with severe mental impairment or with severely displaced children. The proposal of this law gives this right, in the form of a family assistant. Thus, the situation of a disabled person who was cared for by his parents until the age of 18 does not deteriorate, and the person who provides assistance to that disabled person can stay at home and receive a minimum wage payment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are confident that we will have to decide sooner or later that it will be possible, if we call this concern personal assistance, to offer the implementation to a person who is not a parent or a close family member. It is very reasonable in the proposal for a law to set up incentive money to reinvigorate those recipients of social assistance who are more difficult to employ. This will reduce people's dependence on social benefits alone. Such an approach promotes an active employment policy, which we consider to be good and worth welcoming. The proposal for this Act further regulates social protection concessions and defines the award of concessions as a public service. Our Group welcomes the approach put forward in this case by the principle of subsidiarity, which has an increasingly important note in the European Union, when a greater role in this matter is entrusted to the Social Chamber. We also support all the remaining changes brought by the novelty, such as the transfer of certain financial obligations in the provision of personal assistance from the municipality to the country, as well as the changed way of securing the municipality's claims where it covers the costs of social protection and home aid. We will support the proposed amendments tabled at paragraphs 15 and 45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you. It was essential that persons with disabilities receive the right to care and protection after 18 years of age. Be assured that such help is provided by parents, or by another close person chosen by the beneficiary as a family member. We know that the law on parental protection and family benefits makes this right possible only until the age of 18, and that there was an unequal situation after the adoption of this law. We know that, as proposed by the Government, this right is exercised instead of institutional protection. We know that the family assistant receives a minimum wage payment right and is financed by the municipality, while social assistance or personal assistance from the social work centre is transferred from the municipalities to the country, which is very much an emphasis on valuable information. It also made sense to arrange for concessions as public social services to be further regulated. This is said to mean that they are granted a status, a life period for a certain period of time, to be obtained on a public invitation to tender, to express the opinion of the Social Chamber in order to provide for the termination of the operation and withdrawal of concessions. In short, the relationship between the concessionaire and the concessionaire should be more transparent or even regulated. It was also correct that, with the proposed additions to the inspection offices, additional inspection offices should be able to place subsidies for employment and also to define ways of combining social security institutions into the community. However, the main intent of marriage is meaningful and there is no doubt that we would not support it. We agree with her. It is right that a disabled person has a choice - this seems important - of short choice, whether it is institutional protection or whether he chooses a close person, a so-called family assistant or a relative, even after 18 years of age. Undoubtedly, we have also thought about a proposal that has been repeatedly highlighted in this debate, which should have been resolved by a law on equalisation of opportunities, which foresees even more. We assume that the beneficiary chooses his own personal assistant. In this respect, it should not only be limited to family members, but also have the option of a third party who would not necessarily be related to the beneficiaries of the right to an assistant. It is a logical solution, which I hope will happen once in the future, not only because of the reasons we have heard today, but also because some people might prefer to choose independence, which is easier for these years, regardless of the situation, or because they no longer have to burden their parents, or because they are additionally burdened by their parents, especially mothers, who are the most frequent person of such care. The so-called third party, who understands that the policy intention in the future certainly opens up other issues, conceptually different arrangements, including the financial implications, is certainly quite something, but it is true that there are certainly several people who would choose to carry out such assistance, not only in the field of the unemployed, but also in those who have other impulses to offer such services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u172	In the national party, we estimate that the law is good, and that is why I will not spend too much time, and we also wish that any sub-laws resulting from the provisions of the legal content would be as good as possible and that they would be as easy or as good as possible in the form of a good relationship as possible, especially to the recipients of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you. Also the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Surely, who knows the fate of disabled persons from childhood onward, and the problems of parents involved, who love their children, have problems, want to offer them what is best, knows how important it is that this right of a family assistant continues even after the age of 18. From this point of view, of course, we welcome the law. We believe that, of course, I should have seen the light of Parliament a long time ago. However, this proposal has one beautiful error: on the one hand, it burdens the municipalities with a new contribution or payment of a minimum wage to this family assistant, which is, of course, a matter of relations between the congregation and the country, and on the other hand, it burdens the country because it terminates the disabled person or the time when he has a family assistant, he withdraws the allowance for foreign care and assistance. We feel that this is wrong because the supplement is added or is given to a disabled person more because of the material costs associated with all of this. The minimum wage is to compensate for the loss of personal income that a family assistant would have had if he went to work. Surely this work with a disabled person cannot be assessed, for it is not only 8 hours a day, it is Friday and a saint, it is afternoon and night. However, this minimum salary, which is intended for a family assistant, is regarded as a compensation in the sense that the insurance is also arranged for a family assistant. From this title, however, we believe that it would be necessary to consider that this supplement for foreign care and the potential of the most difficult disabled should still be maintained. Otherwise, we support the amendments that are given, both by New Slovenia and amendments by the government coalition, and we hope that in the near future there will be some improvements in this area, including the personal assistant and the rights that people with disabilities will thus realize. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25 November 2003. First of all, it's Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. In Nova Slovenije we wonder why we would exclude severely affected disabled persons from this family assistant system, i.e. those disabled workers under the law on pension and disability insurance if they met the conditions according to their disability. Then there is the option of choosing according to the government's proposal only for those who are related. Nevertheless, we feel that it is necessary to supplement the law in this way. I ask the opinion of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you. This Article introductoryly states that this right, i.e. the choice of a family assistant, is granted to a full-year-old person who has been seriously disturbed by mental development, that is to say from childhood onward, or to a full-year-old who has been severely obstructed by a person who needs help in carrying out all basic needs of life. It is not said here that there has been a movemental obstacle since birth. We think that's the right thing to do. For this motional obstacle due to injury or anything, a fracture of the spine in a fallout or whatever, may occur long before the age of 18, an obstacle is acquired, and if one day before the age of 18, then I wonder why it is not also a motional obstacle that occurred one day after the age of 18, or for all the severely disabled persons to whom disability occurred at any time in life. And if this is the case, if this is the case in terms of fairness, then the provisions resulting from, or rights and provisions resulting from, pension and disability insurance should also be taken into account. This makes very sense for us to introduce the amendment of New Slovenia and, of course, these categories as well, and this way of assessing disability is included in this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much. No more questions. Government response, please. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The Government disagrees with the proposed amendment because it considers that the problems raised by both Members will be adequately addressed by the solution contained in the third indent of Article 18a. For the first and second indents of this paragraph, the automaticity is considered to be a disabled person who is recognised by such a right, and this automation should be in the event that by the age of 18 the right of parents to partial payment has been recognised and in the second indent, in the event that the person has already been granted disability status under the Social Protection Act of the physically and mentally affected persons, which means that he has been found to be incapable of living and working alone. If the text of the proposed amendment were to be included in this indent, it means that such automation would apply to all persons who have acquired disability status under the law on pension and disability insurance and also have an allowance for assistance and service, but I must also point out, of course, that the status of the disabled person is not recognised in this way under the pension law. It reveals who else is capable of work and how much longer he is capable of work. However, the third indent, which is not automatic, means that any such person who is seriously affected, even if it is a serious traffic obstacle that occurred after 18 years, may be recognised as having the right to a family assistant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u182	I believe that you are dragging this dictated disorder in mental development and a severely displaced person out of another law in order to preserve the identification. But here I am interested in a hard-to-moving person, I've heard from some government representatives that they're also blind, deaf. Is that it? Isn't that it? What's it gonna be In fact, if the National Assembly is already accepting a dictatorship, let it be clear that there will be no arbitrary interpretation in practice. I hear it's a bit of a traffic jam. As I learn from my work on mobile obstacles, of course they are not sensoryly affected in this sphere. Sensually affected are deaf, blind, who are also in their lives, especially if there is any other impact on them, they need help from others for virtually all life’s needs. It'll be in practice, you'll have trouble here. I don't want to be the one who's causing any trouble, I want to be the one who's making it clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If there is no further debate, then I conclude the debate. And we're moving on to Article 15. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. I am informed that the government has also tabled an amendment to the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Who wants a word? Mr. Petty Officer first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u184	In our proposals, so in Article 15, we want to release unreasonablely high education conditions for the management of institutions. We have thought in this context about the different sizes of institutions. Where direct management is concerned, where there are fewer caregivers or fewer clients or disabled persons, or whatever we call those who are provided or raised or whatever, we consider such requirements to be unreasonablely high. This reduces the possibility that people who have a sense of direct leadership will also come. However, it is certainly in large organisations where it is a matter of indirect behaviour, where some types of behavior are also involved with people, and these conditions are more difficult. I also think that this association, the international association of institutions, proposes or suggests that there should be no excessive conditions for this sphere. Well, if the government decides to hire, or if someone else, to a place with higher education from a higher education, it won't be anything wrong, but to someone who has this sense of leadership in a small institution, let him, for God's sake, not put unreasonable demands on him. In particular, because university education is likely to be in this area, especially in terms of research, it focuses on research, analytical work, not leadership, but on leadership, but, as we know, non-university or higher education or perhaps something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you. Who wants another word? Mrs. Apohalov, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you. While we do not fully agree with the proposed solution in this amendment, we accept the argument that the solution proposed in this article is probably somewhat too universal. We do not agree that it is possible to lower the criteria for the management of social security institutions so low that social protection institutions can be run by even people with secondary education. This means that the directors of social work centres, in which each of the workers must have a high level of education in order for the directors to be employees with secondary education, could be totally unacceptable. I would also like to point out that the Government's proposal, as well as the amendment we are proposing, is clear in this respect that not only do we require university education, but it can also be a high level of professional education. As I have said, however, we agree that the possibilities will expand slightly and that is why we have proposed, with our amendment, that, instead of different levels of education, there should be a number of possible courses of education in those institutions where this is possible, and these are especially homes for the elderly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u187	Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u188	The solution that you are proposing at some point, namely the merger of the professional manager and the director, of course then leads to such a solution, on the path you have proposed. Now, if at least in large institutions a professional leader is separated, there is certainly a suitable profile for university education, for operational implementation, so as not to leave the pipe and that the collective works to keep the balance sheets good and I don't know what else, but this profile certainly doesn't need to be done. That's what we want to point out. In addition, the proposal for about 20 years of required practice, if someone has a higher education, is nonsense. You know, I can't agree to that kind of thing because it's unreasonable for 20 years. It's unreasonable. Everything that is needed for more than 10 years is inappropriate in our thinking. It's closing some doors. And of course we reacted to that, and in large institutions we could separate this function, the professional director from the director. Not in the small ones, but in the small ones, it's definitely not because who's going to hire them. This is gonna be expensive as a saffron. Whether the state will pay or will have to pay for natural persons. However, we must also cover how, what costs we will cause, between sensefulness and rationality in economic terms and expertise, we must have a position of place. Of course, we all probably want doctors, but that could be a loss of money. These conditions are too demanding. Compared to other countries, I assure you. That's too demanding. This results in higher costs, but it is not necessarily better quality.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you. I will be able to make my opinion easier by comparing it with other legislation. It is not long before we passed the Law on Safety and Health at Work, where there was a lot of controversy on the subject that the same conditions, the same requirements, the same burdens imposed on a multi-member group, for a company with thousands of employees, were passed on and passed on to a company that has one employee, where the entrepreneur is his own employee, let's say a farmer. It is funny that we write this legislation in any case on the skin of our former socialist thinking, large companies and also large institutions and so on, and we do not know the form of work that is perspective, which is alive, which is innovative, in small businesses, small institutions, small communities. I think it's some kind of enchantment of our legislation that we see elsewhere. And with this address, I think it is extremely important that we listen to all these arguments that have been given and I support the adaptation of all these conditions to the size of the institution. I think that so much understanding already needs to be shown by the proposer that there are, in fact, some other conditions in a small ten-member collective, as well as a hundred employees or 200 employees in an old-age home with five hundred and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you. Any other Members of Parliament? [[No, no, ……]] Yeah. Mr. Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Although I did not intend to advertise, there is no way I could go beyond the arguments we have just heard. I'll give you a comparison. Some logic requires quite a high education and a wide education for a pilot, say "jumbo jet". According to the logic that has now been heard, one small plane would be enough to have a primary school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u194	I'll tell you the next comparison, now that you're so picturesque. Do you think he's the best electronics doctor? No, no, no. You have to have the right profile, well, it's not there, but doctor electronics or doctor on high-strength networks or low-strength. I'm not going to explain this to you right now. It's about what kind of profile you pull out of the curriculum. No, I'm sure he's not better than that. The plumber is the best plumber if you give him a doctorate, if he has a PhD in electricity, he's certainly not a better installer. It's there, you know, that's why we have jobs, so we have higher education. Now I'm going to be warned by the chairman. I'll stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u195	Anyone else? No one else. Mrs. Apohalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I think that the director of the social security institution, who deals with people every day and is also the director of the social security institution, cannot be compared in any way with the installer or any similar profession. However, I am convinced that the solutions contained in the law in article 15 and also in article 16 allow for a concrete solution to be adapted to its size in a particular institution. Adapt in such a way that in larger institutions, where it is rational - whether it is rational - it is up to the founder, the state or the municipality, who is responsible for this institution - to introduce both functions. Both the professional manager and the director who introduces management. However, in smaller institutions, it is essential that these two functions are combined in terms of rationality and it would therefore be unacceptable for directors to have such a low level of education in small institutions, where the Director is also a professional manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to Article 45. I therefore put to the debate Article 45 and the amendments of the LDS Club of Members and of the Group of Members of the United Nations, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Who wants a word? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u198	In just a few words, I will explain the intention of this amendment or why it was necessary. It was necessary for that interim period to take place at a time when a right under an official obligation would be abolished, under the Parental Protection Act and the Family Receipt, when a disabled person was cared for by a family member under one law, to be reinstated if that is what the disabled person wanted, under another law. That's what this law says. In order to avoid any discomfort or irregular situations, it is necessary to support this amendment and also to rely on the interpretation that speaks of the fact that, if the person concerned no longer wishes to have a family member who had one before the age of eighteen, he or she may, at the same time as one of the parents who has the right to a partial payment or to such care, give an opinion and thus regulate this transitional status. It's actually some kind of nomotechnic, but at the same time an important supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u200	This provision is part of the so-called activative provisions, which this ruling coalition has repeatedly applied, until something is regulated by a single law that is not yet in existence because it has not yet been written in its head, in order that something will be regulated. This is exactly how it happens to us about the law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities, because, due to similar provisions of law, we have to amend the law every year and extend the time the law is passed. Such provisions are weeds in the field. Why didn't they decide to be a personal assistant? We said the arguments. This is precisely the problem, for some there is the possibility of a family helper, an assistant, and others not. And it is made possible for some, because they have relatives, but they have no relatives. And now, of course, I'm going back to the concept of personal assistance, and now you're going to write this, and then on the radio, you're going to hear that the Liberal Democracy has the most broad of breasts, as far as these social rights are concerned, because they're going to apply something over a period of time. Okay, you can write that, but I already said, it's weed in legal matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u201	Wider, please. Could you turn it off, please, Mr. Petty Officer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u202	Mr Drobnič, even if we had a solution to the so-called third party in a similar way, weeds should be in front of us, as you say, in the form of Article 45, because of the transition from one situation to a full-year period, which offers a different option, can be arranged without complications and, of course, also by the decision of the person who is in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I think Shirtz's colleague has already made a very clear prediction, I think, why and why this amendment. It actually regulates I think one intermediate period and gives a possibility, I think, also certain definitions. And I don't see, Mr Petty Officer, why are you so opposed to such a proposal, because if one thing is a little more reasoned and more detailed, it only means that it is to avoid new problematic and conflict situations. This is said to be somewhat more clearly defined. Of course, both laws, both the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act and the Social Protection Act, are extremely difficult laws, which have a range of very extensive and very demanding rights, which are very clearly defined and defined, and these rights, of course, also require certain clearer definitions and interpretations. As a result, this amendment is also intended to clarify the new situation of the transitional period from 1.1.2003 and the transfer of these two options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs. Apohalov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you. Mr Drobnic warned that the right to a family assistant should be problematic because the law would only be provided to those who have relatives and not to others. It is precisely this article, paragraph 45, and a somewhat clearer doctrine, which is now proposed by the amendment and is supported by us, that gives you the right to those persons with disabilities who do not have relatives. For them, this task, the work of a family assistant to the law governing personal assistance, may also be carried out by persons who are not their family members. It's about equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you. Who wants another word, please? No one else. Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote 15 minutes after the final debate on agenda item 9. This concludes this agenda item. We'll move on to point 24 at 4:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u208	We'll continue our work. Please take your seats. We have before us a motion for a resolution on the National Health Safety Programme. We're at 24. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. If I understand correctly, Minister Dimovski, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will present a supplementary explanation for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Government and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs for this supplementary explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to make a brief introduction to the resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work, which is prepared under the law on safety and health at work, which provides for the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a national programme setting out a strategy for the development of the field of safety and health at work aimed at protecting the lives, health and working capacities of workers, preventing injuries at work, occupational diseases and health problems related to work. The national programme takes into account both the international guidelines and recommendations in this area as well as the production structure and development and the social framework, which represents health, age, the education structure of employees, the scope and distribution of working time and the like of our economy. The material presents existing legislation with fundamental principles of safety and health at work and existing institutions operating in this field. In particular, the obligations, as well as the advantages that full membership in the European Union brings to us in this area, are presented. The main objectives of safety and health at work are, in particular, to reduce the number and severity of injuries at work, to reduce the number of causes of occupational diseases and diseases related to work and to improve the health of workers and workers. In order to achieve these objectives, the country's actions will need to focus primarily on managing traditionally recurring risks. Secondly, to manage the risks arising from new threats. Thirdly, risk management in experimental, particularly risky activities. And for the fourth time, ensuring safety and health at work with small employers. At the same time, there is, of course, a need to manage risks in individual categories of workers, such as older workers, young workers and young workers, workers who are working for a certain period of time and so on. The basic activities envisaged by the national programme are focused primarily on promoting safety and health at work, which includes raising awareness of the population, employers and workers, their education and training, and various basic application research. Another time. In order to establish and develop good safety practices in the form of non-binding guidelines and recommendations to employers and workers as a tool for implementing binding or regulatory requirements. Thirdly: to tighten supervision of the implementation of the rules. Important parts of the programme or an important part of the programme are also devoted to the introduction of special safety and health insurance at work, aimed at increasing the material responsibility and motivation of employers, ensuring safety and health at work and improving working conditions. The experience of other countries shows that the relationship in this area can be changed by the introduction of such insurance financed by employers and within which certain economic incentives can be created for those who provide better conditions in the field of safe and healthy work. This is a bonus-malus system based on investment in safety and health at work. The programme also outlines possibilities for examining legislation that would constitute a more favourable tax environment, in a way that would encourage employers to invest and other activities that contribute to improved safety and health at work. New rules on safety and health records at work will need to be implemented and an appropriate information system established. The records and the information system will have to be compatible with the system in other European Union countries. It also focuses on the future institutional framework, namely the Chamber, Safety and Health at Work, the Higher Education Institute and the Institute for Labour, Transport and Sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u210	This was a complementary explanation of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Government. The Chairman of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons will now present the report. Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President! Once again, I welcome everything very well. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the motion for a resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work at its 38th regular session on 5.11. In addition to the text or text of the resolution published in the Rapporteur 73/2003, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legislative Service of the National Assembly. Initially, like all of us, the proposer's representative further explained the content of the resolution and I will not repeat it here. The members of the Committee have received an opinion from the legislative and administrative service which, in accordance with Rule 27 of its Rules of Procedure, has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. The Legislative and Legal Service shall determine that the material transmitted for consideration is in conformity with Article 4 of the Law on Safety and Health at Work in the adoption of the National Assembly. It is also provided by the same Article of the law that the proposal for a national programme should be drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after consulting the professional public, employers' and trade unions' organisations, while the legislature notes that the material in question does not show whether and how the Government has taken this provision of the law into account in the preparation of the material. It is also not clear from the text which parts of the text refer to individual tables. The representative of the applicant replied to those comments. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the material was well and transparent and that an interdisciplinary approach was taken into account. However, the various national programmes - and also there will be no exception - note that there is a gap between the declarative and normative possibilities of implementing or implementing the national programme in practice. Representatives of the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Office for Safety and Health at Work also participated in the discussion. The Committee adopted a decision, which reads: "The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons has considered the motion for a resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a motion for a resolution in accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. He'll be a magician first. Janez Drobnič presented the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u213	Hello, everyone in the hall. Opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Resolution on the National Programme for Safety and Health at Work. The Law on Safety and Health at Work provides that the National Assembly must adopt a national programme or resolution on a national programme, which is a legal provision which, of course, we will not circumvent. Similarly, the International Labour Organisation travels or warns individual national parliaments or national governments that each time, by taking into account the social partners, they revise the policy on safety and health at work. We do not oppose the document as such in the New Slovenia Group of Members, but the document does not answer some of the important questions that we have already raised on the Committee, the Home Committee. It can happen, and it is predictable that this will be another document in a series of documents that will have no concrete impact on Slovenian policy or on the practice of safety and health production, only by lying in a drawer. Instead of an opinion, I would like to ask you questions that we cannot get answers to in the text. The consequences of this resolution, the reality; what you wrote down - what might this have to do with new jobs in state bureaucracy? What are the financial effects for the country, at least assessments should be indicated, or in which direction would some financial effects be shown? What are the financial and cost effects on the company if you implement certain plans or tasks of the programming scheme that you display in the material? How would other operators on the market, at entrepreneurship level, have an impact on the risks? How much will it reduce the sick if they do something? Would they be reduced, I don't know, by 10%, 20%? What about professional diseases, what about injuries at work if we did something in the context of this resolution? What do you write in there could affect the consequences of disability, the reduction of disability, the lower incidence? These questions cannot be answered. You can answer me that the resolution does not have the character to give answers or such precise routes. But otherwise it doesn't have any special value, it's just some wake-up call maybe for someone, but I don't think we need that kind of document. So this document is not possible to be rejected, but there is no great enthusiasm for support. Maybe we'll even support him. Somehow it follows those constitutional articles that we have had that have no special effect. But maybe people are attracted to them, and before Europe we will show that we have a document, a resolution on this, and maybe even those who will attend international seminars - they can be government officials - to show that we have it and what it looks like. Of course, practice could go a little differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u214	My friend Peter Levich is next. I don't see a sign-in at the gym. Mr Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, your coworkers, colleagues and colleagues. We have examined the material in more detail in our Group of Members, and we welcome it as such. Why? The national programme also reflected the part concerning national interest in this area - who has no national interest in ensuring that citizens, relatives, acquaintances, friends and others are as satisfied as possible. Of course, the greatest satisfaction is health, and we believe that security at work is at the forefront of this motion. With the development of technology, which wants to obtain as much time as possible for such or other products and consequently for the good, technology development must also be followed by protection technology. Looking back on previous times, protection at work was of secondary importance, as capitalists had an initial and essential interest to draw as much out of a given as possible in their favour. The working class, the employees, fought slowly for this as well, and the employers as such finally realized that it was also in their interest to protect the worker in the workplace as much as possible in the sense that he would be as healthy, good workers as possible absent from the workplace and thus be as efficient as possible in terms of his performance and as a result of the profits of the employer. Who is interested in the fact that health is the most protected protection against accidents in the workplace, I have illustrated this. We believe that in the national programme, in this resolution, certain areas are very well processed, and most importantly, how much will we stick to this, how much will they actually implement. If we take an accident at work. This does not only affect the accident, which causes him pain, treatment and dismissal, but also reduces his salary, his income. On the other hand, employers are subject to certain costs, and they are already subject to a higher unit cost of labour. That is why the country, as a community of citizens, is interested in having healthy people and that prevention is a basis, and prevention requires timely, early education, because only properly educated employees will be able to use machines, devices entrusted to them to work, and on the other hand will be able to protect themselves as a person from such and other accidents. Interesting data in this material is that life expectancy is longer. This is what we are witnessing, but what is happening in its own way, and it is not really, I will say, nowhere specifically published: why the lifespan of women is longer than men. This material even comes from, if now this life span born there in 1959 is such, the difference is good five years later, it will be born a decade later, I am speaking round numbers, this difference in life expectancy has become even two years longer. Thank you. I'm running out of time. There are a lot of interesting things to say, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, with colleagues from the Ministry of Labour! Contrary to some before me, I am confident and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are convinced that the resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work constitutes a diversion in thinking and approach to this area, and therefore I think it is worth further particular attention, because, for some time now, this Parliament has spent itself adopting a law on safety and health at work and there has been a whole series of different approaches, thinking and developing a single approach, which in some segments of this resolution has also been hampered and shows some new ways that we welcome in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Above all, that legislation in this area should no longer be so much to be unified, but rather to be flexible, to set goals and commit actors to achieving these goals and to adopt certain standards on how to achieve these objectives. This seems to me like an approach that on the one hand solves the problems of large, small employers and the different treatments of these employers. I think that such an approach allows for safety and health at work for large and small employers to be treated in such a way as to identify the objective, danger and measures. I think this must be the same approach for everyone. Of course, there are different paths and ways, even with regard to size. I believe that this resolution points in this direction. I would say that the Slovenian economy has been restructured, as has the rest of the economy, and that there are significantly fewer industries and more services, although we still do not reach some average in Slovenia. Therefore, the number of injuries at work would be expected to decline even in the event of technological developments. This is said to be due to less dangerous work processes, the number of injuries to so many and so many people would be expected to fall. However, unfortunately, we need to find out, and this resolution also shows, that the number of injuries in Slovenia has not changed in the last 10 years. This also shows the questionability of the current regime, both normative and of course organisational, and of course of the approach that has been adopted. I therefore welcome some of the solutions outlined by this strategy, particularly as I have already mentioned, that legislation should set objectives, that the employer should be flexible and that the profession involved should achieve these objectives. This seems to me to be a good approach, and here I feel that the existing law is too strong and should be upgraded within the meaning of this concept. Inspections, to which part of this resolution is also intended, are under-scheduled or placed in the mission of this advisory and preventive role and possibly a slightly over-repressive role. The inspection must take place in an environment in which it works, including an instrument to ensure the objectives, not just a whip that forces and creates the involuntary, resistance and rule-making. Therefore, I think that this preventive and advisory advisory role of inspection, as well as the inspection law, would be applicable, may also give a slightly greater weight to this strategy. It seems very important to me that this very highlighted and exposed novelty is a real financial incentive for employers to invest in safety and health at work by increasing the differences in insurance premiums and for injuries at work and occupational diseases. I think it is necessary to establish and to warn and warn about this for several years, almost 10 years, that there is no regret in the established, economic incentives which would encourage employers to invest in safety and health measures at work and that they would be aware of this at some cost work. The costs of ensuring safety and health at work are not among the lowest in Europe as regards Slovenia. In short, in Slovenia there is quite a lot of investment, but the proceeds of this invested money are overwhelming or, as I said, in the decade despite structural changes and progress, we have not been able to reduce the number of injuries, it is obvious that the collection of these invested costs to provide, is too weak or unoptimal. Therefore, it seems to me that these investment costs should no longer be applied widely, but should be targeted and encourage employers. It is also important that what is old and has emerged here as a red thread, equipping all means of work - machinery, materials, equipment - with relevant documents and designations. I think that in traffic and use there must be equipment, machines and substances that we know, that must have structural and other solutions so that they do not pose a threat or allow for healthy and safe work. The important segment highlighted by the resolution is information, awareness-raising, education and training. I think it is necessary to stress that these words mean nothing in themselves, unless we use them correctly, because we know these so-called rapid courses of protection and health at work, which are the same for metal cutters as for a cleaner, as for a hairdresser. Paper is important, and in the end, it is sufficient for a member of the law. I think it is necessary to think here and, of course, to create conditions for such an education, which ultimately results from the person who is educated or qualified, and not that it is just some formal prescribed obligation which, of course, does not produce any results. However, I miss an important chapter in this resolution, which neither encourages nor provides for any environment to promote, invest in technological development, modernisation, new equipment, new secure technology. This seems to me to be an extremely important chapter on safety and health at work, at least as important as the introduction of safety and health insurance at work. I think it's encouraging in a variety of ways. This is, of course, an interdisciplinary matter - it is not just a matter of the Ministry of Labour, especially the matter of the Ministry of Economy and other ministries - that appropriate incentives are, of course, introduced. And I see that it has also become a strategy, at least I hope that in numbers, not only in words, the governments of the Republic of Slovenia will be in the future; that in short, it will be a variety of economic incentives, stimulating investment in new technologies, safe technologies, technological development, better and safer machines, equipment, materials. Of course, a special chapter, which has, I see a great deal of room in this resolution, is the introduction of this so-called security and health insurance at work. However, I think it is necessary to stress here that such insurance must not be some new insurance and an addition to existing insurance and, of course, some new burden on employers. I think that existing insurance - under the current regime, these expenditure must be transferred to the broadest solidarity, as the current insurance is mainly governed by the consequences of accidents and occupational diseases, does not establish or ensure the establishment of measures to raise quality and, of course, raise the level of safety and health at work. And especially in the Tomora be directed to this new insurance and logically, as described, it is. In short, employers must feel encouraged, economic incentives to invest in safety and health at work through insurance, and if they do not have accidents or if their production facilities are estimated to be either safe or safe, their premiums are lower. This seems crucial to me that in this regard they have some incentive to invest in safety and health at work, in measures, in technology and in education, training and the like, unfortunately, Mr Minister, we are talking about this, I do not know if not for 10 years, but unfortunately, to date there is no such solution also due to problems, various problems, which include other areas of action, not only the Ministry of Labour, but not only those solutions have seen the world. I'm afraid, even in the future, they won't, because we know for ourselves what health-care deficits are, that it will be difficult to give up the share of basic health insurance or some of this broad solidarity health insurance at the expense of carrying out these stimulating, selective forms of insurance for safety and health at work, but that it will end up as a new burden for employers, and I think it would not be good. The objectives of this strategy or resolution are very clear. The objectives are to reduce the number and severity of injuries, occupational diseases, work-related diseases and health enhancements, to the extent that we can speak of this, of course - at least to maintain health. I hope, in the end, to say that I hope that the solutions that I have mentioned here and which I may have mentioned myself - these are, in particular, investments in technological development, technology - that there will be changes to the relevant national legislation and that they will also experience a solution in practice. Here, in particular, I am referring to the introduction or structural change of insurance to introduce in the share of insurance also these safety and health insurance at work and thus, of course, encourage employers to invest in these measures. That's why I'd end it. Of course, the resolution is, as such, I hope that it will not have an empty letter on paper, but will also have a few effects, because I would not want to read statistics and sentences again over the last ten years, that the number of injuries in Slovenia has remained unchanged - despite the fact that the structure has changed and that we have probably also introduced safer technologies, machines, equipment and some results of education, training and new legislation, but we note that unfortunately this number has not changed. I therefore hope that this strategy will bring a new wind, which depends in particular on how quickly it passes into implementing legislation. Of course, we will support this resolution on the national programme of safety and health at work in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Comrade Visjak. A colleague of Silva Montenegro will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-known representative of the Ministry. Today, we are considering a motion for a resolution on a national programme of safety and health at work, which has actually seen on the Committee that it has been unanimously adopted. The proposed document is certainly one of those documents that have been specially produced and produced for quite a long time. The concept of the document itself and the content of the area dictates a great deal of coordination, in particular a lot of interdisciplinary knowledge. The Ministry of Health also participated in the development of this document, which is very important, as this ministry covers several areas of safety and health at work. Let us only remember the areas of insurance and education for farmers, how many times have we had the opportunity to address their initiatives to extend the amendment. It is clear that it is much easier to describe and write in the form of a resolution and much harder to get into life. It is also true that it is even more difficult than that to change a mindset that is deeply rooted in many heads. And it is clear that we will need a lot of additional education, a lot of additional training, awareness-raising and encouragement, especially the promotion of financial nature, as this has been less in the past. Over the past years, in all these years of transition, we have witnessed a very intense process of changing the whole system of rules and also the rights of relations between workers and employers and the certainty of it all stems from a series of practical problems that also follow in the psychodynamics of relations between workers and employers. In the United List of Social Democrats, we will be particularly committed to the area of work environment, so that the working aids that workers need are in some way modern and comply with all the rules and standards. We are witnessing when our country and society are adapting and adapting to a new way of communicating and also to a new way of negotiating and also to new partnerships, that is, of course, a lot of change and a lot of new areas that need further improvement and action. In the United List of Social Democrats, we find that the document brings a number of important, useful guidelines primarily forward, since the purpose of this and the purpose of this material is to work forward. Of course, we support all those measures that are targeted. The document brings the highest value, proposing and recording the need to reorganise the safety and health insurance system at work after the bonus - malus system. There are legitimate concerns about how and how this system will be implemented, and this area will certainly be a tough one, as so far the realisation of this area has run out of power and a lot of energy has also been lost. We note from the United List of Social Democrats that the applicant has also followed the basic intentions of the National Programme against Poverty and Social Exclusion, as Slovenia has come into the situation of transition to a market economy to deal with many problems and problems, in particular social pressures that were once foreign. The solutions proposed provide the right basis for resolving this area, and practice will show how capable we are as a country and as individuals to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Health and safety at work is an area which, due to its many causes and consequences for the country and society as a whole, is very important. The absence of work represents a strong and strong negative impact for the country on the macroeconomic situation and the state's ability to ensure social security for the people. The area of safety and health at work is and must be a fundamental postulate of the partnership between the employer and the worker, irrespective of the type and size of the employer. For reducing and preventing both injuries at work and occupational diseases in relation to work raises the general welfare of the country and creates a positive climate both in companies themselves and in relation to the protection of a healthy environment. The key authorities of the country are aware of this fact, and it is therefore a matter for us to adopt a law on health and safety in practice that has been well received and, in essence, establishes a continuation of the permanent efforts of many institutions and individuals, who are strongly based on prevention as a key approach to improving the situation. The success and integrity of the implementation of the programme in the field of safety and health at work depends, in the firm conviction of the Slovenian People's Party Group, mainly on how many professions, institutions and various operators are interdisciplinaryly involved in this implementation, not least on coordinated pooling programmes. In this regard, we welcome the resolution on safety and health at work as a national programme, as a umbrella act, on the basis of which all further public regulations and types of other activities arise. Resolutions are a good and objective picture of the situation in this area, of the choice of objectives and of measures to achieve these objectives. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we have a specific comment on Chapter 5, the institutional framework on safety and health at work, and the allocation of responsibility in particular in the sense that the principle of subsidiarity, which is an increasingly fundamental relationship between the public authorities and the wider society in the European Union, should give the Chamber of Safety and Health at Work a much greater role and, therefore, a little bit of the status of reshaping and conferring appropriate public powers on it. For the first time in the context of the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the proposal for this national programme is adopted as a resolution following a single phased procedure, which, unfortunately, has failed to implement these comments in the amendment sense. We support the resolution and wish it a more successful implementation path or implementation in practice, as in the case of the National Health Programme by 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Colleague Majda Shirca will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u223	Respectable coworkers, respectable minister! National programmes set out a long-term strategy for a particular area - a kind of national vision they are, we have already found that today. They are touched together with the professional public, civil society, users, trade unions and others, with a view to later shaping, directing or prioritising the objectives and transforming them into laws and other acts, thus also into practice. There is no need for national programmes to really be reflected in reality, because they are often full of good words and general concepts, which are common precisely in order to remain invulnerable, in practice unacceptable. Such national programmes, which save but not save, are quite something. This one is different, I certainly hope to say, we hope to say that it is one of the good research that detects the situation and this state is the basis that paves the way for solutions and leads to solutions. It is of course a matter of determining the rights and responsibilities of employers and workers and of others and of course it is in the interest of health to have a harmless and safe working environment, to ensure social security in the face of possible health problems at work, and also before work, if I stress what the programme itself exposes, only preventative. And that there is as little damage as possible if I mention one of the last or one of the many goals that follow them. As few injuries as possible mean as few hospitals as possible and the data provided by the programme itself, the hospital stock data is certainly quite alarming for our area; at least that 37 000 employees are expected to be employed every day in the hospital stock in Slovenia, or that every employee is expected to be a percentage more than half a month for health reasons. But the most common cause is injury. These injuries are more than the absence of pregnancy, although I do not refer to pregnancy according to low fertility. For expenditure, to cover rights resulting from damage to work and occupational diseases, social insurance allocates funds of 0.15% and employers of around 1.53% of GDP. These are the numbers that are high. Interesting and certainly cannot be overlooked, including the indication that disability pensions are numerous and that it is those who state the causes of mental illness and muscle disease, bones, veins, and especially in women. And if we inject this data on data that the personal income of the female part of the population is smaller than that of men, it also brings certain conclusions that go, not only in this direction that women are less paid, but that they are particularly in difficult professions. That's what it says, in the textiles, medical, catering and other spheres. In short, the concern expressed today by pensioners that women live longer, let me add to the fact that just living longer does not mean that we live better. Also valuable are those data, which I cite and highlight because this data is used by the programme to achieve objectives or then direct measures. It is valuable to have information that says that in terms of safety and health at work is substantially better regulated in those who are employed indefinitely than in those who are in a fixed-term working relationship. Frapanten is a figure that, for example, in 2000, when about 130,000 people were employed, as much as 74% of those employed for a certain period of time. In short, safety, security and strength are clearly greater in employers who do not understand the worker as the bearer of as much as possible and as little cost as possible. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] It is also interesting, not new information, that employees in Slovenia are willing to work long hours, of course if this is related to higher earnings. And the extent of health problems is clearly greater when the burden is greater. Really? I'll finish it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u224	You live longer and better, but you can't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u225	We continue to say - at the same time, I will conclude with the fact that, with these and many other unspecified reasons, the LDS does not intend to have a dilemma in this law or resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u227	Your Honors are here! If we take the resolution as a kind of public statement on an important issue and the way forward and some consensus in society from a specific area, then it is right to adopt resolutions in this country. But it would be even better if such arrangements between different actors, perhaps in our case in Parliament, were to be maintained, of course. I cannot agree with the finding of one of the speakers who said that today's resolution expresses concern. I am sure that all public statements have so far expressed concern, and the second question is whether there has been more than expressing concern. I don't think so. Well, expressing concern about a particular matter is, of course, the easiest thing to do, it disappears and it sounds really nice. According to our assessment or my assessment, in particular this resolution, which we are meeting today, the proponents should put in particular those components that have been most frequently brought out in this national assembly. That is, if we have ever talked in the National Assembly about the needs of this area, i.e. the needs of occupational diseases or occupational safety, I can safely raise the issue of asbestos throughout this entire mandate and the previous mandate. Both on the home work committees, from the Committee on the Economy to the Health Committee, and in the form of the creation of different funds that financed the injured, and on the other hand the same legislation. Regrettably, the motion for a resolution on this case has set out - that is to say, this occupational disease, asbestosis - according to our assessment of the shameful little space. The fact is, asbestos in our country is that we can't figure out the exact number. Unfortunately, because of Slovenian legislation or perhaps on purpose, because we do not want to introduce people to their actual condition. I heard a while ago on one of the working bodies dealing with asbestos issues that even better could be done if we don't even offer people the possibility of finding out that they have the disease. For what is the result of asbestosism, we all know. And that the State may even intentionally permit or prohibit the detection of such a disease, unless, of course, the professional physician is the one to whom the employer directs him. According to the National Party, this is a very important issue that is taking place in all parts of our country, and it is particularly exposed in Primorske, Ljubljana and Maribor, and everywhere we meet with larger entities involved in construction, utilities, volcanicism, rubber industry and the whole of the automotive industry. However, the fact is that such examinations for asbestos in us are unfortunately only arranged through the referral of a so-called professional doctor to whom the patient or one who assumes that he has a disease can only come through the employer's mandate. So the problem with identifying this type of disease is that the worker cannot decide for himself because of his own need, so, according to the opinion that he has this disease to determine whether or not he has this disease. This - if I am evil and the emphasis is on "if" - is of course in the country's interest, because this type of patient who has been or would have been identified with this disease does not need to be compensated. According to some data, it's in our country, and it's been exposed to one of the parent labor bodies, over 20,000 people who could potentially have asbestososis if they could be examined at all and found through a specialized examination. According to our assessment, such a question, which has already been raised several times in this National Assembly by various Members, at least by government or opposition, should be the need for this issue of this occupational disease to deserve, of course, more space than it deserves today in the entire motion for a resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work. The question or word "asbestos" appears only twice in the entire text and never in the form of a solution to the problem; but for the first time, only through the fact that the European Union is slowly beginning to realize the issues and problems of asbestos, which we have been quietly aware of in Slovenia for a long time, because the fact is that we construction materials or semi-products containing asbestos have had a lot of time in our production as well as the so-called development of the Western world. On the other hand, the question of asbestos or asbestos is highlighted by the resolution itself in the event of noise, stress and physical effort. Personally, even when I was only looking at a resolution - or when I was talking to our member Sonja Areh Lavrič, which I am also apologizing at this point - in this area, this issue would be particularly worth a bigger place in this resolution. So once again, according to data, it is assumed that no one in this country can figure out the number, nor can the patient himself determine whether he has asbestososis or not, because we have such legislation, these patients are about 20,000 people in our country. They are mainly exposed where they work in their working relationship - and I will stress again - behind construction, utilities, rubber industry, car industry and similar industries. I am sure that, if we really want the resolution to have something more to do with us, when only a beautiful copy that could be made public or in our case - which is very modern - convinces the various European institutions how we care for protection at work and for occupational diseases, we must, of course, turn this resolution into some form of compulsory referral. According to my assessment, the first thing we should do - and this was exposed a good year ago - would be the question of sending a so-called professional doctor. Or should this remain exclusively and only within the employer’s jurisdiction? My answer is no. In short, according to my assessment, the country should not hide asbestos disease because it knows that compensation would cost too much or too much, but if we were very generous in some other area in the area of compensation, I think that this generosity would be appropriate. However, not to come from the said matter; we must say that, despite all the shortcomings, I think that the resolution will be adopted by this State Assembly, because it has no other choice. In the final stage, unfortunately, once again, this is a purely beautiful writing. However, much prefer to have at least within the National Party to actually win, not to be misunderstood by anyone, but by a term, a ministry plan, a government plan, when we will meet with all the problems mentioned, which have come both to the National Assembly, plenary session or, on the other hand, to different working bodies or are exposed to different symposia, and to meet with their proposals for a solution. However, I am so afraid that this is another document, which is only adopted for my own sake - or I repeat - only because of the European Union's likeliness. In the National Party - I do not want to sound used - we will of course give a positive light or voice "for" such a resolution with bitter taste. For the fact is, even if we accept it, there is no harm. It is important to stress from this place that, even if we accept it, unfortunately, there will be no benefit. And I have always been opposed to solving certain matters in such a way that only an act is adopted because of the act itself and not because of its content. I estimate that once again the Slovenian policy, made up of both the Slovenian Government and the Slovenian Parliament, has missed the opportunity and that there should be only one exposure in this act - I have highlighted only one, this is asbestosozo - probably many more. Unfortunately, as the other representatives have said before me, so will I: we will support and next time we will meet with a new resolution that will not be similar in anything and will not save in anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u228	Good. These were presentations of the views of the groups of Members. We will now go to the debate of MEPs and Members. Comrade Petty Officer, you want a word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. There is still something to be added to this resolution. I asked myself questions about this. The baseline data are, of course, in there. What is the cost of employers compared to other countries, although these comparisons are difficult and I believe that they are not easy to do, nor are they uniform because the principle of defining the disease, then the injury at work, is only slightly different, and the coverage of costs. However, in this resolution, it would have to be done on a case-by-case basis - what will be achieved by this resolution - on key parameters, on key indicators of safety and health at work. This is necessary so that we can ask you next year how far you have come. Of course, it is more elegant for you to write it like this, because next year you will deliver one more resolution. It is not about how we will play in front of viewers or listeners here, especially whether we will achieve some key results in reducing the disease, in reducing the disease, in reducing the disability We will never eliminate them, we will never, but if we are a modern society, we must eliminate those key reasons for disability, for disease, for disease, for abuse of the disease, for compensation and on the other hand we must be prepared for the modern and new challenges and new diseases that occur at work. [[...]] They're showing up. Especially the radiation of allergies and other things. Are we prepared in terms of detection and measurement as well as compensation? Does the white book answer that question? I would strongly recommend that concepts in this area, such as medical and occupational, ergological and medical ones, be taken to look at what is in the white book, what the government envisions. Yeah, are those things consistent? In line with the objective of social policy? See, Minister Keber or the government, that no one would mind, has sent a white book, and is talking about universal solidarity and the withdrawal of private funds from insurance. On the other hand, in the pension area, we are opening new funds or these pillars of the state, then that complementary and completely free - to include other types of funds. Are these systems connected? So that Dr. Keber doesn't go one of his policies and you go yours. Professional training. Vocational training may not be so important in this aspect of health and safety at work or is not directly linked - as you mentioned professional rehabilitation. Were you hoping to write, for example, that next year we would double the involvement of people with disabilities in professional rehabilitation? If we did that, it wouldn't even be such a terrible number because you'd get 500 out of 250. And if you compare how many new disabilities are annually defined, then you find that this is the minimum share. Far from what they have in Europe to return those who have been injured, who have become sick and have permanent consequences, to work in order to re-engage. It's a huge economic potential, a human potential that needs to be safeguarded. But on the other hand, don't waste money. In order to wait for the time of professional rehabilitation and employment, I think there are around 15 to 20 billion in Slovenia. Can you imagine that money? Well, he spends a lot more on other ends. In particular, with one swing, the government issued a new bond quota in 1991 to "save" its 25 billion tolars, but it is not justifiable that we should not discuss this in this area. Yeah, hospital stocks, I didn't see any targeted, good ones on that, how you're gonna do it. I mean, what you're going to do, not what you're going to do; and I didn't expect that, because it touches other areas, but at least some of those goals. In short, in vocational training, you mention that the new year begins with another chapter concerning the forgiveness of persons with disabilities. It does not start because the law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities has not been prepared in time. He was prepared, New Slovenia's parliamentary group submitted him, but the ruling coalition rejected him, but did not prepare the law in time. Of course, the minister will now mention that his social partners have thrown stones under his wheels, or they have stuck sticks in his wheels. If he does not comply with the social partners, let him be as he expects him to be sent to the National Assembly. Let him argue. Okay, he went into it, but that's why he's got the consequences: that there's no marriage ready. He's not in yet. I hope he'll be in next week, because if he's not filed next week, we'll reinvest him. I've told you so much. Because it's not possible to put these things off every year. That's not serious. Promises, promises. There's something in the previous agenda that we'll have assistants, I don't know when. These are the so-called provisions on the stock, which only have some pretty talk about what's going to happen, but we don't know when, if there's money for it. In short, 200 people in vocational rehabilitation are absolutely understaffed. Flexibility of the working relationship. Even for the disabled. Nothing here will be heretical, I tell you, if you introduce greater flexibility in the forgiveness of workers as well. On the other hand, if you significantly increase the set of acceleration instruments, to encourage a return to employment. If you have only an instrument of protection against forgiveness, but do not have the appropriate instruments to promote return, you have failed. That's it. There will be employers against it, there will be disabled people, those who are unemployed because they will not come in. The only people with disabilities who are on the job will be happy to freeze to that place. But that's not the right solution. Vocational rehabilitation, training, retraining and knowledge are the largest guarantee for the job to be maintained. Because then the employer will seriously hold him because he needs him because he's good and they'll represent themselves. Such are modern policies. Squeezing. In terms of radiation, this will need to be prepared in terms of standards. Well, that'll do for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u230	If I have correctly understood my colleague, he would like to make a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr President, I think this will be a procedural, procedural issue. If I am not mistaken, today we accept for the first time a national programme as a resolution in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I don't think I'm wrong. I have asked little and it is as a national programme in the form of a resolution this is the first time. However, a number of questions have arisen regarding the procedure for adopting resolutions on national programmes, as the national programme is ultimately a document which is a strategic developmental, future-planning act for development in a particular area, not least in the field of health at work, or in the field of motorways, or in the field of culture and so on. The procedure that we have in Parliament is, of course, one-phase, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but in some ways we act as if we have a short-term law before us, and it also limits the opportunity to table at the meeting itself, after discussion - Mr Brenčič is also talking about - perhaps even some amendment that would be necessary to design and prepare in the third reading, let us say, we do not know whether this is a third reading. In short, there is a lack of clarity about the procedure for such important documents as the adoption of a national programme, so I propose that the business group be defined as to whether it is a form of treatment that is similar to or equal to the adoption of legislation after a reduced procedure. We know that the law is adopted after a reduced procedure when minor amendments to the law are made to a specific segment. If this is really appropriate for the national programme, or for the motorways waiting for us at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u232	Good. What is essential is that you did not object to us working against the rules of procedure. You asked yourself whether the Rules of Procedure made sense or made sense of it. This is not a matter for discussion right now. In college or elsewhere, it would make the most sense on a business committee once and for all to meet. There is also the President of the Business Commission, if there is an opportunity for this, we will also say a word to the College, not here today. You have to understand that, Comrade Auschwitz, so I'll give you my word. Comrade Brajc is not in the hall, Comrade Kontic, you now have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. In the past decade, we have found a very different attitude in Slovenia to the issue of protection and health at work. Although much attention has been paid in previous times to the issue of job protection and technical conditions in order to ensure safe work, we must remember, however, that even in many factories back then we also knew the reverse clinics where workers and workers were able to handle most of the issues covered today by the basic health network. These ambulances and their employees were well aware of the work processes, knew the employees and workers and their health status and knew the possible risks faced by the employees in the individual factory. Regrettably, the change in the system and the introduction of too many liberal market relations in the majority of factories has been swept away by reverse outpatients, but also by a number of special labour security services. Indeed, many bankruptcys in the largest companies were also responsible, where these services were also best organised, but in particular too little social concern has greatly reduced the safety and health of employees. It took many years for us to adopt a new law on protection and health at work in 1999 which represented a qualitative shift in the attitude of the country to these important issues, on which the health of the people depends, on which many people are affected by health and social security, of course the costs involved, and last but not least the productivity of the employees and the amount of absence from work that is not negligible. We've heard that before today. Many employed people have found themselves in impossible situations in terms of protecting their health during this period. The new owners of companies that wanted to become rich overnight also took responsibility for the consequences of poorly regulated working conditions, i.e. for irregular working hours and for the many accidents and occupational diseases caused by these risks, to take advantage of them. This will change with the new legislation, of course, but it will take years, according to my assessment, for us to focus on health and safety at work with the active participation of employees, professions, trade unions and with much greater willingness of employers. It seems to me that the modern concept of safety at work, which extends the concept of safety, also to maintaining health and satisfaction at work, is gradually being re-established. Action is being taken to improve health, which activities in the areas of health, nutrition, recreation, active recreation, the learning of healthy lifestyles, better use of leisure time and so on. We must not forget that at times in more important factories, we have already had more to do with these areas than is present today, where many workers and workers in several shifts and at times of violent rhythm survive beyond the regular work of many overtimees. Let us remember that we have had paid facilities for sports recreation of employees, that we have already had heavily subsidised opportunities for the cultural involvement of employees, that we have had many holiday facilities, which have also provided the worst paid with active holidays. I am sure that and also the wise employers of many of these quickly abandoned so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called schemes should be restored, as only healthy and satisfied workers and workers will be required to achieve their higher profits. Health reform is also in preparation. It will also raise health issues at work and the question of how to maintain the health condition of the population that provides safe survival through its daily work or the survival of older people, as well as educational and development opportunities for younger, young generations. In these discussions, we will certainly draw attention to the importance and responsibility of the association in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to create conditions that will allow for a different attitude towards health and health at work in preventive care and with awareness-raising activities for employees and employers. I therefore welcome the resolution that has been tabled, and I also see it as an introduction to a better attitude of society in general and in particular of all those responsible for health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Comrade Contic. I can't see my buddy. My friend Patch, would you like a word? No, no, no. My colleague Sok wants to discuss it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. Thus, this resolution lists many important forms that, of course, serve to protect health and safety at work. Thus, I will not count them in kind, but when I go through this resolution with the mentioned form of insurance, which is supposed to contribute to this goal, then promotion of health in the workplace, education of workers - certainly extremely important, legislation that will certainly be further strengthened in this area and the overall institutional framework, then supervisory institutions, which must certainly be properly and well trained if they want to monitor this area, are mentioned to the employer in order to improve the situation in the labour process itself. What I think is -- I have to say that I did not exactly read this because it is a very extensive document, but when I look at it quickly, it seems to me that there is no emphasis on the measures taken by the State to encourage employers to introduce, I don't know, cleaner technologies, to introduce such work processes that actually contribute to the protection of health and the protection of workers. I am most afraid, and I also know some of the workplaces, I fear that Slovenia will actually defend the introduction of these unclean technologies due to its economic weakness. They are actually moving to us from Western Europe of technologies that are banned in EU countries. We can be seen precisely because this legislation permits this, and of course it is difficult to expect that with many measures we will be able to protect workers like insured workers in the countries of the European Union, because we are economically weak because we need new jobs because we have a large unemployment rate, etc. However, if, of course, we are going to start implementing these measures so strictly, then I am afraid that there will be a number of job redundancies. That's one thing. The second point I would like to draw attention to, and which has been discussed several times in this Parliament, is, of course, the Health and Safety Act at Work and the agricultural area associated with this Act. I am convinced that safety and health approaches at work must be flexible and considerate enough. It cannot be the aim of any measure simply to issue a certificate to obtain a document regardless of whether the person involved in the implementation process itself is also to take anything away from it. I think of the so-called declaration of safety at work, this issue has now settled somewhat, but at the outset this declaration of safety at work in agriculture actually meant nothing more than one astronomically large cost, which did not in fact represent the effect that the introduction of such a measure would have. I am missing from this resolution in this extensive document too, I would say, a slightly more analytical approach. You are talking about a new labour law, and it would be very good if the Ministry assessed the effects of this new law on the issue we are talking about. Indeed, in this regard, I would like to mention some of the things you have written down in this resolution, namely, the dignity of the worker at work. I think that as little dignity as workers have at work today, they were blind in the past. Today the worker can be forgiven at any time, there is a reason and regardless of his working abilities, regardless of his age, even his economic status, etc. You're talking about stress. It would be good for the Ministry to assess, in view of all these reforms, all these changes in labour legislation, how this modern stress affects the number of hospitals, how it affects the occurrence of modern disease and the absence of work. I think that all this legislation, which has been adopted in this last period, has in many ways influenced this and actually also contributed to what you have written down; that the health and safety situation at work, as regards the number of injuries, has not changed in the last ten years and, despite all the measures introduced, remains more or less at the same level. This is an alarming information in this resolution and this should mean for the Ministry that action is needed. Let me get this straight. So it's just new regulations that will, of course, be. Then the increased powers and extended competence of the Chamber in this area, the introduction of special insurance for this area, the promotion of health in the workplace - all of which, of course, will not be enough unless the State introduces more incentives through tax legislation, so that Slovenia will change more technologically, so that new technological principles are introduced in Slovenia faster and reduce disease in the workplaces through this form, because it seems to me that this is the only real measure and in this area we have not done so far. Unfortunately, once again, this area in this resolution is not covered and it is a shame that Members in this part of the debate cannot [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] with my initiatives - I will conclude immediately - if possible, as we have such rules of procedure, my proposal, which would be included in this resolution. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u236	Good. Of those reported here, there is no one in the hall. I understand they don't want to discuss it. The government is present. Secretary of State, would you like to explain something? Please. Then I'll ask if anyone else wants a word before the time is up. But first, you have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I'd just like to make a few points. The document is, for the first time, the result of the work of various actors, including the social partners, including the professional public, including the Health Safety Chamber at Work and, of course, the two ministries, our ministry and the Ministry of Health. A colleague who is here with us today also comes from the Ministry of Health, which means that these things are, of course, also consistent with the White Paper or with documents produced by the Ministry of Health. Secondly, it seems important to me that we cannot look at the resolution itself, or the national programme itself, excluded from all other documents, but it is a rounded system from the law on safety and health at work to all the implementing rules in this area; and these rules are not limited, they are also the ones they have warned about. For example, Member Petty Officer said radiation and so on. The fact that we have these regulations in this area are made of noise, vibrations, radiation, various dangerous substances. Indeed, this document does not affect other areas where the rules, which are purely technical or medical in nature or in the field of occupational medicine, do not prejudice the fact that this document also affects education, policy, tax policy, financial policy and the transformation of the social insurance system. I agree with the findings and, of course, the fact is that this also stems from our programme, that the situation has not changed significantly in the last ten years or that these injuries are in fact constantly the same. And that things weren't shrinking. There's something she needs to be seduced. In the past ten years, we have fundamentally transformed some large systems. Some of our large economic systems have had safety and health quite well regulated, including good services in this area. The small employers who were created did not invest primarily in safe and healthy work, but their financial contributions were intended for other areas. It is also important that we focus on those who seem more sensitive within this national programme. In particular, even certain industries, as well as those types of employers, where we have seen that these injuries are more or that the infringement is more or that they are problematic and need to be given more attention. In relation to this Chapter 5, which has been alerted. The institutional framework and the role of the Chamber of Health at Work must be said. This chamber was created relatively recently. It was drafted on the basis of a law on safety and health at work. We want to encourage this Chamber, and we want to give it certain powers, but the Chamber must mature to such an extent that it can actually exercise these public powers. And when we give her some authority, and it is likely to occur in the near future, the law on safety and health at work will also have to be amended. So we are aware that the role of the Chamber and these professional institutions in this regard must be strengthened and, of course, given a certain role and a more important role through public powers. As far as asbestos or asbestos is concerned. There was some talk about that. I'd like to say something. It's not really a problem with the current rules. Asbestos as a dangerous substance is prohibited. Its use is prohibited. Restrictions on what is still in place with regard to its use are limited by the Regulation on Safety and Health at Work with asbestos. However, the fact is that all these problems, the consequences of the disease, asbestososis are due to the period when we have neither had nor these rules, nor to the restriction of this asbestos work or the use of asbestos production. And, of course, even from the time that neither really nor the other professions were aware of the danger of asbestos means, so this is actually about everything that Mr Pece was talking about, to fix things behind us, that we have very good things in the current rules. Of course, we bear the consequences of the past when things were not so arranged. Maybe another final practical conclusion. The fact is that the effects of safety and health at work are long-term; both the effects of what we are proposing today and the financial effects. They are not short-term, they will be long-term, they will be long-term, and in this sense this resolution is actually made. This is a software document that is intended to provide more attention to the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u238	If I still stop, but like everyone else, I can interrupt you, Madam Secretary of State. As a matter of fact, we still have a few minutes to go. My friend Patch, I'd like a word. Anybody else want some? Well, then you have, say, five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u239	I'm afraid you misunderstood me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u240	Hiccup. Just a moment, someone else, because that's the way to determine, who else? No, no, no. You two, five minutes each. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u241	I don't know if you understand me correctly, and of course I would like to have as much health as possible, as much safety at work as possible, and as few occupational diseases as possible. I have spoken solely of one, but we need to know that, of course, according to the specification, 61 professions of diseases are registered or defined as professions of disease. The fact is that the resolution on these occupational diseases does not speak, and I personally miss, or expect, that these diseases are repeatedly spoken of, but, of course, that the public would be particularly aware of, particularly, those who may be exposed to such diseases and that the policy would create the best possible measures to minimise the level of such diseases. On the other hand, I miss that there are not even 61 occupational diseases listed in the resolution itself, but it seems to me that if we are already adopting such a thing, it should be at least defined inside. My purpose was not critical, my aim is to allow people, especially employees, to do as much work as possible, and of course to do as good work as possible, so I also cannot agree with all those speakers who basically came from the source to suffer from the absences of sick and similar things. I think that this should by no means be the third or fourth or the hundredth argument for such a resolution, especially everyone here today should talk about health and safety at work, in particular taking care of the human being, not that the work suffers. This should not be a motto for either of us to vote after such a resolution. Understand my comments both on the various committees and today are well-intentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u242	And then the government wanted to, mag. The little guy gives up, so now you have the last word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u243	I thank you for your words. I'd like to point that out again. This is actually the end of a series of measures, some regulations, and only one part of this resolution needs to be seen. What you were talking about: professional diseases are prescribed by the rule. The type of regulations is that talk about safety, health in a particular area, with individual substances, in individual environments, in specific areas. That is why, of course, this resolution does not summarize it in this way, and that is why it seems important to me. There is a law on working relationships, there is a law on health at work and a type of enforcement regulations. And there's something else that's possible because I have two more words to say right now. These problems Mr Sok has discussed, technological problems, outdated technology, these fears are, in fact, superfluous when we enter the European Union, we will not be able to work with these things. Those who have such outdated technology imported at any time before or import it this year will no longer be able to use it will not be allowed to use it. Here are the rules of the European Union and also our regulations, which we are now adopting, are extremely strict and also extremely strict.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u244	Okay. If we don't do this for the National Assembly, I'll give you my word, Comrade Sok, for a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u245	I understand that, and I find it extremely difficult what can happen. However, I would like to know who in the country will be the one who, for example, will close the plant with 1,400 or 1,000 employees. Well, this is going to be an extremely serious matter. Therefore, should this start to take place in 2007, as you said, the country should now provide sufficient financial incentives to actually restructure this technological process. In other words, it's going to be a disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u246	Do you want to answer that question or do you want to answer that question? No, no, no. Then he'll stay on this rhetorical question. This will conclude the general debate on the motion for a resolution. It will be decided today, after 15 minutes after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, with which we will conclude the work today, it is Dars, we will vote. By 6:15 p.m., we will suspend the work of the National Assembly for a short period of time. This will be a proposal for a law amending the law on the financing of education and education; it will be a law tabled by our colleague mag. It's a trifle. Until this bill is considered, I will order a recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u247	Let's get back to work. We're at 15. Agenda items - PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS TO THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION The bill was presented by our colleague, Member, Master Janez Drobnič. With regard to this law, the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Well, first we'll hear an additional supplementary explanation from the applicant. Please, Master Petty Officer, you have the floor. Then I will ask the government for its position, and then the representatives of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all in attendance! I also welcome the representatives of the government. If you allow me, I will therefore present a complementary opinion, but at the same time this will also be the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the introduced law, because I am in a very hurry now. The law is introduced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It contains all the necessary elements, is also meaningful and necessary. The reason for these changes is the benefit of the state and the citizens. It is therefore necessary to remove an unnecessary provision which forces the reorganisation of kindergartens without financial or benefit, or the quality of the educational process. These changes, which are contained in the bill, will not affect the quality of the educational and educational process, but will value implementation, which is also important. An individual approach is not ensured by reducing the size of kindergartens as such, by increasing the number of principals and other administrative staff, but by the size of groups, by the skills of educational and educational staff, and by the commitment of people or co-workers to work with children. The amendment of the provision of the criterion of maximum number of departments does not necessarily mean that kindergartens need to be combined. In accordance with the criteria laid down by law, the founder may provide for an optimum solution at the cost of business costs and decide on kindergartens with a smaller number of departments. The key point of this provision in the law is that whenever a kindergarten exceeds the number of 30 sections, there are also some exceptions, it must necessarily go into reorganisation. Such a provision is unnecessary. We are also dealing with these amendments with the role of the Minister of Education in the appointment of directors. If he is responsible in some sense for education and education, he must also have a place in the appointment of principals. In order to express his opinion on the appointment. Of course, the quality of operations of kindergartens, as I have already said, is not affected by the administrative and technical personnel. That frame needs to be reduced. Some things, however, which are not necessarily necessary in kindergartens to be carried out within public institutions, are put out in the way of outsourcing. These are all kinds of technical services. In a sense, food, service services can also be used. This does not affect the quality of education, but affects the quality of services and price. The country prescribes something, and it teases kindergartens. It prescribes what kind of organization it will be. We allow the Minister to have a key impact on the criteria for the formation of groups, the size of groups, the professional staff. However, as regards cost management, how to organise, this should be in the possession and hands of others who will ensure that the costs of kindergartens are lower, because they are already too high and constitute a major financial impact on local communities, which must pay an increasing share for kindergartens and also for parents, due to incentives. Of course, the key thing has happened in Ljubljana because of this law, and because of such meaningless, unrealistic provisions as we have in the existing law, existing kindergartens must be reorganised. In this way we will get in Ljubljana, without any quality improvements, 9 or 10 new kindergartens, 10 new principals, new advisors, new administrative staff, secretaries, ficussions and not listing anything else, at the same time it will be necessary to sell some buildings, disassemble, reorganise it as if it were in the national interest of Slovenians or parents and local communities. Reorganisation in this way would increase operating costs of 8% or 10%. We are therefore opposed to this law, which has a positive effect on the implementation of the educational and educational process in kindergartens. I therefore appeal to my colleagues and colleagues to vote in favour of this law at night or at night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u249	I think it's going to be tonight and not night like it was last night. We will now hear representatives of the Group. Kolga Drobnic said that this was now also a review of the Nova Slovenije Group. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, please. After him, Comrade Celigoj, DeSUS Group of Members. Then, by presenting the views of the groups of Members, we will also conclude this point. Please, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The main amendment to the law is to repeal the provisions on the maximum number of departments the kindergarten can have. The current provision provides that there may be up to 30 departments within each kindergarten. In the event of an increase in enrolment of children and if the number of departments is exceeded, a new kindergarten will have to be established. At first glance, the proposal makes sense as the establishment of a new educational institution entails certain costs, in addition to the reason mentioned by the proposer - the cost of employment of the new kindergarten director, his assistant and director. We also know that the funds allocated to kindergartens are limited. The co-financing of kindergarten programmes burdens the municipalities with a very large part of the budget, and there are few that they are right to prevent investment in other critical areas of the municipalities due to high costs. However, in the website of Young Slovenia, we believe that child safety, development and education are such a priority where costs cannot be the only relevant criterion. Surely the new provision would have an impact on the quality of work, as an increase in the number of departments would have made it more difficult to organise work. In a number of kindergartens, teaching work is difficult and uncontrollable. The practice shows that kindergartens with a smaller number of departments are cheaper, as more control over the use of all resources is more manageable, especially children, parents and employees. It is important for kindergarten to ensure pedagogical guidance. All other functions - staff, financial, part of development and other business functions - can be performed at different levels: in each kindergarten separately, for multiple kindergartens together or at local community level. The distribution of these functions, taking into account the status of the public institution, depends on what form of organisation is chosen or how large a public institution will be. Equally different forms, organisational forms resulting from analyses in a specific environment can contribute to a more rational and quality performance of all public service functions. It also seems important to us that a decree on the conditions for the establishment of public kindergartens is necessary only if, on the basis of demographic forecasts for the year, it is possible to predict an increase in enrolment in kindergarten. Therefore, if the increased entry is in just one year, it is not necessary to establish a new kindergarten. Once again, children are our future and the cost of their education should not be the only criterion. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Young Slovenia Party will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. Comrade Čeligoj will, as said, present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Following him, colleague Tanko took the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u252	Dear Members! In the DeSUS Group, we examined the proposed law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education in particular from the point of view of the proposal to remove the restriction of 30 departments on public kindergarten. The definition of kindergarten size as a public institution is one of the important criteria that ensure the quality of work in kindergarten. Whether the flexibility proposed in the law, namely the deletion of 30 departments for a working kindergarten, would introduce a poorer quality of the teaching process or, above all, the possibility that there would be no need for new departments to be created in high demand schools or to reject newcomers, or would result in lower costs for carrying out new departments. The opinion of the DeSUS Group is that quality pre-school education and protection must remain. And the existing law has proved to be appropriate, since the limit on the maximum number of kindergartens prevents large public kindergartens from being established, which would be difficult to manage from an organisational point of view, and thus increases the quality of kindergartens, since they have more time to deal with children than with their organisation. However, we must not forget that the need to increase the number of departments can also be increased by increasing the number of children in a particular kindergarten. In the city administration, as we can read in Del today, on the basis of Article 2 of the Kindergarten Act, which allows for a flexible regulatory system which again allows municipalities which for various reasons cannot reduce the number of children in the group to remain in higher standards, but not increased by more than four, have already drawn up a proposal for a decision setting out new, higher standards for more children in the departments. The provision of this Article and the provision on the conditions for the establishment of public kindergartens ease the rigidity of the provision which, according to the applicant, is ripe for amendment. According to these two legal acts, the status of the kindergarten does not need to be changed as soon as the number of departments provided for by law exceeds the number of sections provided for in the law, but a period of one school year is set for the adjustment of the kindergarten. If demographic movements in the congregation only indicate a temporary increase, then there is no need to change the kindergarten status. In the DeSUS Group, we are also skeptical of the consequences of the law if it were adopted. As a result, the funds that the founder - the state or the municipality - is earmarking for the financing of kindergartens may indeed be reduced, but we do not believe that the state should save on the education of the youngest citizens. In addition, even though we have heard many times about the impact of certain legal changes on the financial situation, the consequences of these changes have always been felt only by parents with increasingly cheap wallets, since kindergartens have been constantly being teased lately. We believe that a country, a congregation, or a founder might pay less, but parents whose feelings toward children can be abused on many occasions or other occasions would probably not pay less for a kindergarten change. We will not support this proposal of law in the DeSUS Group. However, we agree with the provision that it should indicate that the Minister's consent should be, in the event that there is no positive justification, because this constitutes a kind of control over the Minister's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Comrade Cheligoy. My friend Tanko. Please have the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The Education and Education Financing Act has been subject to several amendments in a short time. This time we face the problem of limiting the size of public institutions in the field of education, as the law does not allow these institutions to have more than 30 departments. In practice, however, for many years or decades there have been several educational institutions covered by the same law, which even have substantially more than 30 departments, but still work successfully. They provide adequate supervision of work, have appropriate communication between employees in the institution and the external environment, that is, also with founders and parents. Practice proves that the number of departments is not the criteria for the successful functioning of the institution, nor for good work in the departments or for cooperation with the environment entrusted with the performance of the responsible public service. To achieve this, qualified personnel are required to be able to carry out their tasks and to meet their expectations. We've got to admit, we've got a good shot. It is therefore appropriate that in those rare cases, where more or less occasionally population movements would require the opening of a larger number within educational establishments, the extension of the institution would be possible. Even if there is a need for a longer-term increase in the institution, if there are spatial capacities, it is pointless to establish a new institution, as this significantly increases the self-government or overhead costs. In case we have two institutions in the same building, we are also at risk of worsening our relationships. If we only decided to build a new building, despite sufficient space in the existing establishment, the state and the municipalities must fully provide for large investment and operating costs, and these costs are not socially justified. Given that the educational process is systematically and professionally planned, regularly and systematically controlled and that we have good and trained trainers, the size of the institution is exclusively a management problem, i.e. a management problem and not a direct work in the department. From a cost point of view, a more rational organisation is that it enables better exploitation of the human resources potential and better exploitation of internal organisational reserves. Months ago, in the National Assembly, we adopted a new law on kindergartens, with which the government proposed a substantial increase in the standards of children in the department, namely in the clear group by 17% and in the second group by 8%. These increases are significantly more crucial for the work of kindergarten and for the care of children than allowing an increase in the number of departments. Maybe a word or two more about the appointment of principals. The municipalities are founders of public institutions in the fields of education and education and must provide adequate conditions for the public service, provide the necessary financial resources, cover possible losses, finance transport, provide material costs and depreciation, etc. At the same time, they have no possibility of seriously participating in the process of appointing a director or director of the institution and only being able to monitor developments. I think that because of the tasks assigned to them by this and other laws, the congregations should be an equal partner in the selection or decision-making process of the director. Therefore, I do not believe that the granting of the power to grant consent to the appointment of the manager of the institution should be too much for local communities. The municipalities must be given this authority and thus take responsibility for their decisions and for the resources they must provide. It must be at least an honour for them to give their consent to the appointment of this person, as in most developed democracies, where trust is established between institutions. With the amendment I have tabled, I would like to point out this flaw, which will soon need to be addressed. Our Group of Members supports the amendment to the law and the amendment I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much, colleague Takan. She's a magician's colleague. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I don't see my friend Trofenic in the hall. Would you like to present your position?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure by the Member, Master Janez Drobnič, is one of those who attempt to change individual systemic solutions by means of seemingly small interventions. The deletion of the maximum number of departments which may be included in one of the public kindergartens referred to in Article 44, paragraph 1, was justified by the applicant in the supplementary explanation as necessary and necessary for the benefit of the State and the citizens. It should remove an unnecessary and harmful provision which should not affect the quality of the educational and educational process and affect the level of costs. The quality of the programmes is mainly influenced by the size of the department, the professional competence of the staff and the commitment of those working with children. However, the change touches business and management. With an increased number of departments of 30, greater rationalisation would be ensured and the administrative and technical part of the staff would be reduced, a common diet, technical services and the like would be organised, resulting in a reduction in the costs that parents must bear and a substantial part of the local community. The speaker pointed out that these were mainly problems in urban environments, specifically in Ljubljana, where the reorganisation of the network of public kindergartens was expected to reduce costs, but pre-school education also covers considerable resources from municipal budgets, and some urban environments have reorganised the public kindergarten network. Therefore, in the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the local community will have a more important role to play in co-decision on the things that the State is transferring to the local community, especially when it has to provide funds from its budget for a certain legal obligation. Nevertheless, we will not support the proposed change. We believe that it is contrary to the norms and standards for the implementation of public pre-school education. The practice so far has confirmed the appropriateness of attitudes towards smaller organisational units, which provide better opportunities for the implementation of the principles and objectives of preschool education in public education. Since a public kindergarten, by creating opportunities for different activities of children, contributes to their physical and mental development, it must have a higher priority in all decisions than in other aspects. Therefore, in the view of the United Nations Social Democrats, it should be crucial that the local community define its priorities. If it is aware of the importance and positive effects of investing in human resources as we would like to say so, it should, with appropriate incentives, also bring the country closer to finding such a system of financing for local communities, which will not only impose new obligations but will encourage the transfer of expertise into practice and investment in knowledge and development. Therefore, strengthening standards and standards for the whole activity, regardless of where it takes place, is essential. Public kindergartens must be accessible to every preschool child, so I need to maintain and expand the network of public kindergartens where necessary, and, in particular, through the regulation of the management and financing system, the same standard of public kindergartens should be ensured, while the diversity of programmes and the competitiveness between kindergartens should not be left out. We therefore believe that it is necessary to listen to the community of kindergarteners who point out that the standard of living of preschool children in Slovenian public schools needs to be maintained. At the same time, the amendment to Article 53, paragraph 6, does not seem necessary. So let me make a decision. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u257	Mr Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u258	Mr President, representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We'll be long every night, I guess. The proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education of EPA-989 /III in the SLS Parliamentary Group has been examined by the proposed amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education and their expected consequences. The proposal provides for the deletion of Article 44, which concerns the formation of public kindergartens. In accordance with the rules in force, up to 30 sections may be formed in public kindergarten. The proposed solution is intended to be the removal of expensive and over-administrative provisions, but the applicant's arguments have not convinced us that there is an important condition, which largely ensures the quality of work in kindergarten. We believe that quality work in kindergartens outweighs the anticipated reduction in the founder's resources mentioned by the proposer in his financial assessment of the consequences of the law. We would also be very pleased if we did not close kindergartens in the countryside, which unfortunately happens too often. The bill also provides for a novelty regarding the appointment or discharge of public school or school administrators. The Minister imposes an obligation on the proposer, explain your decisions. In principle, I believe that due to the transparency or transparency of the procedure, the provision provided for could be acceptable, taking into account that Article 53 states that the Minister must explain his decision only if it is negative. In the SLS Group, we also took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which raises a strong point of view. I would like to point out that the proposed solution to the Minister's consent before final decision on the appointment or discharge of the Director is to be examined from the point of view of implementation in practice. There is a dilemma as to whether the proposed solution does not constitute the inclusion of ministers in the procedure at a stage where the choice is not yet exercised when more candidates are available to the director. In practice, the existing Institute of the consent of the Minister, the appointment of the Director of kindergarten or the school is a positive reception. However, the proposer has failed to convince us of the rationale and purpose of amending the existing provisions of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We will not support the proposal in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u259	My colleague Kavticnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The presentation of the positions was then concluded by the colleague Peca and thus concluded this hearing. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Secretary of State, Your Honor! The Law on the organisation and financing of education and education is governed by fundamental organisational, status and financial issues from pre-school education to adult education. At the time of its entry into force in March 1996, due to the needs demonstrated by practice and due to the need to comply with the new laws adopted in various areas, the law changed and supplemented in June 2001, November 2002 and March 2003. It is interesting to note that we have never followed up on those amendments any of the amendments that the applicant has now come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The bill before us wants to contribute to the law by deleting, restricting the 30 departments to an active public kindergarten and extending the arrangements for the appointment and discharge of the director of public kindergarten or school. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the applicant has failed to demonstrate and justify the reasons for amending the law, which would be better from now on a valid law. At the very meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, we presented our position against the adoption of such legislation. Let me rephrase the grounds against you. First time. Standards for the establishment of departments are laid down in the Law on Kindergartens and the Ordinance on Normatives on Staff Conditions for Preschool Education. The White Paper also provides a normative basis for the quality of the educational process. We believe that 30 sections of kindergarten still represent the upper limit, which enables the quality of the programme to be implemented, which is also evidenced by years of practice. Practice also proves that in cases of changes in kindergarten status it takes a certain period - this is one year - to adjust. Another time. We believe that the Institute, the Minister's consent to appoint a principal of kindergarten or school in long-term practice has already been established and has not caused any problems so far. We therefore see no reason to amend this provision. It's wise that we don't change what doesn't cause problems. On the basis of the proposed amendments to the law proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it opposes and supports the decision of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport that the proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further application. Deal, sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u261	Thank you very much, colleague Kavticnik. This is how we have done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will decide on the proposal for a decision by the competent working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable today in the context of the 15-minute vote following the conclusion of the 9th item of the agenda. That's how I'm gonna end this point by then. At 18.55 we will move on to the 16th item of the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava. The bill was proposed by the government to the assembly. Until this proposal is considered, I will order a recess. The debate will continue at 6 p.m. and 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u262	We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE CONCESS CONDITIONS FOR THE USE OF THE ENERGY CAPACITY OF THE UNDERTAKING, CLOSED PROCEDURE The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Master Janez Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u263	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There's a brief bill ahead of you. All together in three articles coming here because the project for the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava is already in full river, and at the time of implementation we have detected some shortcomings from the existing law, which we are trying to eliminate with this short text, and, of course, we are asking you for support. The proposed changes are three. One is of an organizational nature. We assume that only the construction of local infrastructure and also later the water management public service on things covered by the location plan for the construction of this hydroelectric power plant chain on the lower Sava would be carried out by an undertaking, possibly a public undertaking; in short, that this part of the business would be carried out as an economic public service. The basic text of the law says that it is organised by the concessionaire. The concessionaire has already organised this, but in the relationship between the concessionaire and the ministry we see the need for this to be organised in the context of an economic public service. That is why we propose this solution. This is Article 1. Article 2 speaks of amounts. When the basic law was adopted in 2000, of course the amounts envisaged for the construction of local and state infrastructure along this chain were only very indicative. At the time, no one was able to judge this very precisely. Now that we are intensively building the Bosniak hydropower plant and preparing for the construction of the Blanca hydro power plant, we can better assess how much resources are needed. Therefore, we propose a different redistribution of the State's guarantee obligations for the rental of credits for the construction of this infrastructure, in such a way that the entire infrastructure at the Bosnia and Herzegovina hydroelectric power plant will be combined with this envisaged guarantee obligation of the State of 50 million euros. However, we still remain within the 120 million euro quota for the entire chain. The third proposed amendment, however, solves some problem of the potential bankruptcy of the municipality of Radeče due to late interest on unlawfully paid compensation for the use of building land, which was a substitute for concession fee, and the solution provides that this debt is settled for the next 49 years from the amount of concession fee received. We introduced this solution into the marriage after we had long thought about what the legal basis would be for us to deal with this problem differently, with some collateral. This is some kind of netting, but the Tax Procedure Act does not allow this kind of netting, so we need special legal intervention. I ask or suggest that you support these three changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u264	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Infrastructure Committee as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. At its 46th meeting, the Infrastructural Committee considered a proposal for a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which was sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, since it is a matter of less difficult amendments to the law. A representative of the Radeče municipality and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to the representatives of the law-makers. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the proposed amendments substantially alter the basic concept of the basic law while at the same time raising questions as to whether it does not interfere with the rights already acquired by law of a designated concessionaire for the exploitation of water energy potential in the area of the lower Sava. In this connection, the Service recalls the relationship between the proposed amendments to the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 3, and Article 4, of the applicable law, which does not modify the amendment submitted. The current law in these provisions also lays down the obligation of the concessionaire to provide water infrastructure and to regulate state and local infrastructure in the influential area of exploitation of the lower Sava. However, the proposed novelty provides that the regulation of that infrastructure may also be ensured by a state economic public service for which the operator may rent a loan with the State guarantee. With regard to the proposed change to the entity eligible for the loan, the service recalls the provisions of the Water Act and, on the basis of the proposed regulation on the manner in which the compulsory State economic services are managed. The debate raised the question on the basis of which documents were given in the proposed Article 11b, a guarantee obligation for HE Boštanj and HE Blanca in a different relationship, as originally set out in the basic text of the law. It was also suggested that the proposed solution in the new Article 11a, which gives the chance for the creditors to implement the water infrastructure arrangements and the state and local infrastructure in the influential energy use area of the lower Sava, should be provided by the State economic public service. In order to make this solution more operational and efficient, this public service should be professionally qualified for the arrangements envisaged and should not overlap with the work of the arrangements relating to energy facilities and installations. The mayor of Radeče municipality also took part in the discussion and took note of the issue of the construction of HE Vrhovo. In this regard, the Committee also adopted an amendment to the new Article 3 which amended the original proposed Article 11.c. And the provisions of the new Article 3 resolve the financially insurmountable position of the municipality of Radeče by discharging the obligation of reimbursement after payment of the compensation for the use of the building land of the net with the obligations of the concessionaire to pay the concession to the municipality during the duration of the concession. The Municipality of Radeče will thus be able to operate normally and the obligation to return will be allocated for a longer period. The Committee adopted two amendments by 10 a.m. and b) and for a new Article 3 and proposing that the National Assembly adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u266	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Mamić will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. In Slovenia, we are aware of the need to expand the electricity network because the consumption of such energy is increasing permanently. So far, our water potential is still underutilized. I used the word "for now" because I thought about the lower Sava we are talking about today, because we are witnessing that every year in the eastern part of Slovenia there is a drought, which, of course, also affects the quantity and speed, is said to be the flow of water from the lying Sava. This is exactly what gives me a clue as to whether analyses have been made on the flow of water in this part of the country, as to transitivity, at least an approximation? I think that centuries of water is not a reliable data to be used for analysis because we live in a time when things change in nature, which, of course, we feel people on our own. I'm sure we all agree with that conclusion here. So, will the construction of these buildings be justified? I do not ask as a skeptic, but I would like to be informed that you can say, we vote in our New Slovenia Party "yes" or "against". I hope that Slovenia does not intend to go on a financial adventure with another guarantee and that this investment will be profitable - unlike railways. I have another thought. At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment and Space, the legislative and legal service pointed out the irregularity of this proposal for this law, several articles and most of all concerns, but the general comment following the derogation from the concept of the basic law. This is about the conditions to be met by the concessionaire for the construction or energy exploitation of the lower Sava. The provision of water, state and local infrastructure is also mentioned. The Minister's response to these concerns was not convincing. I also did not get a satisfactory answer to my question from the Minister, because he was referring to the price of one kilowatt of electricity from the facility we are talking about. I also made an introduction to my presentation from the Minister's response. It's over. In New Slovenia, of course, we would rather see the law implemented through a normal procedure and not in a reduced procedure, as our custom has already become, because it would be easier to say that we are not opposed to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In our Parliamentary Group, the Slovenian Democratic Party notes that government policy in the field of electricity is very poor, particularly in recent times. And in view of the national programme submitted or expected, we find that such a policy is unsustainable and inappropriate for Slovenia, because the deficit state in this European electricity production area or for imports of electricity even in relation to 30% of imports is unacceptable and will put our country in an extremely subordinate position. This will also lead to an extraordinary, high price of electricity in the coming period. It is therefore essential that, of course, accelerated approaches be taken to the design of such a policy in the electricity field, where adequate dynamics in the construction of new electricity facilities and the updating of old ones will be ensured. Just because we did not know how to run appropriate policies in the past, we will have to try to make up for huge investments in the future, which will, of course, be extremely difficult. One of these is, these measures are certainly the construction of a chain of Sava power plants. Bosniak is in the stage of construction, as you know, but of course, some problems have arisen. We have passed a special law for these areas or for this construction measure, but today we find that the proposal for a law has been poorly thought out and in some parts is also inappropriate, as it is now found that certain activities cannot be carried out and a change is needed after the previous law. Surely we will not oppose these new solutions in our party because we are aware of the need to find an appropriate form that will only allow for the construction of this first power plant or others in this chain and then all of the following. However, we do not trust these provisions too much, even in the light of the practice so far, and we expect any new amendments to this law to continue. In particular, we cannot agree that some things are merging, that they are not exactly written, that there are actually some inconsistencies with the basic concept of the law. In short, a lot of misplaced things. However, as I have said, our parliamentary group will not oppose the adoption of this law or the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u270	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, colleges and colleagues, nice greeting. The law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, adopted by the National Assembly in June 2000, should lay down and regulate the conditions for granting a concession to exploit this water energy potential and also define the conditions to be met by the concessionaire in the planning and construction of concession facilities. In this area, the construction of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant in 1986, which began in 1993 after operation, was already under way. However, it is only necessary to mention that in order to regulate certain urgent local infrastructures, no legal relationship has been established between the concessionaire and the concessionaire. Since the regulations on the granting of concessions for the hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo are not implemented, Radeče tried to provide a permanent source of resources by which the Sava Power Plants undertook to pay the contribution to the building land for the entire dam of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant. It is known that the Constitutional Court’s judgment has directed the municipality of Radeče and the countries to regulate cases by concession and not by compensation for building land. Thus, in the financial relationship between the municipality and the Sava power plant, there was a good overpayment, as the chairman of the committee mentioned, whose municipality is unlikely to settle. At the same time, it is not so important that, even in the current law on the regulation of legal relations, the legal deadlines were not respected either with regard to the award of the concession or the deadline for the signing of the concession contract, but it is important that the conditions for the smooth financing of the arrangements of the local infrastructure, which was linked to the construction of the hydropower plant Vrhovo, were not ensured. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we also fully agree with the bill's proposal that the project for the construction of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava already requires the participation of the concessionaire and that the concession contract should adopt the legal basis for the implementation of the legal and financial obligation, which constitutes a legitimate interest of the State as a candidate in the performance of its contractual obligations. In this way, we will also prevent deviations from the deadlines of the concessionaire under the terms of this concession contract and thus influence the construction of a large hydroelectric power plant on the lower Sava, for which they provide the legal basis of the first and second paragraphs of the amended bill. For the provision of the new Article 3, the proposed law opened the possibility to resolve the financially insecure position of the Radeče municipality. We are confident that the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy will do everything to ensure that the obligation to repay the overpaid compensation for the use of the building land will be reimbursed for the obligations of the consecrator until the concession of the municipalities is paid during the duration of the concession. The municipality of Radeče will thus be able to operate normally and will be able to carry out its mission in the field of local self-government in accordance with constitutional and legal rules. For this reason, we will therefore fully support the proposal to amend the law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Mr. Christmas, you're supposed to give up your position. If you want to? You want a word? The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So in the SLS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava, EPA 990-III. In doing so, we think that every intervention in the area is actually one big wound, and if we're building power plants, it's normal to change the locality and the state infrastructure. And if we don't arrange it for the construction of the power plants, it's going to happen the way it did on the Sochi River when the hydropower plants were built during the two wars. After the 1960s, hydroelectric plants need to be restored, and especially lakes, a floody part of the hydroelectric power plant is called and there is no access to the lakes. For in 1936 no one remembered that one day the lake would also have to be cleansed when it was full of mud and grammes, and there was no access to the lake in the private land. That's why we support this law. However, we think it is right for these two power plants to limit the amount to EUR 50 million and also to resolve the problem of Radeče. However, it would be good if the problems encountered in the congregation of Radeče were no longer there, for I think they were in the near past, not so distant, different interpretations of laws. When you went to court, then you usually lost the suit. In fact, if someone by law advised the municipality that we could charge a concession for the power plant, then this contract should be better certified and also valid. However, it is not for the Constitutional Court to annul it, but for others to sue, and it is then necessary to return the concession you have received for 25 years. This is not evidence of legal action in this area. As it is said, the SLS will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas, I apologize. Actually, the secretary came by earlier to say that you might be absent. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u275	Good evening! Have a nice hello to you all. So, before us is the second amendment to the law, which was the law of parliament, because we tabled it to the three members of the Liberal Democracy in 1999, and it was adopted in 2000, I think in June. We also expected this amendment today, at least in the part that talks about the manner and conditions of granting the State guarantee for the loans hired in the execution of the state, local and water infrastructure. In fact, the basic law did not provide for guarantee conditions, but we expected that the guarantee conditions would be defined in specific laws, as is usually the case with some other major investment projects in Slovenia, for example in motorways where specific laws are passed for individual leased loans. However, even in the Liberal Democracy, in our Group, we agree that it is also possible and a good solution to define in the Basic Law the conditions under which the State will issue guarantees for loans for these actions and for these purposes. In this part, of course, we feel that it is good to accept it as quickly as possible. The law, which is before us and thus establishes the legal service, the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, changes to some extent the concept of the proposed or adopted law, since, following the concept of the adopted law and under the signed concession contract between the State of Slovenia and the concessionaire holding the Sava power plants, the Slovenian power plants, was, therefore, a concessionaire committed to the construction of energy and also all infrastructure facilities. This commitment will also remain in some way after the novelty, although we are introducing the possibility of setting up a special public firm for building infrastructures. As we have already heard from some media today, the forecast is that it can be set up is already announced, so that we are already informed that such a company will be set up. Of course, after the adoption of today's law, the Law Service also warns of this discrepancy, as the obligation of the concessionaire remains in Article 4 of the Act, i.e. the holding of Slovenian power plants for the construction of infrastructure facilities. Well, it's not really a problem for us if we have two supporters to arrange the infrastructure on the bottom of the Sava drain and all the others needed to build a chain of Sava power plants as well as other arrangements. The third proposal of this amendment, which has already been highlighted, is to complement the work that sets out more precisely how the problem of the Radeče municipality will be resolved. This possibility was also given in the basic law, but, of course, as time shifted, problems also increased. For this reason, we will also clearly support and support this part of the law, so that this part will no longer be problematic. However, it is necessary to say that hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo in itself is not in the system of this law, it is the first in the chain of Sava power plants, but it has another concessionary, it has the concessionary Sava power plant d.d. Ljubljana, while all other power plants are being built or to be built, are in another domain. Of course, in the LDS Group, we do not oppose these changes to the law, because it is essential for us that the changes to the law do not change the basic objectives for which we have proposed and adopted it. This is, however, to improve the energy use of the lower Sava, to improve the energy balance of the Republic of Slovenia, to increase economic development opportunities in Posavje, to improve the situation of Slovenian engineering and Slovenian construction, and, of course, to improve the infrastructure along with Savi and to permanently address the flood problems that still remain in Posavje. For this reason, the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia will support the law, but we are aware that this may not be the last change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party is supposed to be - not Mr Pečet. Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The legislative vote will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within 15 minutes of the conclusion of the 9th item of the agenda. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and move on, thank you to the Minister for his cooperation, and we are moving on to the 17th item of the agenda at 7:40 p.m., which is to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial fees, a reduced procedure. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u277	Dear Members, honourable Members! Between you and me, I welcome the Minister of Justice, Master Biszak. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxis, summary procedure The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Justice, Master Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u278	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees mainly eliminates inconsistencies with the constitution established by the Constitutional Court. Thus, as regards the arrangements for the payment of the fee for opposition to the insurance decision, where the Constitutional Court found that the burden of payment of the court fee between the parties was not proportionally distributed, as well as with respect to Article 8 of the Law on Judicial Fees, which, according to the Constitutional Court, did not clearly determine when the payment of the court fee was a procedural assumption. With regard to the first, we propose a new amount of the contract fee against a decision on insurance of a moderate amount of 100 points. On the other hand, the proposal makes it clear that the payment of a court fee is a procedural assumption when the law or rate so provides. In addition, we are introducing a few minor changes. Perhaps the most important thing is that an electronic way of paying court fees is supplemented, so that the court can only determine the fee, even if it has been paid electronically. There are new legal fees for two legal remedies in judicial proceedings for which the fee has not been fixed so far, but such an arrangement is not in line with the principle of such equality. At the same time, we also introduce some urgent minor amendments or additions to certain tariff items in order to achieve internal coherence of all provisions of the law, and to harmonise the prescribed tax with the importance and complexity of the cases under consideration. Of course, it is also due to the unification of practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Leopold Kremjar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you very much. The Committee has, as it is said, considered the proposal for a law. The reasons were the harmonisation of the law with the Constitutional Court decision and, of course, the possibility of payment, the possibility of electronic payment of court fees. In its written opinion, the Legislature provided comments on certain articles of the bill, most of which the drafter also agreed, and were then taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee.The Commission of the State Council for the Political System also supported the proposal. The members of the Committee did not discuss the proposal, but adopted the amendments included in the proposals and I propose to the National Assembly on behalf of the Committee to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! A number of amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Fees, which had already been amended nine times, had an impact on the original design and thus on such tariffs, thereby undermining the constitutional consistency of court fees, which should be in accordance with constitutional principles of equality before the law the right to equal protection and the right to a remedy. The burden of payment of court fees must be allocated in proportion to the parties and in accordance with the average volume of the case-law. The legal possible difference between a tax with a creditor and the creditor’s proposal and a tax for debtors was such that it exceeded the limits and caused imbalances between the burdens. And that is what the Constitutional Court has pointed out in its decision. Therefore, the main purpose of the recast of the Law on Judicial Fees, which regulates the payment of court fees before the courts in the Republic of Slovenia, is, after a reduced procedure, to remove the legal void resulting from the repeal of part of the text of the Act. The decision of the Constitutional Court of 2002 therefore concerns the provisions on the fee to be charged by the debtor objecting to the insurance decision. The Government shall propose a fairer amount of the contract fee against the insurance decision in the fifth paragraph of Article 3, with a reasonable value of 100 points being set for the payment of the insurance decision and for the opposition decision. However, the second decision of the Constitutional Court in 2003 refers to the provision of Article 8, paragraph 1, concerning the different interpretations of the case law. However, according to the Government's proposal, the new text would clearly suggest that the payment of a court fee is a procedural assumption only if the law or tariff so provides. The Law on Judicial Fees also refers to other substantive and procedural laws, which requires its substantive and substantive harmonisation. For example, by the Law on Payments, which introduces the concept of electronic money, e-commerce is intended to simplify the functioning of national authorities. However, the current technical equipment of the courts is not yet at such a stage that payment of the fee is possible in all courts in electronic form. Or, for example, the recovery of a fee against a debtor who is a legal person and the removal of doubt in the event that a legal person does not have an account or an asset. Or the non-compliance of public finance laws with the provision that 30% of the revenue from court fees is intended for the technological modernisation of court operations. The Public Finance Act does not allow for prior binding of certain revenue for the expenditure of the budget. These changes, and some other additions and harmonisations are necessary and cannot be disputed, but they point out that if they occur too often, they can cause too many adjustments to the original design, because they can actually lose their purpose or even their compliance, which may also lead to violations of constitutional principles, including damages to citizens and citizens. As legislators, we must be cautious and responsible. Therefore, the adoption of legislative proposals after a reduced or rapid procedure does not usually produce good results and we oppose such a way of working. We would like to draw attention to something else: the slow technological equipment of our courts and the necessary resources for this purpose. There is still too much unnecessary administration, which does not contribute to better work in the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will prepare the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. This change in content is intended to remove the legal void, create a constitutional court decision and supplement something. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to one specific issue, one that is also present in other laws. The details are that, in the appearance of a non-vulnerablely important law, such as the Law on Court Fees and Supplements, it has been judged at least six times by the Constitutional Court. There may have been more than one provision, at least in such a way that it needs to be corrected in five years. But I think it's nine times since 1976. This means that every ten months someone sought judicial protection in a constitutional court in connection with this law. This law has been amended in the last five years solely because of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and yet there has always been something controversial, even after the law has been amended, even in our mandate there has been something of this, and so it seems to be now. The main cause of the current amendment of the law was the legal void, which was the result of a constitutional court's decision. So again, something that is not in line with our legal order or in old practice means that the current solution will also experience an epilogue in the Constitutional Court. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this change would not have to be opposed, but there is a bitter test of what we are doing now. The law in this area and also the changes have always been prepared by "the profession" - here I put "the profession" in the direction - here is the "policy" and again in the slogans, it was not allowed to interfere. Any doubt immediately meant interference, and it was unacceptable, in an independent court. There is an interesting interpretation of why this change is necessary - I will quote it as it is written. "According to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal difference between a fee for a trustee's proposal and a fee for debtors is so strong that it exceeded the limits of the free legislators' judgment, but at the same time highlighted the imbalance between the burdens of the parties and the debtor" - and this is now important "had a sense of legal certainty and confidence in the law, which is why the said part..." and then follows, "in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." It's so bad, I won't say a word. It's the content to hold a man's breath. This is alarming, as if these laws were written by amateurs who have virtually nothing to do with the legal profession. As if they were amateurs and lack any basic legal knowledge, or - there is also a question in this particular case - with the intervention of the Constitutional Court so many times that the content of the law is adapted to certain roles. How can a person then believe and trust the content we receive in Parliament? This is consistent with the information that laws are prepared by private companies, especially one. That one's more equal. This is suitably adapted "may" - the emphasis is on "may", but it is not necessarily content. The fact that such anachronisms occur is also affected by the fact that the ruling majority is involved in cases where there are laws where, of course, money is involved. He is particularly receptive to the opposition's proposals, even though the opposition regularly points to these things. That's what happened. With this specimen ahead of us, we should, of course, start flashing the red light. We should think about the content of the laws that we receive in the National Assembly - no matter if they are prepared by "the profession". And I've put it in my mouth again. But there is also a conclusion, I think of the Constitutional Court's decision - a fine against the government, regardless of the fact that private companies are preparing their laws. The content is the responsibility of the person under which it is signed, and this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And as far as we are aware in the Group of Members, there has also been a change in the Rules of Procedure so that poorly prepared laws can be returned to the Applicant. This is primarily the government. We hope that's what's going to happen. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not oppose the adoption of the law, because there are some good solutions, they are logical, they are reasonable, but we have a bitter taste of quality as a whole. The same is true of course in the case of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u286	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! For this, too, the short-term proposal of the Law on Court Fees is a direct reason for its being brought before the Constitutional Court. More specifically, the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, namely, the first concern the annulment of the provision on a fee against insurance and the proposed proportionate amount of the fee. The second refers to a fee as a procedural assumption. This is one of the ways in which the State tries to limit the case-law to a court and thus restrict the judicial backlogs so that, in certain cases, the amount of the applicant’s or the applicant’s fee is taken into consideration whether or not he will decide to seek judicial protection. On the other hand, it can affect procedural discipline. In addition to these two amendments, several other legal innovations have been proposed or less important coordination, including terminology adjustments. These are: the introduction of an electronic method of payment of court fees, the purpose of the application of 30% of the court fees for the technological modernisation of the courts, the substantive and terminologyal harmonisation of the fee against the legal person who is a legal person, the use of all enforcement fees against the legal person, the amount of the fee paid for the objection and the appeal upon registration in the register, as well as the addition of the tariff for an objection in the land and book proceedings. In the tariff section, additions to the four tariff numbers in order to achieve internal coherence of all provisions of the law and to harmonise the prescribed tax with the importance and complexity of the cases under consideration, as well as with a view to unifying the practice. For these reasons, and in particular because of the abolition of non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed changes and innovations. At the same time, in the Group of Members of the United Nations, we expect the new legal text to be fully harmonised and recast following the final adoption of the European acquis before accession to the European Union. Because of the age adopted in 1976 and the commitment to a number of procedural and material laws, the current nine interventions to the law require substantive and terminologyal harmonisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u287	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The legislative vote will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, within 15 minutes of the conclusion of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister very much for his cooperation. At 8:10 p.m., we will move on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the company for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u288	Your Honor! We're moving to Treatment 9. Agenda items - Second Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Society for Automobiles in the Republic of Slovenia. Between us, I very much welcome the Minister of Transport and the co-worker, the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. A supplementary explanation will be given by the Minister for Transport, Mr JakobPresječnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members! The National Assembly also held a general debate on the law, last month at its 30th meeting and decided that the bill was suitable for further consideration. However, in the course of the debate and also later, at the meeting of the parent committee, some questions were raised, which we have already answered, and we allow me to try again to answer the most crucial questions. On the basis of the law in the form proposed, two contracts will be signed which will relate to two different legal relations. One of them will be the concession contract and will relate to the management and maintenance of motorways, which the company will carry out for its own account. However, the second contract proposed3.b would not be concessional, but would be an agent contract. Dars will therefore be an agent of the State: by contract, and not by law, he will carry out the work of building and rebuilding motorways. Therefore, in the case of the organisation and management of the construction of motorways and the implementation of financial engineering of this relationship, we cannot compare certain concessions in some other countries. The issue of privatisation and control of the country was also raised. This bill is not a law on privatisation, not Slovenian motorways and not the Society for Highways. They're motorways and they're still going to be public and they're out of legal traffic, they're owned by the state and not owned by Dars. They can't be privatized. As far as Dars is concerned, the proposal for the amendment of the law now provides that the management share of the state in Dars should not fall below 51 per cent. This amendment introduces even more safeguards in this regard, including the need for prior agreement by this national assembly to sell any management stake in Dars. The privatisation of Slovenian motorways, as proposed by law, cannot possibly be achieved, and I reiterate that no share can be sold to other persons without prior consent from the National Assembly. State control over society will also be strengthened by other forms both through the contract and through the supervisory council, and ultimately by the assembly of the company represented by the government. Dars will still have to follow the law on public procurement when organising and building highways, and also the supervision of the Court of Auditors will be carried out first, as I have already pointed out, because, as I have already pointed out, construction will be carried out on an order basis and at the expense of the state as it is now, and there will be no changes in control here. In addition to the proposal for a law supported by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, amendments have been tabled which have been carefully examined by the professional services of the competent ministries, in particular in terms of their professional acceptability and have found that they cannot be incorporated into the established system-wide legal concept. The opinion adopted by the Government to the amendment has also been forwarded to the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a proposal for a second reading. I suggest you support him and allow him to receive as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u290	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Janko Weber, to present the report of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Chairman, and a nice greeting to everyone. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment considered the proposed law at its 48th meeting and, of course, invited the representatives of both the drafters and the legislative and administrative services to this meeting, discussed the law and, of course, adopted certain solutions, which have defined in detail the text of the law, in particular on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which has already highlighted the importance already in the introduction, in particular the fact that the recast of the current public company Dars is derived from the provisions provided for by the Law on Economic Services, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Economic Companies. The aim of this transformation is, in particular, to obtain private capital for the construction of motorways and, of course, to keep the shareholder company 100% of the country's ownership in this form as well. Of course, a number of issues have arisen at this starting point, namely that the company's task regarding the implementation of the national highway construction programme has not been sufficiently clearly defined. And given that the two contracts provided for governing the relationship between the founder and the company were, of course, also here, the legal and regulatory services found that the provisions were not the most clear, since they were supposed to have contracts under this law but certain elements of the concession contract, which the two contracts were not supposed to be. In addition, it was pointed out that the form of the concession provided for in this law differs from that of other countries, as it is not a sort of classic way of obtaining private funds for the construction of motorways and, of course, this specificity has been particularly pointed out by the legislature. Moreover, it is found that the content of the law itself goes beyond the purpose of the basic law, as it also interferes with other laws. In particular, it intervened in the public road cover law, so that, in addition to these comments, it was necessary to take into account the debate of Members and Members who pointed out in particular that the law did not adequately answer the questions relating to the entry into society of private capital, that the question of the conclusion of a concession contract between the State and society with regard to the performance of the tasks and the management and maintenance of motorways, which should have been concluded for a period of at least 30 years with the possibility of extension, in particular for too long. They felt that this time period needed to be reduced. Well, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, of course, had at its disposal proposals for the establishment of amendments to the Committee, on the basis of cooperation between the legislative and legal services of the Committee and the professional service of the Committee, and also on the basis of proposals for the establishment of amendments to the Committee, which were adopted to a large extent later or by all those who were so intervened. Thus, in the second reading, we have a rather complementary text, which we believe on the Committee, that it is sufficiently clear that it gives all the answers to this and provides, i.e. to the questions raised in the debates, and that it somehow provides good control primarily to the national assembly in the implementation of this programme and that, of course, a national highway programme can be implemented smoothly at the time of entry into private capital. The Committee therefore proposes that such an updated proposal be confirmed by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.11.2003. First, I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the two amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group to this Article. I'm asking, who wants a word? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. First of all, I would like to express a protest because we are dealing with a point as important as Darsa's changes, both late and after such hard work, practically in late night hours as it was decades ago. What's going on with this marriage? For the first time, the coalition proposed systemic changes in the construction of motorways, which in some way do not interfere with the so-called physical part of the construction of motorways, since this company will still carry out and conduct all activities on its behalf and on behalf of the State. All essential changes concern in particular the status and ownership changes, the powers to carry out financial engineering, financial operations, debt, issuance of securities and so on. Therefore, it seems to me that it is inappropriate to say that the Ministry of Transport is the holder of the amendments to this law, but it should be our opinion and my opinion that this Ministry of Finance should be. For changes are very radically affecting the financial field and, among other things, they undermine the concept of sound financial functioning of the country. Therefore, the proposal for a novel and the full responsibility of the Minister of Finance should be taken over. Why is that supposed to be? The company for motorways is transformed by this law from a public undertaking to an economic society, thus being transformed from a non-profit to a profitable company. This means that this new company will have as its key objective, in addition to being precisely determined to generate or generate profits or create an adequate return from owners. The results of the work of the manager, it is said, and this profit will soon no longer return to construction and to the restoration of motorways and maintenance as it has been, but at least part of this profit will be split into future owners, meaning that the funds of the same highway programme will start to be slowly exempted. This means that the state has in some way set up a model of ownership, similar to that which immediately began to own companies after independence, practically with some kind of "by-pass", it is said, under the classic Marković law. Now, in what ways will these funds be exempted, and in what ways will this profit begin to be made? First of all, with this conclusion of an agent's contract, which will grant Dars a commission for all construction activities. This is said, through land acquisition and management, through the management of financing for construction, etc. This contract will be concluded by the government with a new Dars, in which a certain proportion of other owners will also come, and this contract will be concluded at least for the time of construction or for the time of repayment of credits or securities if this period is longer than construction. The law does not specify either the time limit or the commission or the conditions under which the restructuring and repayment of loans or securities may be possible. This means, in short, that this contract is concluded for an indefinite period and given that Dars will also be heavily indebted in the coming period, as it is foreseen for at least €2.6 billion in loans, new loans and bonds issued by 2013 means that Dars will become the largest individual credit collector in the country. All commitments made will no longer be added to the State's debt. This means that there will be a debt that we will have, but will not be recorded. In short, this project is a long-term contract without a specified commission, it is an extremely large amount and, therefore, in our view, it is essential at least that a national assembly agrees on such a contract. Another way of filling or making a profit is by concluding a concession contract with which to transfer to Dars, I don't know, 6.7 billion worth of assets, which will also be managed for a time that is at least that long. Nor is there a precise and prescribed amount of concession fee and will ultimately depend on the ability of the contractor, that is Darsa in justifying the costs and also on his ability to negotiate with the government and in order to recognise this normal return on funds. But the third source will also be the leases Dars will get by broadcasting the surfaces. And if I say so at home, a lot of this money will be poured into society, and it will be shaped like a profit from society. This law, which provides for Darsa's property, means that a lot of this money will also be spilled to these owners. In short, up to 49 percent of these assets will be passed on to those who will be co-owners of Darsa. And if I say so for a moment. This company will no longer operate on its own behalf and on behalf of the State, but will operate on its own behalf and at the expense of the State or at the expense of taxpayers. It is also very flawed that this treaty - or it is not provided for in any law - has not been adopted anywhere to terminate the contract in the event that Dars would not fulfil his obligations. We are also convinced that such a provision is also necessary for marriage. We also consider that, in the specific part, the text is inconsistent with those laid down in the second part of the law, and we also propose that this part in the third indent of Article 3 also be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I would also like to express, on behalf of our Group of Members, first of all, disagreement with this way of working. The President of Parliament is the most responsible for this happening. I think he can hear me or he can hear me. He is responsible for organising Parliament's work, and he cannot excuse that others have been so determined. Such an approach on such serious matters is, of course, unrealistic and, of course, only means that, Members, come, this: vote, and then let us move on peacefully. So much for that. We can't change that, but it's only right to point that out. As for the proposal for transformation, the status transformation of Darsa, the fact is that we will get some new organisational form. And if we followed our rules of procedure, in fact, the proposer of this proposal would find it difficult to find two comparable systems in the Member States of the European Union. To us who have sometimes proposed laws in the opposition, Parliament's legislative service has strongly refused us if we have not attached two comparable systems from EU countries. So for such a proposal as is before us today, it would be difficult to find a comparable situation in the Member States where we will enter the second year of May. At that time, there have actually been some changes to this law since the first draft of the law, and at least for our Group of Members, I can say that we have also had a thorough discussion with the representatives of Darsa and we have wanted to clear up some of the issues concerning this law. The fact is that it is now somehow clear that this new Dars will conclude two contracts with the Republic of Slovenia. That one contract will still be for that area that deals with the issue of the construction of motorways and that it will continue to guarantee all the funds that this new Dars will rent for this purpose. Thus, the state will continue to make guarantees and Dars will, of course, not invest any of its resources because it will not have its resources for this purpose. The second is the area of operation and maintenance, which will be regulated on the basis of the concessional relationship between Darsa and the Republic of Slovenia. So it is very important to us in New Slovenia how these two contracts will define these two tasks. In particular, this seems to us to be an important fact that in this new law the government appoints a majority in the supervisory world. So the government does not agree that a part of the members of the Governing Council, as before, would appoint a national assembly. With this, of course, if the National Assembly had its own representative in the Supervisory Council, it could in some way exercise control and control over the operation of this new Dars. The government doesn't agree. Of the six representatives of the Supervisory Board, which, of course, will then also appoint an administration, the government will propose four, two from the Ministry of Finance and two from the Ministry of Environment and Space, which means, in other words, that the government will appoint new Dars through its representatives in the supervisory board. We are even convinced that this is not even in accordance with the company law, because there is a definition of who and how the board of shareholders is appointed. It seems to us that in this situation, when the actual State Assembly is the one that will still be in this situation, when the State Assembly will be the one that will adopt the plan, when the State Assembly will decide whether to recapitalise or privatise, to what extent and to what extent it would be appropriate for the State Assembly to also give consent to these two treaties. If this concept had been adopted by the government, since the government was opposed to this amendment, then the State Assembly would in fact continue to exercise its supervisory role over the operation of this new Dars. Otherwise, these treaties will be written as the government wishes, it is said, past the National Assembly, and that is also the purpose of this government. Whether this new form, Darsa’s organization, will bring any positive change is, of course, difficult to say at this time. If we have listened to the representatives of Dars, this must be done in order to enter the European Union, especially under the conditions of membership in the European Union, it is unacceptable for the management and maintenance of works on the highway to be carried out within the framework of public undertakings. This must be done under the conditions dictated by the European Union, free to market. We understand that these operators need to be protected in some way under these conditions, but we wonder, of course, if this will benefit citizens and citizens, if the road programme is to be completed sooner or later, if this, which is why Dars was also established, is what has been done earlier and of course we are also interested in how much this will cost our citizens and citizens. As has already been said, these questions are difficult to answer. We trust that he is looking in the right direction in these matters, but we would like the National Assembly to actually retain control of the work being done by Dars. And if you would like to perform this function, then I expect you to support this amendment proposed by the SDS to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u296	Thank you very much. No one wants Mr. Tank, they want a word, and then Mr. Weber. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u297	Well, I am surprised that there is absolutely no desire to discuss such an important issue as €6.7 billion worth the state's assets and the transformation of the company that will manage the next 30, 40, 50 years with this property. The applicant stated in his explanation that this transformation was necessary mainly because of the state's exceptional situation. And I agree that this is an emergency situation in the country, because neither the conditions nor the effects of this transformation are defined anywhere. They're not written anywhere, and that's one of the big, very big flaws. The other thing is. The entire business of the company is withdrawn from the public eye, withdraws from control, as the National Assembly cannot no longer appoint its representatives to the Supervisory Board. That's just how it was submitted. All of Darsa's business will take place on a government-social basis. This will also make it easy for all these control mechanisms to shut down. As I said, the reasons are unclear, the question is whether such a transformation is in accordance with the public interest or the national interest of this country. If this were in this interest, then there would be no problem for the applicants to record the effects of this transformation. There's obviously no such effect. And more or less, it's obviously a design, as I said earlier, of a certain "by-pass" that will manage this property. The problem of marriage is another. At this stage, all these activities on motorways unite, both construction and management and maintenance, while the law further permits the establishment of new companies, new segments that will further disperse Darsa's activities - the new Darsa - and control of this activity will be even more difficult for those who want to do so. In short, it is one systemic approach that is very similar to all the transformations that have taken place since 1990. And I think that the citizens of the transformation of the company in the way that the coalition has submitted do not deserve. Here, I don't think it's any problem with Dars or Dars' decision. This is a policy decision that runs this system, and I am sorry that the coalition has sent Mr Presecnik's 'hand in the net' and has not taken responsibility for the financial operations of this country and for the companies in this country. This, I think, is one of the major shortcomings and this is also one of the systemic approaches to how this property will be managed and what will happen in this area, as well as with other public companies in other segments. I don't think that's going to be the last case we're going to deal with until 1.5, but now we're going to be trying to bring all these things together quickly and to establish some state after 1.5. 2004 would no longer be possible. And this is one of the great handicaps, from the great problems and causes of mistrust in such restructuring. There can be no reason to transform Dars as well as the entire construction management system and road maintenance date 1.5. 2004 That's not the reason. There are other reasons. Those who are not recorded here in this work, and the consequences of these are very great for our citizens, for all those who fill this budget register. Once again, I point out that an important part of the funds that Dars has now had in his accounts as a public company and used it to maintain, manage and build highways, these funds will be re-disbursed in the form of profits, and this profit will be distributed. It can also be used to set up a new company. Companions will make sovereign decisions in this area. Such an undertaking will take over one segment of successful work and the ownership process in this area will simply move in the direction, as in many other cases. I think that the citizens and the budget will be left with only the burdens. In short, when the need to rebuild roads occurs in 30 years, at least it will come back to the budget and laws will be passed again and I do not know what to do with these matters. In short, I think the procedure you set up is absolutely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u299	Thank you. With the amendment to Article 6, which we are currently dealing with, of course, there are important solutions, and we can also read here that there is actually an additional consensus of the National Assembly on the Treaty to be concluded with a view to the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways. In the response given by the government to these amendments, we can read and see that this is actually a duplication of this case, because the National Assembly will adopt both the national programme and, of course, the annual programmes and the content of these contracts are then the annual programmes that we will adopt in the National Assembly. What seems particularly important to me in this transformation of Dars, however, is that in Slovenia, before we enter the European Union, we also regulate this far-reaching programme that has been implemented in the last period, and it is important that we try to implement it primarily with our own resources and with our own capital. And that seems to me to be the most important decision in the adoption of this law, that the construction of motorways does not rely solely on public budget resources and on funds which are collected under the specific law, but we are also trying to obtain private capital or private funds for this purpose. These private funds are, of course, provided primarily - or, I think, that only this case will happen, that it will only go to issuing debt securities, and, of course, this is a difference compared to other countries. However, this form retains, above all, the possibility of building with the capital we have within our country, and this seems to me to be extremely important, and in particular in my opinion we are meeting the national interest and not opening up this space after entering the European Union to all those who would certainly like to enter this market. For a few resources will have to be invested in this programme in order to complete the motorway programme in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore somehow cannot agree that these changes are not necessary. Change is necessary. Above all, it is a matter of urgency that we will complete the construction of the motorway cross and, of course, create the conditions that are necessary both for development, I will say, Slovenia itself, as well as for the acquisition of all traffic flows, which we will have to take into account also in accordance with the common transport policy planning in the European Union. And in practice so far, it has been shown that we are often in Parliament because, or so far, organisation is such that these discussions are taking place in the way that the Economic Services Act provides for, and that many times, in fact, because of - in this case, it is likely - the lack of transparency between income and, of course, the opportunities that we are giving in adopting annual programmes or the national programme, there has been an ever-increasing gap and growing commitment in this area. I think that these commitments will be much more precisely defined in the future, much more precisely planned, because the company will assume an extremely large responsibility. Not only will it have the resources available for the implementation of this programme, it will also assume commitments for the loans already hired and also for the repayment of all future loans. So here we will always have enough accurate information in the future that we can weigh, whether we will destroy this balance in the company, in society or not. It is also envisaged that the company will remain 100% state-owned, which means that the outflow of certain concession fees, as long as it is 100% owned, by other investors in the company or by other shareholders - will not be until this time, as long as it is 100% owned. And if there is a change, of course, it will be decided by the National Assembly. Therefore, I believe that there are quite a few mechanisms that give us a good basis for working forward, even in the National Assembly, and not least that the motorway cross will be built, as I have already said, in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Kind of like what you said. First Mr. Pohorec, then Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Sok. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna cut back a little bit because my friend said a lot of things to me. It is essential for me: the law will be adopted by the National Assembly, it is so far and it will also change it, and it will continue to be in the future, and it will still have all the power to determine, at some point, what will be the most appropriate for the country at some point in time, that we will have a successful company Dars, who will now take care of the construction and management of the motorways, perhaps later only for the management of the motorways when we have these roads built. This won't be quick. If I look at this Article 3b in the framework of Article 6, I see for several decades that, for the first time, we will build all the roads, because we are likely to add a route to the national programme - we are probably not finished with what we have written today. And when this is done, it will probably take some time to pay it back. Thus I do not see fear that we will not hold like a national assembly for a long time - probably in another already - hand over it. It also seemed to me that these amendments would be good, but there are explanations, and I am also taking over what the government says: the national programme is adopted by the National Assembly, and every year we receive a report and each year we also receive a hearing and agree on the annual plans. Here is our role to say whether Dars is doing well or not, but Dars will have to loosen up a little bit, leave him with the possibility that another capital will come into this area of highway construction.With that important provision, 51% of the stake is in the country, and so will all the right to decide how Dars will work and deal with these funds that the state is also investing on our side. I therefore agree with this provision of this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u303	In my view, it is right that it has been decided to make a real economic company out of Dars and to regulate relations between the Republic of Slovenia and society through a contract that will define in more detail obligations, modes of business, ways of controlling certain things that are referred to in this Article under Article 3b. The matter that is actually being offered here is, in my opinion, the continuation of some practice that I did not think was the best. In the past, we have initially adopted an annual programme of development and maintenance in the National Assembly, and the company's work programme and reports, and in the framework of the development programmes, we have provided funds in the budget, we have approved guarantees for credits and so on. On the one hand, in fact, there is a huge amount of influence of the national assembly or through the national assembly of the general public, but on the other hand, it seemed to me that those real transparency, real responsibility, when it comes to saying: the management of the company for the construction of motorways is available under a programme approved by the National Assembly, let's say 100 billion. I've always had a feeling that out of 100 billion things have been built up as much as they have been, but not to say that for 100 billion we have to build so many and so many roads, so many and so many other things, and so on. And I believe that with this treaty, the government will regulate all these relations in such detail that, through the supervisory board, there will be two new representatives from the Ministry of Finance and two representatives from the Ministry of Transport, not just some representatives in the supervisory board, and they will be able to directly monitor the implementation of the treaty or the implementation of the programme. From this point of view, it seems to me that if the National Assembly were to consider a treaty to obtain this wider verification in some way, it would have gained some weight, which could also be a camouflage, if any, because the National Assembly has given its consent, and now we are doing it the way we do it. It is clear that the National Assembly must monitor the implementation of the Treaty in a timely manner, the performance of individual tasks which cannot be performed here. They are primarily responsible, as I say, for the supervisory council, which is so-called and so-called, and, of course, for the ministries which are responsible at all, as long as this company is mainly, i.e. 100%, owned by the state and, of course, will mainly draw funds from the state budget and from the guarantees and, of course, from the tolls or from the so-called bonds that are to be issued. That is why I would rather see that things are completely transparent, that we, by law can determine how the state should regulate relations, so in this article these things are done - now whether there is anything else to add or not, of course, is another question. So when this is settled, when this is stipulated by the Treaty, then let proper control be done and report to the National Assembly on the one hand through the implementation of these programmes, and, of course, ensure in the part where we accept the plans also the task, if I say so. But basically, an economic society with its own administration, with its own authorities, must be the one to deal with these things on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u304	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I am personally convinced that it would be very good if this law were adopted with the highest possible consensus in the National Assembly and the minimum of what the opposition would naturally require to be at least one of these: whether consent to these two treaties by the National Assembly or change the composition of the Supervisory Council. The government does not agree on either; how under these conditions the National Assembly will be able to exercise its supervisory function. Something was said and said here before. See, this law provides that the State must provide funding annually at the level of the financing account. Thus, the return of loans under this law remains at the expense of the citizens. Next. If Dars can - and will be in debt - we can be in debt with the state guarantee. And here to talk about some kind of great responsibility Darsa is, of course, on these assumptions, I don't know how to put it, probably as they call it - empty. So, for all these burdens, the end will be, as far as the agent's treaty is concerned, the responsible state, and the highest representative of this country is certainly a parliament, not a government, but a parliament. What is the national interest in the construction of motorways? It is certainly a matter of national interest to get to the construction and/or the network to connect the whole of Slovenia as soon as possible to this network of motorways. And if it is necessary to decide here that this interest should also be exercised through foreign capital, then of course, Mr Weber, there is no need to fear this foreign capital. We, as we have understood in our conversation with the representatives of Dars, are making this status change precisely because no foreign society would come to our market and take over our highway program to manage or maintain it. We agree, we take this step together, and we establish this new Dars, and we also protect the interest of all those who are already doing this today, and we have also told them this in our conversation. We do not understand why Parliament, which will adopt a development plan that adopts this law, why Parliament would not reserve the right to simply say that we do not understand that agreement on these two treaties. Neither does the government argue, in explanation, when this amendment rejects, why should it not be. If I read it, the government says, "the treaty under this article means only the regulation of mutual relations" - it is said, only the regulation of mutual relations - 2 between the State and Dars, a share society". With regard to the implementation of the national programme. The national programme shall also be adopted by Parliament, which shall be implemented by Dars upon the request of the State. It follows that the contract referred to in Article 3b should therefore not regulate anything contrary to the adopted plan act adopted by the national assembly. So it's the National Assembly again. And so on. There would be no harm, but I think it would be of great benefit if we agreed that the National Assembly would give its consent to this treaty, not as said by colleague Anderlich, that the government would be the one responsible for the contract, that the government was the one responsible through the Supervisory Board for the appointment of administrations and that Parliament was thus excluded from this supervisory function. I know it will be difficult to tell and achieve this, but at least in the magnetogram it will be written, maybe for later when you do - but you can not - you can see that it was not only with the organisation of this new Dars, or with this status change achieved what we all expect together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u307	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. I think some of the explanations are needed in these discussions that have been held. Now, if the government or the coalition has found that matters in such a constitution as has been so far do not work, it is the simplest thing for a government to conclude a contract with a public undertaking. That's not the only case. In order to implement a specific programme, all other institutions establishing public undertakings must also conclude a contract for the performance of works. It's the most common thing. And if these matters were as misplaced as you said, Mr Anderlich, then these matters could also be defined there. No problem. If the matter had not worked, we could have acted long ago and settled the situation for Dars and also within Dars. Well, the ruling coalition has scissors and canvas in this area and all the possibilities. Clearly, however, these things did not work so badly that they needed to be done. And this matter or this contract is just being used as some kind of transition, like a cart, so that other things can go on. The next thing is building with public or private or combined funds. The fact is, Dars will be building public funds with one way or another until the property process is in place. If he rents the funds, he'll also get state guarantees, the payer in the event of Dars' incompetence will be the state. And the fact is that Dars has already paid credit from toll assets, and even after the new one, it is anticipated that credits from tolls will be paid. However, if there is a lack of money, it will be necessary to determine whether it is a public undertaking or whether it is an economic association. Well, that's how it's going to be defined. The system will not fail because contracts are made for 20 years or so, plus an extension for half of that. It says it clearly in there, and that's what's gonna happen. And like I said, in the extreme phase, a contract like this could be 50 years long without any kind of thing breaking up. The next thing Mr Weber mentioned was private funds. In what way? Once Dars is mastered, there will be sources of private funds. These will be the only means that can be eliminated and can then be managed as private funds and with these private resources - I have already said in the introduction - either new companies can be set up or taken over, such and such tasks, including for construction or for other things. The identification of the Ministry of Transport - the Minister has repeatedly said this - is that there is no longer any real possibility of a concessionaire coming into this system. They're not here because there are no sections that can handle it. Even those who have not yet been built do not meet the minimum criterion are referred to as PDPs or traffic loads. He's not here. So it's a farce. And the only private funds that will appear in this system are the ones that will be eliminated through the dividends. These are the ones that can be used for construction or other things. No other funds are yet foreseen. They're gone. And I don't think the things you're saying right now are gonna hold up. As far as control is concerned, the state essentially abolishes two controls. One of the controls that the Parliament, which appointed six of its members to the Supervisory Board, has so far been appointed by the other five by the Government. I think they were mostly secretaries from different departments. I could also put more financiers in there, and when the parliamentary part is lifted, the possibility of some members of the supervisory board being also recruited from the opposition is also eliminated. This automatically removes control because the government will not name others than its own, which is perfectly normal and usually in all societies, as well as in ours. And the second thing is, the issue of bonds of this company is not under the control of the Securities Market Agency. This is not now about who the higher authority is, but it is about who is who in this area has the task of monitoring, controlling and also determining whether or not the cases are adopted correctly. Securities Market Agency, this agency is given a "supervisor" in this area. the order, the consent. And if we exclude that, then this system will work completely for itself as a country outside the country. And I think that this sort of thing is one normal country, one normal parliament can't afford it either. And all that talk, I don't know about private, those, the seven, the left, the contracts, the relationship, which is totally "no connection." Because we can do all of this now, and we're not. And again, it's a missed opportunity that we haven't made, and we've exhausted ourselves here without having to. Private means in the construction of highways - I don't know, from Kopra to Maribor, if necessary - could have been done in 1992, 1993, 1994, only when these things were mature. And today it would not burden our financial balance sheets, these credit funds and this debt, and for this money that we threw into the roads, we could build other emergency projects. And the contribution would also be to building highways one and so many percent of GDP. Nor would it be a problem, since it is likely that our Slovenian companies would also carry out their business on these tenders or assigned parts. Probably because they turned out to be competitive. Anyway. Because no one else can make it on our calls. I think this project is pure speculation. Pure speculation, which is intended for anything other than regulating the relationship between Dars and the state. Anything else. And I think that one person, in one mature country that we have decided to protect this public interest and national interest, cannot afford to do so. And in fact, the situation in this area is alarming, critical. And it's about, I don't know, like I said, emergency situations. And I think that all those behind this programme should think a little bit about it, check things out a little bit, or see again that these are the real goals that this country has, whether they are not. I don't think so. I'm sure they didn't. I am also convinced that this public company, this set that has now run this company and the highway programme, will probably do nothing significantly better, nothing else if it is a true economic society. They can't either, they just can't. I think they've worked hard enough so far, I think. If not, then there should be some other consequences and other sanctions. They should be. Since we've been watching so long that some program is going so deformed, I think it's a disaster. If that's true. And by doing so, as I said, there is absolutely nothing else to be achieved but that in the form of profits, an important part of money is taken out of the highway program and that money is placed for other purposes. And compensation for that will be with other sources. And the funds that have been eliminated in addition to the gas tolar are the only free funds in this programme. This profit is one of those free resources. And we're going to replace it with credit sources or bonds and that's why it's a national disaster.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article and open the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group to this Article. Who wants a word? Nobody.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u309	Just two lines, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u310	Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u311	Now, when we look at society, the congregation and the situation in this congregation are not the only body and the only matter that matters in this new society. I think that what we have proposed to delete should also be deleted and that 51 per cent is guaranteed under all parameters. Let there be any right, not just for the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 7 and move on to the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the two amendments. The amendment under order number 3 of the New Slovenia Group is irrelevant, as it refers to Article 11, Article 6, of the basic text of the bill, and not to the amended proposal of the law. This opens the debate on Article 11 and the two amendments to this Article. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u313	Well, this article 11 is in a way one of the specificities of this law, because society and this will probably be the only company in Slovenia that will be able to issue debtors without the approval of the Securities Market Agency. This means that there will be no control in this work, and this will not be the control of the society that this government and this country place as a basic society in this area. I think it is totally unacceptable that any public-owned company, whether it is a public undertaking or whether it is a company operating under the company law, must not operate beyond established rules and past established institutions. This constitutes an unacceptable and excessive exception to our capital market, which is already small, weak and sensitive. This also raises the question whether it makes sense for us to have organised and established these supervisory institutions - one of them is the Securities Market Agency, the other is different offices and other agencies - because when we get to those companies that are primary in some area - and Dars is one of the largest companies in this case - for that society then we make exceptions. This agency then does business only for those small things that still remain on our market, and that's out of the question if that's what we're doing. In short, it's unacceptable! I wonder what the role of the Ministry of Finance was here to make and allow such an exception, such a 'passenger', that such things would even be released in this part of the capital market. This system, which I do not know, manages with 1,600 billion assets and operates entirely outside the control of an institution in charge of securities control. It's a perfect disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Dr. Vidic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u315	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The arrangements under which the approval of the Securities Market Agency for issuing debt securities is not necessary have been carefully considered and re-examined that the proposed legal provision is necessary for the specific financing of the construction of the motorway. The issue of an individual series of bonds is economic only in the case of a large total amount of each issue of bonds. The financing of the construction of the motorway requires gradualness, i.e. relatively smaller amounts in the individual tranches, which, for example, represent a large total amount of individual issuances, which is economical and does not make sense to draw them. At the same time, the company will have to comply with all the provisions of the law on the market for securities and will remain in the control of the Agency, only issuing the permit will replace the consent of the national assembly in the form of a special law on the issue of a particular series of bonds, which is an even stronger guardian. However, duplication of procedures would be unnecessary in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, then Mr. Tanko and Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u317	I don't understand the point of discussing and making an amendment to the SDS. Previously, we have heard that the only private capital that can be acquired is essentially deposits or redemptions of shares of the company, that all other options, how to acquire private capital, do not exist. This Article 11 speaks about this and this form of private capital acquisition is actually made possible through the issuance of debt securities and here is actually the strongest argument why it is also necessary to transform society in accordance with the company law, because if it were not, then of course this private capital could not be included in the construction of motorways. However, if you believe that, of course, private capital cannot be acquired in any way but only through the sale of shares, then this amendment is not in fact necessary because the agency has nothing to control if this is not possible. However, as has been said, in fact a special law will be adopted to issue securities, which will, of course, be adopted in the National Assembly, and will certainly be sufficiently transparent and clear there, because we can and will also get answers to what is the implementation of the programme and the maintenance of motorways and why these funds will actually be spent. It seems to me that there is real progress here in monitoring the highway construction programme more specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u319	Look, Mr. Vidic. The agreement of the National Assembly, which is politically, cannot replace the expertise of the Securities Market Agency. We can politically accept any solution, but it does not sit professionally on the securities market, and once we take it politically, we can break the whole system on this market. That is why this agency is set up on this market to carry out an expert audit and to put matters on this market in a professional and well-founded manner, because otherwise we'll press three times here 'and we'll take it all down if we take these matters politically. The consent of the National Assembly cannot replace this, and this "supervisor" system, which is written here, must remain in writing and must happen controlled, there is no other option. Listen, this can't be done this way. And as for what Mr Weber said. I agree here that these are not the funds that I predicted when I said, from the profit that the only funds are in this programme, but these are the debtors, these are the bonds, these are the loans. This is a loan: either I take it from a bank or I give it with a bond - it's a loan. This is a loan that I repay in one way or another. It's not called a loan, but it's basically a loan. In principle, this is a loan and for this loan and for these bonds, the liabilities and currencies that you have to pay or repay also fall. You have to. These aren't "shankana" funds. And I think that for treason, for the issue of such matters, there must be quality professional supervision, but not that we are waving politically here, but we say, now that we have decided to do so, but it is the right thing to do and we can afford it all because there are enough of us. He can't handle it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u321	I agree that the agreement of the National Assembly is that any part of the company will be sold, that this is a political determination. It is said that agreement is one thing, but the approval of the Securities Market Agency is something else. So it's an expert opinion, and it makes sense for me to support this amendment. Furthermore, as regards the third amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, the chairman says it is irrelevant, but we have tabled an amendment to Article 11. Article 11 speaks of the possibility for a company to carry out economic activities related to accompanying activities related to motorways on a prior agreement by the Government. So this is a range of monitoring activities, from telecommunications services, then, I don't know, from these gas stations, etc. Well, and in this Article, there is also a provision, which states, "the company is obliged to benefit from this activity to finance the operation and maintenance of motorways". Pika. Thus, according to the company law, Article 143 states how profits are distributed. That is why we have proposed this amendment, which says that profit is distributed in the amount of management shares. More. The Law on Public Economics also speaks of loss. The loss in this law is not mentioned in this article. Thus, it is written only as to how this profit will be divided by a special contract between the government and a certain economic society, while the potential loss is not discussed anywhere in this law, and we all know that some companies can also record loss in any business activity. Here I ask the representatives of the government how the procedure will be if this company established to carry out the accompanying activity is to record the loss. Who will then be the one to blame for the loss of this economic society? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u323	Of course, I do not understand this provision in such a way as to specifically address this issue, irrespective of the securities issued, the securities issued by the State. I simply want to support a solution that is the same for state securities and for, say, securities issued by a motorway company that is 100% owned by the State. I ask because, at this point, I do not have this information, if the state has to communicate with the securities market agency on, I don't know, 50 bonds issues, then I will not support this amendment, I'm sorry, if the state also has to go to the agency for permission. However, if the state does not go for permission and is an exception to those 51 bonds issues or as many as there are, 51 series I feel that they are now being issued, if the arrangement in this area is such that no sovereign bond requires the issuer of consent, the approval of the securities market agency, then of course, not even Dars. However, if it is different that others need this permission and that these bonds should be an exception, of course, I absolutely support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. Simply put, I would like to see everyone who is of the same rank on this market treated equally when it comes to corporate bonds or to banking or any other type of arrangement. Therefore, you must make it very clear why this third point was introduced in Article 11 in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u324	Thank you very much. First, an explanation to Mr. Sok. The amendment is undeniably immaterial. The text shows that it refers to the basic text of the law, but not to the amended bill to which amendments should be tabled, because there is no profit from this activity of this text in Article 6th of the amended bill under Article 11. Now, Dr. Vidic wanted to answer these questions. Then there's Mr. Weber and Mr. Bajuk. Dr. Vidic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. The Bank of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia need not obtain the consent of the Securities Market Agency. It's incontrovertible. All bonds of the Republic of Slovenia do not need the approval of the Securities Market Agency. Once again, I would like to point out that the Agency's supervision alone remains, and Dars will be obliged to take full account of this agreement or to fully comply with the securities market law. Surveillance is essential here. Again, I would like to point out that, in our belief, the search for this agreement would be an additional administrative obstacle in some way. Since this bill of consent is proposed by the Ministry of Finance, I think there is any fear that is superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u327	Thank you. I just want to clarify these definitions further in Article 11. The capital market, according to the analysis of all experts in this field, shows that there is a great need or lack of these securities. Of course, it is an empty one that is worth taking advantage of for a simple reason. If we want to build a highway with faster public funds dynamics, then we can only do it in a way that raises taxes. Is this friendly to citizens and citizens? I don't think so. We can borrow credit from banks. Is that a kind, I'll say, relationship with citizens and citizens? I don't think so. But if even citizens can get something out of it, it seems to me that it is actually the most appropriate solution. And that's what we're talking about. Therefore, it is not possible to compare lending with one another, but it is not possible. This is actually a capital market where it is possible to install private funds into public needs, in this case for the construction of motorways.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Just one small explanation to colleague Anderlič and also to the government representative who has now explained or tried to explain this doubt raised by colleague Anderlič. The fact is that the core of this proposal is that this new Dars will be governed by the company law. You can't think, on the one hand, there's going to be a company law and on the other hand it's going to look like a state institution. Decide what you're really defending. The fact is that under the company law it must be and you cannot be equal as if it were the Bank of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance. This is absolutely clear to me, so I don't really understand your explanation. This is completely contradicted by the logic of the company law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss it, I am concluding the debate on Article 11. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u331	If you don't mind, I'd be the chairman. In fact, there has been an inaccuracy in the submission of the third amendment to Article 11. If possible, we would suggest that this amendment should be amended to add the words 'at the level of the management share' in the last sentence of the first paragraph to the word 'company, the debt benefit of this activity' and then to the words 'to be used to finance the operation and maintenance of motorways' in the last sentence of the first paragraph. Therefore, we would add these words, "at the level of the management share", which would then be somehow aligned with Article 143 of the Company Act, which in the second paragraph speaks, "unless otherwise agreed, the profit which exceeds the percentage referred to in the preceding paragraph or with the loss assumes that such a division ratio corresponding to the share ratio is established".
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, by the end of the debate, you may amend, supplement and correct the amendment already tabled. However, I very much ask you to submit it in writing before the vote, so that Members and Members can see the text. This is an amendment to Article 11 under order number 3, which will be amended by the New Slovenia Group. However, we have already discussed this article, and I have concluded it. Article 13(3) This amendment, which was tabled by the same parliamentary group, is irrelevant because this article was not amended in second reading at the home working body. So I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the vote, which will start in 15 minutes, which is at 21.45 minutes. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the second reading shall be open to discussion only on the articles to which amendments are tabled, i.e. on articles and amendments to this Article. This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This concludes the debate because we have exhausted it completely. At 2 p.m. and 45 minutes pass to the vote [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Mr. Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u333	We actually tabled this amendment because we wanted to point out that the law, as adopted, would be inconsistent with Article 250 of the Company Act. That's why we'd like to get an answer on what it's like to appoint the board of the new Dars. On this case, if adopted as set out in Article 13, it is clear that the Darsa administration is appointed by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u334	I think I made myself clear, Mr. Sok. Article 13 is not open because the amendment you tabled was irrelevant. This is how we cannot discuss Article 13. This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I concluded the debate. At 9:45 a.m., we are moving to the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u335	We're moving to the vote. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on cable devices for the transport of persons. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 1a. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 13 votes against 41. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the same motions to Article 22. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the same motions to Article 23. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 18 votes against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on two amendments of the same motions to Article 25. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 70 of us present, 20 votes against 46. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 20 votes against 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment under Articles 1 to 26 of the same motions. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment under Articles 2 to 26. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We will vote on the four amendments to Article 35, with a note if an amendment under 1 is adopted, the proposal of which is the New Slovenia Group of Members, and the other amendments to this Article become irrelevant. Under 2 and 3 are amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and to the 4 coalition groups. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 18 votes against 44. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 70 of us present. 57 votes against 5. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We're voting on amendment number three. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 17 votes against 46. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still vote on Amendment 4 We vote. [[..]] There are 66 of us in attendance, 47 votes against 13. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on two amendments by 35. Article 1(2) Under 1 the amendment of the coalition's sent groups, with a note, if adopted, becomes the next amendment, the proposed amendment of which is the New Slovenia Group of Members, is irrelevant. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 47 votes against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how the amendment under 2 became irrelevant. We move to a vote on two amendments to 35.b. Article 1(2) Under 1 is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, under 2 members of the coalition. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 69 of us in attendance. 18 votes against 42. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 69 of us in attendance. There were 47 votes against 5. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the vote on the last amendment to Article 35.c. The proposal is made by the coalition's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 69 of us in attendance. It's 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have therefore ended our vote on the amendments. I conclude the second reading of the bill. I give my word to a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u336	Thank you so much for voting. I'd like to ask for a third review of the law on Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u337	Thank you very much. I can see that in the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill. Since the representative of the Government proposes that the assembly, under Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the bill, we will proceed to the decision on that proposal. That proposal will not be decided if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 of us present, 53 votes against 15. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law on Friday, 28.11.2003 after the end of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. Continue with the end of agenda 11 - second consideration of the proposal for a law on the protection of underground pits We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment of the LDS to Article 15. A voice explanation, Mr. Tarchoon, then Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u338	I will support the amendment to Article 15. If we do not accept this amendment, then paragraphs 15 and 16 will remain in disharmony. It would also be incomprehensible and inconsistent for an organisation to grant a public authority without requiring the fulfilment of certain criteria and preconditions which are a condition for granting that authorisation. Of course, I think it follows from the debate that some of the concerns are valid, so I propose that we accept this amendment at this second reading, but that it should be upgraded for the third reading by taking into account and allowing the Jamaican association to be designated as the holder of the mandate, of course, provided that it also meets the criteria laid down and in the law itself or in Article 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u340	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have discussed on the Committee the many amendments that are to be introduced into the law, including the very clear Jamar Association of Slovenia. In fact, it was only in article 15 in which we introduced the Jamarska Association of Slovenia directly into the law that there was no vote in all other members of the Jamarska Association. Of course, this amendment, which has been tabled by the LDS Club of Members, eliminates in fact the non-compliance in the law resulting from some kind of inattention in voting on the Infrastructure Committee. I would like to say, however, that the President of the Jamaican Union has explicitly stressed that he supports such a resolution of the law, which has been submitted to the Infrastructure Committee, and there is no fear that the Jamaican Union of Slovenia would lose any power, and he has opposed all the amendments that introduced the Jamaican union into the law. I will also support the amendment of the LDS. If this amendment is not adopted, the law will be inconsistent. And that's another reason. However, I would like to point out that I am in fact in favour of such a solution precisely because the Jamaican Union of Slovenia supports such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u342	Thank you very much. I will also support this amendment. I distinguish between the association of societies and society, and if it comes to the granting of some authority, it can be a good quality society, but if it's a registered relationship, it can only be this one. And why would we limit it only to a relationship, but not to, say, the closest quality lobster society to perform any such tasks? I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u343	Thank you very much. I turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 15. We're voting. There are 68 of us present. 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We turn to the vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 37 votes against 12. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And a vote on the last amendment to the 70th Article of the LDS Club. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 51 votes against 2. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The Government's proposal for a government is not between us, so the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Christmas, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u344	Three amendments are adopted under such a great law. Can we do this tomorrow by voting on the third reading?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u345	Let me explain. I share this thought with you, but the rules of procedure are clear here. The proposer must propose at a meeting of the assembly, propose that, in view of the fact that amendments to less than a dozen articles have been adopted, a third hearing be held at the same meeting. Unfortunately, the proposaler is not here, so, despite the best of will, we cannot do anything differently than we did. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore propose that the Council adopt a decision: the draft law for the third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 70 of us present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development is not suitable for further consideration. We will vote on this proposal for a decision. I'm calling off the vote. Before I go to the vote, I look all over the hall and I ask you to respond to this look on my face. Mr. Kelemina, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Now a little more of you are here than you were in the morning or early afternoon. I would just like to explain that we have tabled a proposal to amend the law on more coherent regional development. We have pointed out a number of weaknesses in the existing law, but apparently you do not want these changes, at least not in the government structure. Of course you don't have your proposals, you don't have any better proposals. The government proposal is reportedly blocked somewhere in the legislative process, somewhere in coordination. That's why, so I found out, it's not at the will of the United List. If they do not have a further guaranteed primate in a given area, then a blockade will occur. By knowing who is the one blocking the effectiveness of this law. Of course, I also wonder what Members are doing. Today, everyone stressed that we have not done almost anything in this area in three years or much less. However, I do not know where the interest of Members is to accelerate effective regional development somehow. I don't know where the mayors or the MPs are, where the municipalities are, where their associations are, where the media are, who are always so smart and visionary to figure out what perspectives and what opportunities with non-execution are, we miss out on the inefficiency of this law. There are many, many uncertainties in this area. In short, you're obviously sleeping in winter. You've slept it in the summers, and you've been drinking it for four or three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u348	I want to explain my voice. The content of the law is such that it certainly prevents the relatively successful implementation of regional development, but in accordance with the possibilities that we have within the government's organisation and, lastly, through the development regions, the statistical regions where we have established regional development agencies. This law would completely change this way of working so far. Since we are at the very stage of accession to the European Union, it would mean that we would enter without, in fact, adequate programmes, because the change between the departments would be so drastic that, in fact, no one would work on programmes and from many cohesion funds, from which it would be possible to obtain funds, would be without them in the future. That is why I will not support this law because the damage to regional development would become too great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Nobody wants to define their voice anymore. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, and 48 and 19 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the amendment bill and the addition of your social protection law. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we will vote on the two amendments to Article 2 of the proposal, both of which are the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting on amendment number one. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 33 votes against 29. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to Article 15. Both are proposed by the New Slovenia Group. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, in favour of 49 votes against 12. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under Article 2 to 15. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 34 votes against 21. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the two amendments to Article 45. The two proposers are the Coalition's parliamentary groups. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting! There are 69 of us present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment under Article 2 to Article 45. We're voting! There are 64 of us in attendance, in favour of 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at the next meeting of the assembly and, therefore, under Rule 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that it adopt the following decision: "The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting! There are 70 of us present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national programme on safety and health at work. We are moving on to a decision on that resolution. We're voting! There are 71 of us present. 68 votes against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with item 15 of the agenda, this is by defending the proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Short-term procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law amending the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 71 of us present, 50 votes against 14. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the conditions for exploiting the energy potential of the lower Sava, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that I have not been informed by the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service that the law is inconsistent. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial fees, reduced proceedings We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I'm informing you that the marriage is not inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 of us present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 9th item of the agenda - second consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the company for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the two amendments to Article 6 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. First, we vote on the amendment under Article 1 to 6. We're voting. There are 71 of us present. 23 votes against 46. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. There are 72 of us here. 20 votes to 49. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the same motioners to Article 7. We're voting. There are 71 of us present. The vote was 22 to 45. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the vote on the three amendments. We also received the amended amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 11. We will vote on it as the last, i.e. as the third to this article. Under 1 we will vote on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. The same amendments under 2 and below 3 on the revised amendment of the New Slovenia Group. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 19 votes against 44. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 19 votes against 47. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. And then there's the amendment under 3. This is, I repeat, the revised amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, which you received on the bench. We're voting. There are 68 of us present, 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. I conclude the second reading of the bill. I give my word to a government representative. Excuse me! I note that we have not adopted any amendments in the context of the second reading and that the assembly will therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, carry out the third reading of the draft law on Friday after the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 31st session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
