ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Please take your seats. We will begin the 38th extraordinary meeting which I convened under the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Rule 60 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm informed that some colleagues have been detained. These are colleagues of Battelli, Dr. Brenik, Dr. Bajuk, colleagues Jakič, Kebric, Mamić, Merlo, Partljič, Pucko, Vnučec, Ferry Horvat and colleague Trofenik for the beginning of the session. We'll set the agenda first. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, which you received yesterday, 29 December. I have not received any proposals concerning the agenda, so the National Assembly could decide on it. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda with one item on the agenda. Please check your voting devices. I do not see any problems in this regard, so we can move on to setting a agenda. We're voting on the agenda. 64 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY REFERENCE REFERENCE REFERENCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW 8. Points of decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 25.11.2003, the National Assembly adopted a law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. On the basis of Article 90 of the Constitution and Article 12 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, the Group of 30 Members and Members submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a subsequent legislative referendum on that law. The request was decided by the National Assembly at its meeting on 9.12.2003 and considered that the content of the request for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular Articles 1, 2, 13, 14 and 15 thereof, and that, by rejecting this law, there would be an unconstitutional effect within the meaning of the infringement of those Articles of the Constitution. For that reason, the National Assembly requested the Constitutional Court to decide on this. This was rejected by a decision of 22.12.2003, which was received two days later by the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall therefore, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative within 7 days of receipt of this Decision, issue an ex-post legislative referendum. To this end, the Internal Policy Committee has drawn up a proposal for a resolution on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, my colleague Lavrinz. President Lavrinc, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Mr President, if colleagues and colleagues agree to hear the oral report and to read to them what is important in the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, then it is okay. Otherwise, I would suggest that it wait so long that this report, including the decree, is prepared. It is necessary to know that the committee closed the meeting only half an hour ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Does anyone want us to stop until we get a motion for a bench? Can we give it to the president anyway? Excuse me? We can't. Then I'll order a recess until the competent services divide the motions of the decree into a bench. Until then, I'm adjourning the session. However, I ask that as soon as possible, as soon as possible, I will inform you as soon as possible five minutes before the meeting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u4	We'll resume the session in five minutes. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. The report of the Internal Policy Committee is now being divided into benches so that the procedural conditions for the continuation of the meeting are met. So at 10 and 27 minutes, I'll resume the session. And I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u5	Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I politely invite everyone to the large debate room. We will continue the meeting, we are at the only point in the agenda, when we request the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. I will now give my word to the chairman of the committee. Comrade Lavrinc will be given the floor, then representatives of the parliamentary groups and colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! You have a brief report before you on the meeting of the working body, that is, the Internal Policy Committee, on the request for a call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. So, 43. urgent meetings, today at 9 a.m., the committee met, addressed this request, and we also had the material prepared, i.e. in the form of a draft decree. It was prepared by our work, the board. The discussion was brief, I must say, the representatives of the initiators of the request are back, but briefly explained the reasons why they requested this referendum and proposed as a possible date for the implementation of the referendum on 22 February 2004. The representative of the Government first explained why, in fact, the decision on this decision had been postponed or why a constitutional assessment of such an initiative had first been sought. The debate by the representative of the legislative and legal service was also brief and she said that she had no comments on the proposal for a decision. However, in the debate of the Committee members, of course, the soberer ones - something, of course, there were also such, more elevated ones - and the discussion was short and I can finally conclude that the Committee has adopted a proposal that is offered to you today for adoption, this is a proposal for a decision to call for a subsequent legislative referendum, so that - if you look on the third page - this would be launched on January 9th for the referendum to be held on Sunday, February 22nd. The question that will be raised at the referendum is also known, and it reads, "Are you in favour of the law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia adopted in the National Assembly on 25.11.2003?" And that's all I think we need to know about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u7	Would you like a representative of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me just a few additional explanations or warnings on the issue that we are dealing with today. As is known, the technical law provides for a range of beneficiaries to issue decisions somewhat narrower than the Constitutional Court’s decision, paragraph 8. The technical law is more selective in this respect. It provides that it does not include those who have obtained a residence permit on the basis of relief or as family members. The abolition of the technical law, which, in a constitutionally corrected way - so also the Constitutional Court in the explanatory memorandum - provided for the way in which the 8th point was implemented, would nevertheless constitute an extension of the circle of beneficiaries and thus the obligation to issue decisions also to those excluded by the technical law and somehow redirected to the system law which requires a criteria approach and also an individual determination of the condition of actual residence. The technical law therefore excludes all those who have not already proved in the administrative procedure that they actually stayed in Slovenia. The abolition of the technical law by referendum therefore means an expansion of the beneficiary circle. It seemed particularly clear to me, especially because in the debates that we had had before, we had heard many times, mainly from the referendum's proponents, a demand for selectivity. This selectivity in terms of excluding categories that have not yet proved their actual stay in Slovenia is essential in this regard. Second. At the request of a constitutional review, the National Assembly has put forward a number of arguments as to why such a referendum, as discussed here today, would have unconstitutional consequences. These arguments still stand; they do not appear to be more widely repeated because the National Assembly is aware of them. It is only important that it has been explicitly highlighted as an argument that the referendum cannot decide on human rights and that the referendum cannot decide whether to enforce a Constitutional Court decision or not. In this respect, therefore, the decision to call for a referendum is at least problematic. And then there's the third one. This time, the Constitutional Court explicitly stated in its explanatory memorandum in paragraphs 24 and 25 - and now there is no doubt about it - that decisions must be issued whether or not the law is adopted. Even more so that they should also be issued during the procedure for the adoption of this law. Decisions will therefore have to be made. It really raises a lot of questions of sense - including the Constitutional Court on this in explanation - of the referendum in the context of decisions being issued, and of whether or not to ask people whether the technical law approves or not, while on another basis, therefore, on the basis of a constitutional decision, it is already directly implementing the law in some way; and not even within its scope, but even within a more substantial framework. I am asking you these three questions about today's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. A member group of the Slovenian National Party shall first be reported. Will you, Comrade Peca? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we even hesitated for a few moments at the beginning whether to express our position or not. This is mainly the result of individual threats, on the one hand, on the other, which we have received in the last period, of course, both from Members and from the Institute of the Group of Members. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that the threat that is at present far greater over the Republic of Slovenia is, of course, a threat in terms of irreconcilability, financial consequences, the functioning of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia around the issue of self-exposure and, of course, the sense of the Slovenian Government, its lability on the one hand to the judicial branch of government, on the other hand, to the various representatives of the European institutions and at the final stage also to individual marginal groups. The fact is, according to our assessment, the Slovenian government has begun to behave very loosely and is prepared in exchange for a smile or praise by anyone to change their own history, on the other hand the past and on the third, of course, the most important part also Slovenian legislation and Slovenian bit. According to our assessment, the aim of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would also be to destroy the various or independent acts for which our country has been commended both by the various European institutions and by the Organization of the United Nations. That is why it seems so irrelevant to us that just a few days after our country's birthday, which we all sang and talked about how important and quality it is to stay in the Republic of Slovenia, which has created living conditions that have quality laws, to change and adapt to each individual requirement in any way or other. According to our assessment, according to the Slovenian National Party, the question of self-exposure is, of course, a question which is intended solely to satisfy the material position of individuals who have entered or entered this country from these or other speculative tendencies. As regards the most important issue around today's agenda item, we must say that all members of the National Party have been proud to sign the referendum request. We have participated in all stages of the debate at the very least in the pre-parliamentary stage, i.e. with initiatives and issues where the law has not yet been in the parliamentary procedure, or at least in the parliamentary procedure, i.e. in the framework of both laws - both substantive and technical or systemic and technical. But we have always encountered an ignorant relationship both by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and by the ruling majority. We have offered and given you various solutions, mainly within the framework of a technical law that would determine, that is, restrict, and legally determine compensations, their height and set an example within the framework of legislation already known by the so-called procedure or the law on war compensation. But no one was willing or willing to listen, let alone communicate and debate and bring the law into such a form that it would be acceptable for the greater majority in this national assembly; that is, to avoid a referendum. In doing so, I would just like to point out that this referendum issue has taken place again in this way, as has all the referendums so far. So, solely and solely because of the insubordination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that large majority in this National Assembly, which is not prepared to accept the consequences of its decisions. Of course, when this machine of the government majority in this national council makes certain decisions without realizing their consequences, it must also take effect on behaviour and the announcement - this is a referendum. The fact is, there is nothing left for the parliamentary minority in such cases. And sadly - and of course much more important - it is that most of the referendums so far, which required a different decision than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has outlined, have succeeded. This means, in my opinion and in the opinion of the National Party, that this Slovenian government should continue to think more wisely. So we shouldn't in certain respects like some kind of tractor or bulldozer ramming through a wall, no matter what the consequences. And the fact is, every action has a certain reaction. And the referendum before us today, or the decision on the decision, is the result, in my opinion, of the unwise actions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling majority within the framework of this National Assembly, which supports the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in all respects. Even when we know that we will meet with a referendum that will have certain financial negative consequences, that is, the price of the referendum, which, of course, will be negligible compared to compensation. Therefore, we cannot at any time talk about the financial effects of the referendum and use this argument as an argument why we should object or why there should be no referendum. The fact is that with this cost of 500 million Slovenian tolars, about as much as they cost the referendums, we will avoid - at some estimates and at prices to which we believe in the National Party - 500 billion Slovenian tolars. So if we put both sides on the scale, we see that we cannot or should not take this argument into account, because even with the referendum, we would bring the state budget in this and even something positive in the coming years. Well, when we talk about the financial, situation or financial consequences of the said matter, that is, the matter of self-named deleted would make sense once and for all to know all those financial speculations that are indirect, which, more or less indirectly, were accompanied by that law. So how many different studies have been made by this country outside the Ministry when this law was written, and how many individuals from the so-called non-governmental profession who, on the one hand, write laws, give the basis for writing these laws and, on the other hand, bring lawsuits against that country and fight and try to do everything in this country to give a certain segment of people who have not created our history a certain rating. In the context of the presentation before me, i.e. the presentation of the positions of the working committee, it was presented by Mr Lavrinc after my assessment of the very unfair report. That is, that a committee chairman may indicate that there have been debates of some who are thinking clearly and some who are performing high-level performances. The fact is that we are different people in this national assembly, and therefore it is not right for the President of the working body to use such disqualification before the public of the Republic of Slovenia when he does not speak on his behalf or on behalf of his political party. According to our assessment, it's a delusion. It is true, however, that it is in the field of the question of self-named deleted in this country that we will either be through the media or through government policy, of course, subject to transposition. On the other hand, I would also like to define myself or, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I would like to stress the disagreement and the deception of Minister Bohinc. So the district minister who said he could have negative consequences for the referendum. We don't think that's true. According to our assessment, it is necessary, for the first time, to say: the referendum is the most extreme option, the most democratic form of decision-making when politics fails. And the fact is, many times in this mandate, the policy has failed. Unfortunately, however, the government policy has always been abandoned, which has also proved to be the outcome of the referendum. And the government party or government party and the government of the Republic of Slovenia do not yet have the wisdom to learn from this history, which, of course, has become something. Thus, from time to time, government parties and the governments of the Republic of Slovenia have also taken into account the ideas of that minority in this National Assembly and, as a rule, these ideas have proved to be correct in all referendums, that they are appropriate for citizens and citizens. Minister Bohinc stated that in the event of a positive outcome, we believe that the existing selectivity would be excluded from the so-called technical law. On the other hand, it must be said that, according to our conduct, after all, even after the conduct of the Committee on Internal Policy and the legal profession, a new law should be written in the event of a positive referendum. So, however, the priorities of determining the content of the new law and a less selective approach to the new law are, of course, the individual work of Minister Bohinc. However, personally and in the National Party, we estimate that in this case, a positive referendum, at least what Minister Bohinc should do, should step down. For it is a fact that it is all from the decision of the Constitutional Court on the issue of deleted on the one hand that misleads the National Assembly and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The following point, referring to selectivity and the new law, could also be quoted from the report of the parent’s working body. If the referendum succeeds, the government will have to draft a new law to address the problem. All is well here, but in the National Party we estimate that this new law should represent a consensus of citizens and citizens. This consensus will be seen from the referendum. According to our assessment, the ministry should not only take a referendum decision as a "yes" or a "no" but, above all, as a reference to the writing of a new law - a law of measure. And that's what we're missing in this country - we're missing laws of measure. The fact is, we don't have a government by measure. The fact is, we don't have a guardian of human rights according to the measure of human beings. That we have individual workers working from moment to moment, however they estimate that they will encounter greater media support and thus come to a hidden popularity between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The next item highlighted by the Minister of the Interior as the ideal institution or the father-in-law of the aforementioned law or the technical and system-wide law on deleted persons, which, according to our assessment, gives them everything or the law of damages, is the so-called intimidation of the National Assembly and probably also of the Slovenian public regarding the issue of decisions without technical law. However, if we all look back a little bit together, it is very soon to realize that the very part of the Members who requested a referendum, that is, those 30 Members, has always drawn attention to the Government's overthrow when it is preparing two separate laws. In order to be a sufficient one, so-called roof law, which in the end would also have, say, a content or chapter on compensations, entitlement to them, and height, which, of course, has already been the practice in Slovenian legislation, and for which we estimate that there is great damage, that there was also no in this law. This same solution, once again, we have offered you in the National Party. Minister Bohinc didn't react to her. Even more, he showed total ignorance. And in such a case do you do? When a solution is offered that would lead us away from the referendum on the one hand - but unfortunately this solution came from the Slovenian National Party. Not a word of the Minister touched on the solution or the SNS proposal. And another under such conditions of parliamentary democracy, then to political parties and individuals who do not blindly follow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, does not remain like choosing a minor evil - a minor evil is a referendum, viewed solely from a financial point of view, as of course a 100 and a few times the amount that will result from the said activity of Minister Bohinec for the state budget in these and coming years. We also assess that the threat of issuing decisions without technical law should not be in the political jargon of the Minister, nor should it be in the sense of preventing a referendum. According to our assessment, the division of power under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia - that is, the judicial branch of power, the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of authority - is the protector who prevents one another from acting in a manner that prevents one authority from being manipulated by another authority. And, of course, what the minister is saying is exclusively manipulating one branch of power with another branch of power on the third branch of power. According to our assessment, Minister Bohinc is manipulating this national council. At the National Party, we will support the referendum decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. He will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, government representatives and others present in this Chamber. This law that I am discussing today, i.e. the ruling, the call for a referendum, had a bad start. It began in such a way that not all the necessary things, such as the Rules of Procedure, were prepared, were not even entered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, he had a bad start, a bad journey, and he's obviously going to end badly with it, just as we predicted. The Constitutional Court also made a statement concerning the referendum initiative in a substantive sense, although the Constitutional Court was not obliged to make such a statement. Unfortunately, it has become the practice of this Constitutional Court to take on an active role, a legislative role in some sense, and this separation between the legislative and constitutional branches of government is increasingly being erased. Of course, the Constitutional Court also assumes a political role in some sense, which is unacceptable; but that is how we accept the decision of the Constitutional Court, we do not oppose it, and on the other hand we have our own opinion. The Minister stressed in the introductory words that the consequences would have arisen if this referendum, i.e. the referendum decision or the referendum decision, had not been adopted - no, the Constitutional Court did not say so. The Constitutional Court - although it would have been enough to say that the initiative was to be rejected - said that there would be no consequences. Why not? Because they themselves claim that it is possible to exercise rights on the basis of a constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court directly. Therefore, the referendum from this procedural and substantive point of view is not unconstitutional, but is totally unnecessary, but is necessary because of all these procedures initiated by the government and continued by the ruling coalition. It's urgent, but it's unnecessary. If there had been no such preparation for the law as had happened, if there had been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, if we had not opposed the amendments proposed by the opposition, the Coalition of Slovenia, then we might have come up with a law that would have adequately regulated any errors that had occurred, we cannot have them foreseen in the future, but the law must have a general character that, on the basis of its generality, the criteria could be issued by the Ministry. This is what citizens expect, and such a law should be. Samples of the correction of similar cases - not exactly the same - we already have from this history of the democratic state of Slovenia, where on the basis of criteria, procedures were provided and, of course, the active role of anyone who felt that he had been wronged - his active role. If anything is necessary, it is only in terms of ensuring a deadline for the submission of a request. Indeed, after the administrative procedure, these deadlines have long expired and, in order to verify any infringements on the basis of, of course, an active application for application, it is necessary to ensure this longer period. And this marriage, the new law should take that into account. In short, we have such solutions regarding similar laws in our history. So the Constitutional Court has rejected the role, but it is a legal act based on the functioning of this National Assembly. In this respect, in the New Slovenia Group, we are very dissatisfied with the work of the legislative and legal service and with the leadership of the National Assembly, because it did not intervene in due time the decision of this National Assembly regarding the referendum initiative. But things can't be pushed back. This law, or legal matter, this issue, must ensure that the principle of selectivity is ensured, in an undisputed way, to identify each individual case of what happened to it. The principle of how our country has acted - as democratic countries have done. We have been informed about this in various forums, institutions within the European institutions. We are well aware that the State of Slovenia has provided the possibility of the status of a citizen, or a foreigner - so this is what we have defined by the referendum - to every resident in this territory directly offered the opportunity to become a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what filled 170,000 citizens, about no one's gonna take my word for it. Therefore, the State of Slovenia has offered this opportunity voluntarily. Of course, it was up to the citizens to decide whether or not to take it. This is the case with all the laws; we are aware of them or we are not - we have been quite familiar with them in this regard. And anyone could have made up their mind. After that, the Republic of Slovenia provided the possibility of obtaining foreign status with permanent or temporary residence of approximately 30,000 individuals. In other words, without any complications, more than 10% of the current population of the Republic of Slovenia have settled their status in the new country, which is certainly proof of the liberality and democratic orientation of the current Slovenian political direction. The Republic of Slovenia's approach to solving this complex and sensitive issue, which has also been a novelty for Europe, has been an exceptional assessment, with particular reference being made to the comprehensive excellent assessment of the organisation that we have carried out at that time. In 1993, experts from the Council of Europe Citizenship Committee participated in Ljubljana at an international seminar on citizenship and expressed the view that the resolution of this issue in Slovenian legislation is in line with all the established standards for regulating the status of citizenship in cases of succession of countries. The same was true in 1995 when the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations Organization in Geneva reviewed the first Slovenian Human Rights Report and adopted it without any comments and when, in New York, the compliance of Slovenian laws with international standards was verified and confirmed by the Sixth Committee of the United Nations on Legal Matters. The Slovenian state does not have to be ashamed to act undemocratically. However, she expects or has laid the foundations for ensuring justice and that anyone who resides here can decide whether to be loyal or to become a citizen or to have the status of a foreigner - in short, it was his decision. Some decided otherwise, and that was their will. If something happened that would cast a shadow, we also had this benevolent in our opposition to adopt a law that would verify a possible violation. Now only this in this regard: the costs of the referendum are certainly great and unnecessary, because we said that the referendum is the result of some acts and is therefore unnecessary; but it is necessary at this point, although some of you said, also the minister that it does not specify anything and that it does not influence. Then why accept such a marriage? Why, for what purpose, if it does not specify anything? In short, a bunch of complicated claims that are unconstant. In short, the costs are certain, but as a result of these unnecessary actions. By the way, let me mention that the government has spent 25 billion tolars with Eurobonds alone, with one single act, an act that will not go to our country or to those who will hold a referendum or otherwise due to inter-currency changes; this will all go abroad. This is the amount by which we will be able to cover any possible referendums that will result from the arrogance of the authorities for the next three centuries in the event of equal treatment. Of course, we will support this resolution on the call for a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Mr Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Before giving substantive reasons for the party's position on the motion for a ruling and the problem that we are dealing with today, in general, let me say that, in our opinion, we must attribute responsibility for the complications of regulating the status of so-called deleted and also today's extraordinary meeting in its entirety, in addition to the fully politicised constitutional court in this case, to the Government, which, instead of a single solution to the problem in one law, came before the legislature with two laws, as well as an official coalition, which has completely unequivocally rejected our amendment to the law, which would allow individual cases to be dealt with individually in the interest of fair decisions. Neither this meeting nor the referendum would be necessary if, in Slovenia, we had a normal constitutional court and a normal authority to take care of the well-being of all its citizens in accordance with the constitutional oath. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that Slovenia is the country of all its citizens and citizens, nowhere does it say that Slovenia is a foreign country. Foreigners are guests in Slovenia, we accept them as friendly hosts if they accept the legal order that is in force here, and such rules apply everywhere in the democratic world, and they certainly do not have the same rights or even more rights as Slovenian citizens are trying to tell us these days. Even less, Slovenian citizens and taxpayers are obliged to pay some compensation to those who never believed in Slovenia. Unfortunately, in Slovenia today we have both a constitutional court and a general authority that has turned against its citizens, the fact is that most parties to the government coalition want the proposed laws on the so-called deleted and with the help of the Constitutional Court, which the government, as we have it, has self-formed and voted all the judges itself, to produce some 10,000 new voters at the expense of all taxpayers in a short time. And it is proud that the signatories to the referendum request, in a specific case, defend the state from its government or, rather, from its authority. We defend in the manner provided for by the Constitution in Articles 3 and 90, when it stipulates that in Slovenia the authority of the people and this authority is given priority by the people directly through the referendum and then indirectly by the elections. The SDS Group believes that today's meeting should not be at all, as the referendum should already be held on 9 December. However, if we had normal authority, such a law as it was adopted would never have been on the agenda. And also this requirement for a referendum, of course, would not be necessary in this case. We could do what our authority always neglects - with the well-being of Slovenian citizens. We believe that Slovenia has gained its independence in a very civilized, legal and democratic way and that we are proud of it. By independence, we have not caused any injustices, even the least so-called deletions. On the contrary, it is only through Slovenian independence that we have created a basis for respect for human rights and political freedoms, which have been repeated many times before. In the opinion of our Group, it is necessary to adopt the proposed decision not only because of a legal obligation which does not permit any other decision to the Assembly but also for the following substantive reasons. We believe that the very use of the term "deleted" is not appropriate and misleading, but denotes the category of people of Slovenia without Slovenian citizenship who had a permanent residence in Slovenia on 23 December 1990 and should, within the time limit laid down by the law, apply for all the same, apply for or wish for citizenship, or if they did not wish to do so - and most of all they did not want - the status of a foreigner with a temporary residence. This should be done no later than two months after the deadline within which they could, but they did not want to regulate their civil status. The terms of the law were therefore publicly known, the time limit for considering debt practically in the substantive sense from plebiscite in December 1990 to February 1992, when Slovenia was already an internationally recognised country. Everyone affected knew in advance that if they did not want Slovenian citizenship, they would have to leave the country if they did not want to apply for foreign status. The Aliens Act, which was adopted on 5 June 1991, laid down very mild conditions for obtaining the status of a foreigner with temporary residence status, as well as for the status of a foreigner with permanent residence, provides for a number of facilities for family members and so on. The main condition for the recognition of permanent alien status was the three-year continuous residence in the Republic of Slovenia. And the three-year period was extended from three to eight years only in July 1997, when we had no more Demos' government for five years. The Ministry of the Interior was obliged to respect existing legislation and had to align the records with the applicable legal basis. That citizen of any of the other republics of the former SFRY, who has not applied for citizenship or for the status of a foreigner with a temporary residence, and has so clearly expressed his will to leave the country, of course he could no longer be in the permanent residence register. The fact is that most of the so-called deleted at the time in the country were in fact gone. They left without checking out their permanent residence. Some of them, especially officers of JLA and employees of some other implementing bodies, were physically demolished before leaving Slovenia in October 1991 but did not officially sign out. It is clear that there is a possibility that, for example, a legal or otherwise illiterate citizen might have overlooked the creation of a independent Slovenia and did not know in the public domain the much-described amended legislation and therefore did not regulate his formal status. However, this is not the fault of the Slovenian state and even less is why someone is entitled to compensation. Long years after the independence of the category so-called deleted in Slovenia practically did not exist. Only some of the problems in the mid-1990s related to some of the more well-known members of the former JLA, such as the former member of the Assembly of the United Republic Assembly and Colonel JLA Aksentijevic, for whom the then Member of the United List and the current Constitutional Judge Cyril Ribičič, were publicly known. The so-called deleted category began to become mass only after the international community stopped the Serbian aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the situation in the former republics of the former SFRY deteriorated dramatically. Slovenia suddenly seemed a very attractive country to all those who arrogantly rejected our very generous offer of citizenship in 1991. And many returned to Slovenia illegally, without registration, just as they had left Slovenia, or returned with passports from other countries. In Slovenia, either in accordance with existing legislation, they have applied for temporary residence status and have received it most of the time, or have secured the status of so-called permanent deleted, which apparently ranks even higher on the potential compensation exchange. However, they may have been granted a permanent stay on the basis of a legal provision previously cited by the Minister of the Interior, and there has not been much to talk about in recent cases. As this category of so-called deleted has increased and exerted internal and international political pressure, the Slovenian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government in July 1999, adopted a law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries in the former SFRY area. In 1999, this law again made it very generous to grant permanent residence to all those who have proved in their role that since 23.12. 1990 live continuously in Slovenia, except for those - this was an exception - who were convicted of very serious crimes at that time. Of course, this law did not give the status back, since it was only in 1999, four years ago, that no one thought of blaming the country for the negligence or speculation of individuals in 1992. However, the Constitutional Court also intervened in this law and repealed certain of its provisions. Among others - and this is virtually not heard - the Constitutional Court also annulled the possibility of refusing to grant status to those who were convicted of very serious crimes at that time. In total contrast to the Constitution, it was also stipulated that the Ministry of the Interior must automatically issue supplementary decisions in recognition of the permanent stay back, all from plebiscite, although, as the Minister of the Interior has said today, there is also a number of categories that go beyond a thousand, which were not proven to have been in Slovenia at that time, but received these decisions because of different other grounds, many because they had relatives here. Now this opinion of the Constitutional Court has not been able to be realized by the government, since it is in direct contradiction with 153rd and also in substantive contravention of Article 155 of the Constitution. For it is clear in the Constitution that public authorities can only issue decisions on the basis of law. Of course, the controversy on this issue is a very interesting position of the former Constitutional Judge, who today claims that the Ministry of the Interior must issue decisions without law because it is sufficient by a general decision of the Constitutional Court, the same person, of course Matevž Krivic, and in 2000 he publicly called for the boycott of the Constitutional Court decision in the majority electoral system if it is unconstitutional. The law, as proposed by the Government and as a result of which we have tabled an initiative for a referendum, is unfortunate both by title and by content. The law does not save, as in some doctrines it misdirects the understanding of the status of so-called deleted because they already have it. As already stated in Article 1 of the Law, it is people with citizenship of other countries, who also have a permanent residence in Slovenia. It is said that this law does not solve any hardship and no status, saves or reverses those who already have citizenship of another country, and in Slovenia already have a permanent residence, it is said that they are not in any trouble at all. The law therefore emphasises only a continuous stay for all the way back to plebiscite, which is constitutionally controversial and, of course, has two very difficult consequences: a longer continuous stay in Slovenia is, among other things, a less demanding, a fundamental condition for obtaining the status of a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and, at the same time, the citizenship of the European Union from May next year. They can practically get another passport and another election right immediately. The granting of back-up status also makes it possible to file indemnity claims that are already announced and which can severely weaken Slovenian public finances. The government argued in its explanation of the law that it does not allow for the calculation of indirect financial consequences in advance and that talking about 800 billion tolars of high potential damages is a fraud to the public. We agree that Slovenian taxpayers will certainly never pay $800 billion in compensation to the so-called deleted, because we simply do not have this money. It is also certain that, in the event of the imposition of such or similar legal provisions, the compensation action will be filed and that there is no one today who can melodely tell where the numbers in damages will stop. If anyone under both laws - one already adopted, the other in the procedure - granted a permanent residence back, claimed only a million tolars from the country, they would pay damages worth over 20 billion. Let me recall, however, that at the same meeting where members of the government coalition or members of the government coalition were so vehemently supported by this law, it seemed to you that it seemed too much to devote 10 billion to subsidising the diet of students and apprentices; the budget was very important there. At the time of the presentation of the law, the government claimed that all those who had already acquired the status of a foreigner and who would have given the marriage back have already proved that they had been in Slovenia continuously since plebiscite. This claim is theoretically impossible if we know the legal hands. Today, however, the Minister of the Interior made it clear that it was also a large number of categories, which did not need to be proved even as long as the law required, because they were exercising the right to permanent residence on the basis of certain other provisions. Lawmakers also try to prove that the same person was able to stay in two different places or two countries at the same time. All those in the so-called deleted category, which now have passports and nationality of the countries which were created in the territory of the former SFRY and which did not yet exist in February 1992, had to acquire the nationality of those countries at that time. Many of these emerging countries do not automatically grant citizenship, but require a registered permanent residence in these countries, which means that we will give permanent residence back to someone or many who have had this residence registered in other countries. This, I will say, is not only contrary to some normal legal order, but also to physical laws. From the sum of these deadlines and what the Minister of the Interior has said today, it can be concluded that many of the categories referred to in the Act have not been able to live continuously in Slovenia at this time, all the time, as the government has argued. From this point of view, the vote of the ruling coalition against the addition of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which allowed individual checks on permanent residence, was extremely reckless and is not the cause, but certainly the reason that we are in the situation we are in today. In the debate, in support of this law, it has been heard that human rights do not have a price and that all those who oppose it express intolerance. It is quite clear that the human rights of an individual or group in a society or a country are limited by the same rights of other individuals and groups. The democratic system cannot otherwise function, as in the case of the defence of absolute freedom, the right of the most powerful is restored in the end. The laws adopted by the Slovenian Parliament or the Assembly to regulate the transition from a totalitarian to a democratic system are an illustrative example of the limitation of rights. One of these laws is also the law on denationalisation. This law, however, provided that the nationalised property would be returned to the original owners or compensated if the property was not obtained in nature, but the law ruled out the possibility that those who had been injured would be able to file damages for the time when the property was not owned and owned and when they had certainly been wronged. The principle of justice and the principle of respect for human rights would certainly require compensation. In other words, human rights don't have a price, and then that's what needs to be done. In this case, however, the State would go bankrupt and most taxpayers would be severely injured. That is why this restriction was adopted at the time. This position also reopens the debate on the price of human rights when it comes to those who sacrificed most for Slovenian statehood and independence. A few years ago, in this same room of torment and after long conflict discussions, we brought through the procedure our proposal for a law on compensation for family members who fell into the war for Slovenia, where the same parties who now claim that human rights do not have a price have complemented the scholarships of children who have fallen, even though we can count them several times on both hands. In that debate, the largest government party has consistently demonstrated that they have not only rights but even lives that have fallen for Slovenia, for which it is very low. Content exactly the same law as the one we are now proposing for the referendum, as well as the so-called system law that follows it and which gives some, in our opinion unjustifiable, rights back, could be written for all those who, in this case, were, in fact, against their will, by decisions and actions of the communist authorities after 1945, deleted from civil records or expelled from permanent residences and suffered many injustices and harm. If, in the opinion of the largest government parties, from now on, there is no price for human rights, these tens of thousands also need to be reimbursed for a truly unjustly deleted backlog for all decades, thus allowing them to file damages. Can you imagine just that amount? If a retroactive principle is applied for compensation for damages for the removal, two neighbouring countries, without major problems, relying on non-discrimination, will require the same retroactive approach, for example, to optentants and war-torn and deleted members of the former German minority. While we are opposed to the law, we must also make it very clear that there is no division on a national basis in different positions or in different groups of positions that have been formed alongside it. It is more about dividing by loyalty to the Slovenian state, to look at what citizenship means for whom. I can say that, months ago, when we also collected citizens' signatures for the referendum initiative, in the event that enough Members' signatures were not collected, we also collected many signatures of non-Slovenian citizens who were loyal in 1991, especially in the case of some mixed laws or officers' families, it was not always an easy decision. Now they see the same powerlessly trying to favour those who were then asked for Slovenian citizenship, ridiculed or even threatened. Recently, residents of a block in Ljubljana told me how some of this society had been wiped out. [[name]] We have already gone to look at the apartments of the former Yugoslav army, when they will now demand it back because it belongs to them, although it is clear that this fund has become the property of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of all this, the proposed law does not in any case deserve the mark of an act that corrects injustices, because it causes them to a much greater extent, given its non-selectivity on the one hand and discriminatoryness on the other. The law is basically unfair to all loyal citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, irrespective of their national origin, as it consequently requires those who have been loyal to or even actively fought for Slovenia to pay, inter alia, compensation to those who have threatened the country or have obviously played its rules. It is not true that someone who did nothing special and served in the Yugoslav army during the war on Slovenia did no crime. The service in the enemy army was characterized by the Slovenian legislation, which was already in force, as a serious crime and anyone who did not join the Slovenian territorial defence during the war, committed this crime when he was in the Yugoslav army. The only real motive for such a law, which is non-selective and then allows non-selective decision-making, is political. The largest government parties want to produce a few thousand new citizens and voters in the drought that is coming. All means, especially lies and fraud, are used in this. Today, as in 1989, 1990 and 1991, xenophobia is revived in some of the circles that remained in power until Slovenian independence. And unfortunately, the main actors of this phenomenon come from the power centers and other power centers, and they mix everything that resembles patriotism. In addition, they forget that patriotism is a recognised and valued value in all Member States of the European Union and NATO. So much impatience for everything that has created Slovenian statehood, we have not experienced it in a long time. The last few months have been record-breaking. This year's talk about the injustices caused by independence comes from the same political logos from which the opposition to Slovenian independence came in 1990 and 1991. We recall then the statement made by SRS President Janez Stanovnik or the self-proclaimed father of the nation, who said that Slovenian suicide would be a national suicide. Or statements by his successor, who still enjoys the privilege of paying taxpayers, who claimed a good year before plebiscite that Slovenia can only survive as part of a socialist Yugoslavia. In these and similar statements and positions, those who did not like Slovenian citizenship or in Slovenia did not want to regulate the status of a foreigner in accordance with the law, which was the same, saw support for their conduct. Neither those who made these statements nor those who followed them believed neither in the national power of the Slovenians, nor in the positive development of international relations after the fall of the Berlin Wall, nor in the collapse of the communist totalitarian regimes in Europe. It is a political backdrop, which is still fueled by the origins of class and cultural warfare and which immediately labels and disqualifies its political opponents, preferably by fascists. They're impatient and xenophobic. They're always different. Using double criteria is a rule. Who, distinguished colleagues in power, condemned the statement that it was necessary to kill the voters of the presidential candidate, Dr. Jožet Bernik? Where was then the Ombudsman who had not yet been, but was a public figure, Matjaž Hanžek, where was Milan Kučan and Janez Stanovnik and Anton Rop when it came to extreme intolerance? Either they kept their mouths shut or they made statements. And the so-called independent court ruled that such statements were not contrary to the law. Yesterday we also listened to the official New Year's Ambassador of the Slovenian Prime Minister. He only addressed it to citizens and those who live in Slovenia. For the first time in twenty years, hundreds of thousands of our kinsmen were released in place and throughout the world. They don't exist for our authority. We have also waited 12 years for the law required by the Constitution. The Constitution requires the adoption of a law on the special rights of Slovenians around the world. Why are you here, gentlemen of authority, in no hurry? Who, for example, condemned anti-piracy intolerance when the Strenikoff group appeared in an insult to Christendom’s greatest symbol? Where were the antixenophobic swabs then? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes require the same criteria for all. Declaring different views on government law with intolerance is an insult and the first step towards reintroducing a verbal delinquency, which has a political option that combines this word with daily, rich historical, and many of them with personal political experience, as they have adopted or even developed such laws and consistently implemented them. It is no coincidence that one of the main legal advisers is the most active users and, in particular, users of speech on intolerance, former Yugoslav and Slovenian repressive criminal law creator Ljubo Bavcon, who is also a direct participant in the most bloody accounts in Slovenian post-war history. So who is today teaching us about tolerance and tolerance? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Comrade Janš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u16	In most cases, those who have piles of garbage piled up before their own doorstep that would not have been removed by the great flood.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u17	Comrade Janš, please, if you limit yourself to the subject of discussion and do not interfere with statements to a place that someone would take as an insult. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Otherwise, respected colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, or as the former president of the noble Continuity says, why are you so afraid of the referendum? Your fear is completely illogical. I am convinced that you absolutely trust Dr. Nick Toš's public research from a highly credible and, of course, completely independent public opinion research centre at the FDV. The fact that these research is paid by the government does not diminish their independence, rather, you say. In this month's latest survey, Mr Toš found that the government's law on so-called deleted supports as many as 50% of the respondents and is opposed to only 32%. So after Tos, you'll get more than 60% at the referendum. Or maybe you don't trust Mr. Tosh, but maybe you don't pay him for objectively measuring and familiarizing the public with the actual mood? Very interesting. We are convinced that we do not have deleted in Slovenia, but of course we have overly overly overly good officials with double morals, who in this case act against their own citizens. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that a referendum is needed in the circumstances in which you brought us. The authorities cannot rule through the will of the people or in opposition to them, even though some of us have extensive experience in this regard. The outcome of the referendum will show the attitude of citizens not only to this law, but to this issue in general and will be an important guide for the finalization of the so-called system law. We do not accept the thesis, and I think that I can speak in all those who signed this requirement that the citizens of Slovenia, who have achieved Slovenian independence and independence with plebiscite, have made a clear decision for the EU and NATO by direct declaration, are suddenly so immature that they are not able to make a sober decision on the issue of the so-called deleted as explained by the former Prime Minister and many others in the power option. We believe that the referendum should be declared for reasons of constitutional obligation and for these substantive reasons. We believe that Mr Toš's public opinion research has been falsified and that it is a political abuse of the taxpayer's money, which cannot be excused, and we hope that the state's prosecution will deal with it once and for all, and that the unjust and harmful laws will be strongly rejected by the electorate and the electorate. With regard to the implementation of decisions without law, however, we believe that the current position of the Government and of most legal professionals remains the same. Under the Constitution, the State authorities must not issue decisions without law and Cyril Ribič should write anything to explain the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitution is totally indisputable from the reasoning of the Constitutional Court. Even the Constitutional Court is aware of this because, in the same explanation, it is clear and at the same time contradictory with what it says at the outset, it points out that the legislator has the right to pass a decision on to the law in its own right to be bound only by the Constitution. Today, too, we have heard threats that the government will issue decisions without a legal basis, only on the basis of the wishes of the Constitutional Court. I must say that this is completely unrealistic, contrary to the Constitution, the opinion of most legal professions and, of course, fundamentally contrary to current legal practice, and as I have already said, contrary to the government's position so far. Therefore, of course, we do not believe that the executive branch will go into such a degression of the rule of law and at the same time into political adventure. However, if that were to happen, such an attack by the government on its own taxpayers must be further condemned and it must be said that such decisions, without a legal basis, would soon be repealed. If not before the next election, a review of each individual illegal decision will be made. State officials who might be issued without a legal basis will be proposed for criminal proceedings for abuse of power. We firmly believe that the marriage at the referendum will be rejected. This problem must then be addressed in a single law in a way that individual statuses can also be checked individually and that no compensation can be applied at the expense of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u19	We're here because we think differently, we have different views. I think they can be explained in such a way that no one understands them as an insult. I'm asking everyone to take that into account. He next has the floor of his colleague Štemberger, speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia, we are outraged at the procedures, complications and political squabbles of the deleted theme, whose main actors are absurdly all those who adopted the law that caused the injustices years ago, and on these injustices now without shame you are preparing a cheap political point. In our SMS, we wanted to get the opinion of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the technical law and the meaning of the referendum. But you also tricked the Constitutional Court by delaying the broadcast. According to our assessment, the president of the National Assembly is objectively responsible for this, but he is not too proud to admit this error. There are no excuses for the services of the National Assembly here. Similarly, his party colleague, the Minister of the Interior, who did not voluntarily implement the Constitutional Court decision, drafted the so-called Technical Law on Deleted and transferred the ball of responsibility to the National Assembly. Of course, he was assisted by most government parties who are now also moving and raising their hands from the responsibility for all the complications on the subject of deleted. The key reason that the problem could not be solved is once again the arrogant system of LDS rule and the United List with other government parties. This time, too, the government coalition was not prepared to take into account the opposition's position, which was clear: only to ensure individual treatment and thus to end this dark story. This botched the only remaining options, the call for a referendum. The Constitutional Court, despite the delay of the deadline you obviously planned, explained what the Minister should have done more than six months ago, also notes that the outcome of the referendum will not affect the decision of the Constitutional Court. In short, a mistake. However, the Interior Minister has not yet resigned, the President of the National Assembly is still rounding down his functions, the political actors who have cooked the whole story years ago, and now everyone on their side is prolonging the agony and pouring oil on the fire of intolerance and hiding your responsibility behind it. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we demand that those responsible for the situation be held accountable, beginning with the President of the National Assembly, the Minister of Interior, the Minister of the Interior at the time and the entire government until the last bureaucrat, who caused or caused an unconstitutional situation by their actions. In the referendum, citizens, although their decision will not have a significant impact on the decision of the Constitutional Court, will show what kind of rulers they do not want. We just hope that at least someone among them will sober up and accept responsibility. If not, they should be sobered by the citizens in next year's elections. I hope that the citizens of the referendum on 22 February 2004 will reveal all your masks and that you will not destroy the referendum result by saying that it was carried out on a deserted Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u21	Thank you, Igor Stemberger. John Sponik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia. The Law on the Enforcement of the 8th Point of the Constitutional Court is one of those laws which, at the time of adoption, caused disagreements or violent reactions in the public eye, including differing opinions in the profession and numerous controversy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that the National Assembly has not been able to do so much wisdom to reject this law when voting on the veto. If they had done so at that time, they would have avoided the current situation and were already preparing a new law, a law in which they would enforce or lay the groundwork for the application of the Constitutional Court decision. In our view, an agreement could also be reached to involve all parliamentary parties in the drafting of this law. Today, the National Assembly has faced this issue for the fourth time. In discussions at a meeting of the National Assembly or at the working bodies, the Slovenian People's Party's fellow Members have always stressed and acted in the same positions. They stressed and stress today that we are not opposed to the Constitutional Court's decision, but we are opposed to its way of implementing it. The national assembly shall make a sovereign decision on the manner in which the decision of the Constitutional Court is implemented. We believe that it is the power of the constitutional decision to enforce it in a different way. In our opinion, it can be based on the so-called systemic, general law on the residence of foreigners, which could introduce certain solutions under the so-called technical law, while at the same time clearly and clearly setting out the consequences of the decisions issued, and also in the same law clearly define the criteria for not being able to obtain a permanent residence permit in Slovenia for those who acted against Slovenia or against the values obtained through independence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been representing the view from the very beginning that in the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision it is necessary to respect the applicable legislation governing administrative procedures, i.e. the Administrative Procedure Act. Today, we reiterate that cases need to be dealt with individually. We have come to the precise conclusion of the Constitutional Court of 22 December 2003, by which the Constitutional Court rejected the request of the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 90 of the Constitution, is obliged to present a referendum, as it has been satisfied with the provision requiring 30 Members' signatures. We believe that the latter is also reflected in recital 14 of the Constitutional Court decision of 22 December 2003. We believe and advocate that the principles of democracy, which is one of the fundamental principles of the regulation of the Republic of Slovenia, must not be evaluated. The participation of citizens and citizens in decision-making on matters that they deal with in a direct way, i.e. through the referendum, is one of the main elements of democracy. We estimate that it is imperative to involve the co-decision process of all citizens and citizens, as there is no doubt that the present issue is a matter of concern to all of us directly because of its importance. The insistence of the Constitutional Court on the issuance of decisions to so-called legally deleted, which constitutes a grave violation of Article 153 of the Constitution, is, in our opinion, extremely controversial. It must be borne in mind that the Constitution, as the highest hierarchical act, is equal and must be respected by all alike. At the same time, we must not forget that in the Republic of Slovenia all three branches of government are organized and not subordinated because they operate on the basis of mutual control and limitation or so-called brakes and balances. We believe that any attempt to dominate one branch of power over another or any attempt to limit the autonomy of one branch of power by another in the theory and practice of democratic systems is unacceptable. The National Assembly, as a legislative body, must consistently respect and enforce the Constitution and the laws adopted by it itself, since compliance with the legislation in force is a prerequisite for the existence of a rule of law. In the light of the decision referred to in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the adoption of the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum is justified and will also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u23	My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that Slovenia, including the National Assembly and the Government, is not honoured that we have not been able to ensure within a few months, even for citizens and citizens and for most parliamentary parties in the National Assembly, and that the problem has been resolved by the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, who have been deleted, because of the actions committed to them in February 1992. We don't think it's an honor that, instead of finding the power to find acceptable solutions, to manipulate the public, in our own way, in a few fat months, and to bring about a solution to the ever-increasing political differences on these issues, even to collect citizenship signatures, even to each other's disputes, we can say hatred. I don't think it's an honor for us to have applied incorrect estimates to these people. Unfortunately, today's meeting of the National Assembly, as it has begun, allows for the possibility that, I would say, the situation will not be much better. I agree with all those who say that so far we have manipulated politics, parties, including individuals. We manipulated the deleted because we talked about them in a lot of things, and we didn't objectively want to show what happened and what situation they were in today. However, they manipulated citizens and citizens. There have been repeated untruths, lies, which certainly has not helped to resolve the situation. Look, I'm sure it would finally be right to say what happened on 26 February 1992. Or it would be good to say it again. It happened that, at the time of their understanding of the law on foreigners, the 18305 inhabitants of Slovenia at the time were deleted from the residence register without having explicitly legal provision for that purpose. If it was, the Constitutional Court later declared it unconstitutional. This put them in a position when the status of a foreigner had to be reordered. This requirement was not treated in the same way as in the case of foreigners from other countries. Foreigners from other countries maintained their permanent residence and maintained the status of a foreigner, who had to start reordering it without being expressly provided for in the law without receiving any notice without obtaining a decision without this being made public. From here on out, there are differences in the specific situation of these people. Some have managed with perseverance in some years the status of a foreigner and the permanent residence to settle, some have failed and their problem lingers today. The Constitutional Court has several times found such an act to be unconstitutional. Some of us want to respect the constitutional decision, some of us don't. We explain differently, but it is not true that unconstitutionality has not been established several times, many times at this point of deletion, and it is not true that the Constitutional Court would not require this situation to be rectified and rectified. The last decision of April of this year required this once again clear and indisputable from the National Assembly as a legislator. It also requested that all those who are under the 1999 Act, which is intended to regulate the special rights of citizens of the former republics of the SFRJ to regulate their status, be recognised as such also from 25 February 1992 onwards. This 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision was assessed as unacceptable by some parties and was assessed as constituting retroactive use and cannot be implemented in this way. As a result, the Government began to think that in order to ensure certain selectivity in order to ensure individual treatment of all, the law also adopted for the realization of the 8th point. If it were already in April of this year's decision by the Constitutional Court, then in April, if I did not say it in May at the latest, the Ministry of the Interior would have to start issuing decisions. I guess we all know that. The common assessment at the time was that the issue of these decisions could be questionable: the content, because it would be non-selective, was legal because it would not have a legal basis in the law. And it is not true that the opposition that opposes the solutions now advocated that the constitutional decision be implemented only in one part, with regard to the direct enforcement of the 8th point. That's not true. Therefore, it is right to say again, because a family is being created, as if the opposition wanted to make things right. That's not true. Even when the discussion in the law, where we wanted to make the content selectively, and where, according to the Ministry's information from more than 10,000 people who should be directly involved on the basis of the implementation of the 8th point, there have been some over 4,500, because only cases have been used, where all the necessary conditions have been established in the procedures so far for these people to have resided in our country, the Republic of Slovenia, since 26 February, as a rule since December 1990. And today, to claim that this law did not allow individuality and selectivity, is not true, is merely a deception to the public. And that's the right thing to say again. But with this content of the law, not because it would be too selective, but because it gives the rights at all, because it was the main comment of the opposition, no, it is not possible to give rights to deleted persons, and it is right to say so. They were opposed to the injustice that was committed in February 1992 being corrected in any way. This has led to the beginning of the whole story, which continues in many different ways today, and which, I fear, we will not be able to resolve in an appropriate way today. And what else would you like to say about our assessment of our activities? I find it hard to accept that we are using not only arguments and arguments but that we are using falsehoods to insult people with this box just to achieve a goal that we are not even prepared to say very clearly and unequivocally. I don't blame anyone who has a political objective if he's willing to say it clearly and unequivocally, but not to roll it in the most possible and impossible ways. To speak on the one hand about the rule of law, on the other hand, it speaks of the need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court in any way and only reads the part of the decision which corresponds to it. It speaks of the constitutionality over the reasoning of the Constitutional Court, which is certainly true, but it does not say that under our constitutional system of division of power, the Constitutional Court is the one that assesses the constitutionality of decisions of other authorities, including the National Assembly. Whether this is right or wrong, the system of division of power is right. And in this sense, the decision of the Constitutional Court, including the explanation of what is constitutional and what is not. That's the right thing to say. As individuals, we can have a different view on this as politicians and as a national assembly, but in this part we are already concerned with the situation and competences of the constitutional system. It's probably right that we're aware of that. And many more things would be right to say, even what has already been said today, that it is not possible to rule without the will of the people - certainly not - and that the will of the people, expressed at the referendum, is the highest authority. That's true, too. At the same time, however, it is true that all international institutions talking about the exercise of democracy, as well as our Constitutional Court, point out that the exercise of human rights is not decided at the referendum, that the exercise of minority rights is not decided at the referendum, that issues which mean respect for constitutionality and legality are not decided at the referendum, because they are not simply questions because they are the basis of the country, but not questions which we can change by referendum or otherwise. We all know that, too, those who speak differently today speak differently from some of their interests and goals that they do not want to say directly. Now for the final decision. The Constitutional Court did not agree with the requests made by the applicants, including me, that a confirmation referendum on the law on deleted persons was not allowed. It didn't suit us. The request was rejected for formal reasons, due to late requests, stressing that a late request could also be overlooked under certain conditions if, in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, there was a referendum of such a constitutional effect which would be worse than the fact that it overlooked the breach of the deadline. So it was an option, and that's not how it was decided. I don't like this decision. It's just the way it is, and we have to act on it. Besides, it's right or wrong, but as a constitutional court, they said a number of things. At the very least, what is right to say has been said to the referendum's proponents and those who object to solving the problem of deleted persons, that they are not right after the content. Ladies and gentlemen, you are wrong. It reconfirmed that the offence had been committed, reaffirmed that the injustice had to be corrected, once again for the third time unquestionably clearly stated that decisions on the basis of point 8 should be made immediately. It reiterated that we have been late for 8 months by issuing these decisions and for 2 months by adopting the law. It stated that the excuse for the Constitutional Court to act in contravention of its legal obligations in order to implement the Constitutional Court’s decision in a timely manner, there can be no excuse for not doing so in this case, and there is much more to say. And we like it again or not, but it did. Anyone who wishes to understand the current situation needs to know and learn that decisions of a Constitutional Court such as - or to respect or not, and that it is not possible to communicate them at the same time, I would say, by way of saying that we are in favour of respecting the decisions of a Constitutional Court, but the 8th point of the decision will not be implemented. He does not say, we will not execute, but say it in such a twisted way that he can understand it, only whoever wants it, but people will say it, because they were in principle in favour of respecting the Constitutional Court's decision. As soon as the division of power is discussed, of course, such a discussion is possible, but as soon as there is a concrete decision, where a specific obligation is given, a specific task is given, it says, "no, this cannot be done", and then the matter is different. And that I will land on a specific question. We are all angry in the coalition and the opposition against the Minister of the Interior and the government, why he has not issued a decision long ago and why we have come into trouble with two laws, with technical law, with unregulated content, with unconstitutionality and so on. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to a thorough debate today. We believe that the decision of the Constitutional Court, this latter, must also be respected in the part where it indisputably says, immediately implement point 8 and start issuing decisions. Listen to the gentlemen who have spoken from the opposition so far, including the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u25	There is no controversy from the point of view of the Group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u26	No, no, I'm just finding out, there's no controversy. Everyone said, "No, no, no!" At this point, however, this would mean that there is a conflict between the two branches of government and we as legislators have the right to decide for ourselves how to do it. I'm not telling anyone, I'm just telling you that it's incorrect, and our testimony to someone that he's so far been insecure about what he has to do. Today, when it is the third time we have been told what should be done, we feel differently about it. I am pleased to say that, at least in my understanding, as far as I have followed the means of public information, the public, for all those who are ready or who owe something more to read, has made it very clear to both of them what I am now talking about. She made it very clear that, due to the delay of the deadline and for substantive reasons, because it had not already provided the constitutional situation, she had received a message that the call for a referendum should be further discussed and had made it very clear that those who opposed the resolution of the problem to the deleted had not received confirmation in their requests. On the contrary, the Constitutional Court once again told them that the problem must be resolved. And what are the solutions that I or the United List see. In view of the content of the decisions taken, it would be best to cancel the referendum and at the same time to find that the law, such as that of the 8th point, is irrelevant and is not good, to start implementing decisions on the 8th point and to discuss the content of the law together with the opposition in the National Assembly. My colleague Anderlich and I wrote in the media yesterday very kind and kindly, and I would agree, ask if there was any desire and willingness to do so. We have received an answer that no, and that those who have submitted a request for a referendum, in every way, want the referendum to be carried out, despite the fact that the re-constitutional court has made it clear that the decision at the referendum does not also mean a really important substantive decision, that this decision will not be necessary, that this referendum is unnecessary, that the government, in particular the Ministry of Internal Affairs, should start to issue decisions immediately, and that, in fact, by the time the referendum is carried out, even if the law is repealed, it is certainly one of the possibilities that it will not be confirmed that decisions will already be issued at that time, that in fact an important part of what is now the most controversial, already implemented if we do not wish to allow the failure to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, let's be clear in public. At least let's say it. Do not allow the feeling that the implementation of this referendum can have an impact on the resolution of the deleted problem to continue to be created. In that part concerning the direct implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court, it cannot affect us if we wish to respect this decision. If we do not, then you should say: we do not want to respect this part of the decision. That's possible, too. Let's just have the courage and then let's say it directly. This referendum, and I will personally make an effort, because it will certainly be announced today that we will try to say as objectively as possible in the public, that it is only stated because the opposition insists on knowing who these 30 signatories are, that it is being called out because it does not want to solve the problem, but because it wants to prevent the issue of rights from being resolved in an appropriate manner by the 18 000 who have been removed, and I do not claim that the content of the solution is the only ideal and best, but it could be resolved, and that the decision at the referendum, even if the law is rejected, will have no significant consequences, since the Ministry, after the decision of the Constitutional Court, is due to begin to issue its decisions immediately. Once again, we will be in disorderly situations, again explaining our own truth, and above all, we will be manipulating people again. I don't think that's a good decision. Therefore, I must say that I have also considered whether it is right, as a Member, to take responsibility for such a senseless referendum as it has been defined, not me, but the Constitutional Court in its explanation. That's why I'm not surprised that you're so dissatisfied with the opposition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Order! There is no controversy with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u28	by this decision of the Constitutional Court. [[...]] And let [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u29	There is no controversy with other parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u30	I'm done. [[...]] I won't do anything to keep the referendum off the books. However, I must say that I am firmly convinced again that this is a bad path, that this is a bad solution, that even after the referendum, we will not be any closer to solving the problems outlined, because basically what is, we should agree whether we are ready or not to solve the problem. If we're ready, then we should find a way to do this. Not to say that we are ready, but to do everything in the meantime so that we do not even take the first step to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u31	I'm just warning you. There is no controversy between the views of the groups. Mr Celigoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u32	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we maintain our position on this issue, which we have always stressed in the parliamentary treatment and adoption process on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court - we must correct the error that has been made; and, as we now know, whether by law or without it. Of course, the referendum is against us for many reasons. We reject the politicisation of the matter, which has also brought new excitement and even new divisions among citizens this time. The referendum also legally does not change anything and, in addition to the considerable costs, it also places a psychological and political burden on our citizens We are also critical of the incomprehensible delay of the National Assembly in filing a request for a Constitutional Court ruling on the law, which has further complicated the matter. We are confident that Slovenia will in any event, regardless of today's decision, act reasonably, judiciously, justly and will not cause new mistakes or injustices, so not to the affected and not to all citizens of Slovenia. Our Group of Members will also vote in accordance with that position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please, you have the floor, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly has yet to decide on the lack of action, the mirage. Well, that's exactly what we're going to experience today. We decide on a document that we all know in advance will trigger a process that will end without any result. The referendum decision, however it may be, will not affect the status of the deleted by a millimeter. But this mirage will still be adopted and the referendum without result, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party, Novi Slovenije, Slovenian National Party and in the work of the Slovenian People's Party, they decided that they urgently need it. Why is it clear to all of us that in this case it is a referendum without result, a referendum from which no obligation for any of those who decide on the status of deleted persons will be omitted? Since the Constitutional Court has written two important facts on this subject in explanation of its last decision. First of all, that the possible rejection of the law in the referendum will not have any effect on the status quo, since both the State Assembly and the Minister of the Interior are obliged to enforce their almost one year old decision on deleted ones. And then that the question of the meaning of the referendum is exclusively a political and therefore an unfair question. Simply put, this means that any referendum on deleted status will have no effect and, if it persists, it will be a pure political instrumentalisation of the referendum. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we therefore truly expected the initiators of the referendum to withdraw from this initiative after the publication of the Constitutional Court decision. They should also be persuaded by the fact that the Minister of the Interior will have to issue decisions immediately to those who have been deleted, for which the Constitutional Court has requested in paragraph 8 of its decision, if the technical law is not applied immediately. This was again requested by the Constitutional Court in this last decision. Since the technical law provides for a smaller number of beneficiaries to immediately regulate the status than a constitutional decision by which the decisions will be issued by the Home Minister, the initiators of the referendum by insisting on its implementation will achieve exactly the opposite of what they are de facto seeking. Since I intend to request applicants to call for a referendum at this point to read out first-class cynicism, it is appropriate to clarify this position in a little more detail. In a well-known, now almost a year old, the Constitutional Court ordered the Minister of the Interior to issue supplementary decisions to all those who had already been deleted as foreigners the right to permanent residence in Slovenia. The technical law reduced the right to a supplementary decision by transferring and regulating all those who acquired the right of permanent residence on the basis of relief and therefore did not determine whether they had lived continuously in Slovenia during this period. For all others, under the existing legal provisions, it was indisputably necessary to establish in the proceedings that they had resided continuously because this was a condition that they were issued a permanent residence decision as aliens. Therefore, if the technical law is not enforced and, of course, the referendum initiative prevents enforcement, the Minister of the Interior will not be able to take account of the limitations described, as he will not have a legal basis for it. Therefore, it will also have to issue supplementary decisions to all those who have obtained permanent residence by means of relief and have not been determined whether they have lived continuously in Slovenia. The outcome of the referendum initiative and the possible rejection of the technical law at the referendum will therefore be that the supplementary decisions will be justified by a significantly larger number of deleted ones than would have been if the technical law had been enforced. In SDS, New Slovenia, SNS and the work of the Slovenian People's Party, it is difficult to pretend that they do not understand this. This can be clearly understood from the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have also made this very clear in these days, and we have urged them not to say, ask them to withdraw the request for a referendum. Since they were not willing to do so, we believe that this is clear evidence that they do not really care or that only those who have actually lived in Slovenia will be able to come to a permanent residence, which they have been asserting all the time, but only to make convenient use of opportunities to forge political capital. A policy that attempts to do something with words and acts to produce completely opposite effects can only be stupid or cynical. Because to the customers I mentioned earlier, I really don't want to be stupid, so I have to call them cynical. In and outside this Chamber, the initiators of this referendum shed heavy tears because of the huge damages that the technical law was supposed to bring to the deleted and asked the government to present the financial consequences of this law. In the last month, they themselves realized that this fictional story had lost all credibility and was no longer repeated. Unfortunately, however, the government was wrong when it claimed that the law had no direct financial implications. This law will cost this country exactly as much as it will pay for the referendum on it. Paradoxically. These approximately 600 million tolars of financial consequences will be caused by those who have been most disdainful of the costs of this law. And for this amount, what will the candidates of the referendum add to Slovenia? To invite voters and voters to come to the referendum, they circled "for" or "against". But the message from this city: we must be aware that we are not deciding in any way. The referendum will therefore be without legal effects and the number of supplementary decisions issued will be increased In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not want to take responsibility for such a controversial project. We do not want to participate actively in the adoption of something that will cause further outbreaks of intolerance, xenophobia, human rights abuses and the rule of law in Slovenia over the next two months. Again, from this point of view today, it has been stressed that the politicisation of the Constitutional Court means that we are not a legal state, that we do not respect the constitutional court's constitutions and decisions if we like them at some point. We do not want to participate in the call for a disability referendum, which is in the laugh of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and will have no binding consequences. We really want the full responsibility to be assumed by those who, despite all the above arguments, insist on carrying it out. And when in all our views in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have really stressed the desire that the new country of Slovenia live as a legal, democratic state, of course we cannot and must not agree to the fact that the decision of the Constitutional Court in a work we do not like is not binding on us. And this chronology, which we have heard here, is a defence of the rule of law, a defence of our desire to preserve and regulate it as such, but once again from this city to stress that at the time of Slovenia's independence there lived 10%, about 200,000 citizens and citizens of the former SFRJ republics who had registered a permanent residence with us. At the time of independence, these people were given the promise or commitment of political parties that their legal status would deteriorate. We must all, especially those who at that time had the opportunity to participate constructively in the creation of our new young independent country, acknowledge that the promise, this promise to provide for these people, has a significant impact on the international recognition of the new state of Slovenia. The Correct Law on Citizenship of the International Legal Section, when it assessed how States treated these nationals of other nationalities, fully assessed that the Citizenship Act followed these correct legal principles in determining the conditions for admission to a citizen's status. And more than 170 thousand of these citizens who have applied for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia have therefore become citizens and have not deteriorated in accordance with self-sustainment legislation compared with the period when Slovenia was not yet a single country. The conditions for which this was said to have been very mild in the case of the law on foreigners to which I am going to proceed are, of course, mild in the law on citizenship. The only condition was that people had a permanent residence in Slovenia on the day of plebiscite to actually stay here. The only restrictions related to those who actively cooperated against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that about 200 people from this address in our country have never been able to acquire citizenship. It must be said that others who have not decided to enter into the most close relationship with the State, this is to ask for citizenship, not under international law, not under Slovenian law, nor under any law, were not obliged to do so. The individual’s free will is how close the bond enters into a certain country. They had the right to expect that the Aliens Act would therefore offer them conditions such as the political parties had promised during that period and had committed themselves not to make their legal situation worse. Thus, a law on foreigners has been adopted in parallel, with the so-called "multifaceted mild conditions". For those who were citizens of today's Member States of the European Union, the Aliens Act has established an automatic transition to a new country of Slovenia. For these other foreigners, and for these 18,000, he has laid down the terms. He did not provide them with an easy transition to a new country, but with difficult conditions. This is not my personal assessment, this was in 1999, when the Constitutional Court, for this reason, found the unconstitutionality of this act, decided. This is not a matter of our judgment at this time. It could have felt when he passed the law that he was being corrected. But in 1999, the Constitutional Court made it clear - and I will say exactly what it said - that at that time this, not this, but then the legislative body did not have the opportunity to regulate the status in a legal and constitutionally appropriate way, it is possible to assess today's perspective as a misappropriation. The amendment of Metke Mencin, a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, in cooperation with the Members of the United List, meant that in the transitional provisions the transition of 18,000 who did not ask for citizenship to reside in the new country as permanent foreign residents. The majority of Demos did not take this decision, and it began to decide on the basis of the then applicable law, which therefore laid down - what conditions? - easy, easy? No, no, no. The first condition was that an individual had to apply for a temporary residence permit and prove that he was staying in that country for three years. He had to prove that he had a legitimate reason to stay in the new country of Slovenia - this is employment, education, treatment and several other possible conditions or other legitimate reasons. He had to have enough resources to survive, he had to have a valid document proving his identity, a country document or, rather, a former republic of which he was once a citizen and therefore wanted to remain in the new country of Slovenia. He had to prove impunity, both in his own country or in the former republic as here. If these conditions, all five, six conditions that the opposition may consider to be mild, are compared with those that the legislator has put in place for admission to the country's closest relationship, that is to citizenship, even after a purely human judgement, they have been difficult. If not after something else, it is difficult at least in the work, when across the border to the Republic of former Yugoslavia, or Bosnia, to Croatia, to Serbia, to seek a passport because they were allowed to obtain it in the country or the Republic of which they were citizens, while in Slovenia they were staying as foreigners - there they could have received it. And the claim that they had to stay there so that they could become citizens of the new countries after 1991 is of course not true; they were, after the birth of the citizens of the republics, so they were guided in their home books as such, and they did not have to ask for anything at the time of the creation of the new countries, because this is citizenship on a second legal basis, not after a permanent stay. And these conditions were the Constitutional Court in 1999 - we can say, unfortunately only then, but it was then assessed and said that, with such provisions, as I have told you now, under such conditions, the law on foreigners and then the legislator violated two constitutionally protected principles - this is the principle of equality and the protection of trust in law - by not taking into account the important personal circumstances of these people in determining the conditions, this is the permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia prior to independence. Unjustifiablely, the legislator then abandoned the legal arrangements of these persons. However, the Constitutional Court states that the permanent residence and actual residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are the essential circumstances in which the legislator would then have to regulate the transition to a new country, the status of a foreigner as they wished, in a particular way, in the preceding provisions and thus not make their legal situation worse. This is not a matter of our imagination, it was a matter of a decision by the Constitutional Court, so in 1999 the Parliament adopted a law on the regulation of the status of citizens, the successors of the former SFRJ, in order to correct the postwar law on foreigners; therefore to correct it accordingly. But this law was also subject to the Constitutional Court's judgment. And in 2003 we received a ruling from the Constitutional Court, which redefined or repealed certain articles of this law adopted in 1999. Why? Firstly, since the former SFRJ, which was deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations 26.2.1992, does not recognise permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from that date. That the three-month time limit for filing applications was too short for us not to establish in this law properly, described the legal framework for the concept of real life in the Republic of Slovenia and that we did not regulate the definition of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia for those who were given a measure of forced removal of a foreigner from the country on the basis of such difficult conditions. The Constitutional Court has, of course, repeatedly imposed on legislators various compositions that, on the basis of constitutional principles of equality and legal certainty, it is incumbent upon them to re-establish the legal status of the people who actually reside here and have no legal status. This is not a matter of our imagination, it is the decision of the Constitutional Court and not least the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And not only did the Constitutional Court not trust the legislator, but it applied the Institute of Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act, which gives the possibility only to determine the body that executes its decision, the method of enforcement and that is also the explanation. And the Constitutional Court therefore used the so-called Institute of the Temporary Legislator because it expected that the politically heated passions in Parliament would not be able to regain so much unity and correct those injustices that it had only found. Therefore, act as temporary legislator. A justifiable, unjustifiably, the legal profession has divided opinions, however, this issue needs to be addressed. The National Assembly wanted to permanently settle this issue as a legislator, not as a temporary one, but as a permanent legislator, so it began to adopt a law that would be the legal basis for issuing these conclusions, with which they would not give anything to anyone, which it did not, but would only find that when they actually lived in Slovenia, we must legally admit that they were in our country because the relevant legislation caused them a legal void. Individual treatment of these cases - yes, of course, it is not possible to issue a supplementary finding decision unless a file is opened in which this man has his documents, with which he has already proved an uninterrupted actual residence in our country. Because this supplementary decision, for which the Ministry is in charge of issuing it, does not mean anything but a finding in terms of legal recognition to these people in our country. Therefore, the term 'extended' is, of course, appropriate in this part, because we want to regulate their actual stay. Last but not least, the Constitutional Court says, the legislator - that is us, and yet we want this law to be enforced - the legislator should cover the entire period in which the citizens of other republics have not been legally recognised as permanent residence and in fact they have never changed their permanent residence. And we obviously can't do that as a legislator. The law adopted is not in force. The referendum is the one that says the referendum requirement is the one that prevents the enforcement of the regulation. What, in fact, in this case? The Ministry will therefore have to deal with an extremely interesting, legal situation, of course, when it listens to the temporary legislator at the moment, this is the Constitutional Court, which protects human rights also on the basis of the Constitution itself, and on the basis of the provisional legal standard of the decision to be issued to people. They don't have a price, they don't have a price. Human rights don't have a price, they can't be decided at the referendum. The issue of compensation from this city, again on behalf of the LDS Club, points out that the assessment of the financial implications, only in the work it will now have, is 600 million to carry out the referendum, does not judge and has never tried this law, so this law has no financial implications in itself. However, the issue of compensation is an important issue. We are still aware of him in the Group of Members. We are also aware of the simple fact that we cannot regulate this issue constitutionally in a sustainable manner in this law and that the legislator can arrange for the recovery of damage to systematic violations of human rights in a specific law if this is justified by public interest. The financial burden of possible compensation for the country must not be so great that it would be detrimental to its other functions. The benefits of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia must not be jeopardised. When, and if we face numbers that we cannot predict today, because they are closely linked to the individual will of people we do not know about or will apply for compensation and how high they will be, we will limit compensation to protect public benefits in accordance with the principle of proportionality with a specific law. This country has every opportunity to limit compensation to the conditions I have stated. And the LDS will be the first to propose this if this proves necessary. So we regret that in these holiday days we are actually deciding, I reiterate, on an act that means misleading voters and voters to decide, and on nothing, unfortunately, if the referendum is to be announced, will not be decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Good. Thank you very much. I have 15 applications for discussion. Before I give my word to my colleague Jelinčič, let me explain very briefly, because it was, as I understand the requirement, on the issues of certain groups of Members, why it was too late, as decided by the Constitutional Court, an act has been tabled. The late submission of the constitutionality requirement was not a matter of negligence; it was an interpretation of the time limit, which did not receive the majority support in the Constitutional Court; it was an interpretation of the fact that it was an instructional period, not a time-limit. When, after the meeting, after the meeting, I asked not only during the meeting whether there was anything else to be done that night, it was explicitly said that it would not be early enough if we did so the next day. I'm saying it's not an excuse, it's just an explanation, so you'll know that we did what we thought was right. Now I give my colleague Jelinčič my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today we have listened to a whole range of conjectures and a lot of Pilate's washing of hands, especially on the part of the United List of Social Democrats and the Liberal Democracy. On this issue, the question of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia is personally raised in the Slovenian National Party and me. For this is only the first step to ensure that those who opposed the independence of the Republic of Slovenia receive first the status they do not deserve; the second time they will receive large amounts of financial resources and, of course, the third time they will probably require that the Seslovak language change and replace it with Serbo-Croatian, because Mr Krivic is already communicating in the Serbian language in one way or another, he seems ashamed of the Slovenian language. The European Union has said that this is all an internal matter of the Republic of Slovenia. And as the Republic of Slovenia will regulate it, the European Union will accept it. The European Union countries also regulate the status of foreigners, citizens, temporary residents and the like. And at the time of the adoption of the Citizenship Act, the European Union praised the Republic of Slovenia for how well we have done this, even though we have opened the door wide and shared citizenship for exactly half a kilogram of bad beef. And 180 thousand people have accepted this offered hand and are now citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. As a fellow Member said earlier, 18 thousand and some, 18.305 refused to accept these offered hands and today they want from the Republic of Slovenia - what? They want money, mostly. They want papers to travel freely across Europe, to erase all the things that they were running around their former homelands or their homelands during the time they did not live in Slovenia, and not to be punished for doing so, because they want proof with this paper that they were in Slovenia at the time. And legally, the United List and the LDS would provide that. This is also what Mr Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, is supposed to provide, which he would just ask when it comes to money. What was the cost of this technical law, written by the Institute of Public Administration, because the money was not small. And on this question, I hope to get an answer, as well as other questions. In the end, I would also ask Minister Bohinc, a member of the United List of Social Democrats, how much money he spent on various opinions and on the legal projects he ordered outside the Ministry of the Interior, despite the fact that he has a insanely wide cabinet, which is actually expanding and expanding mainly with the members of the United List. As I know, several 10 million Slovenian tolars were about such projects and opinions. After all, I would also ask the Minister how much it costs to have a strategic council for the police, where there are mostly retired police, and also Mr Bavcon, and Mrs Shelihova, who receive abundant meetings once a month. They are mainly members of the United List of Social Democrats in one way or another. I hope that I will get the exact information, not the deception again, and the lies that we're actually used to. Each country itself sets out the conditions under which it will allow foreigners to stay and under which it will not allow them. And open wide to people who said they didn't want to accept the citizenship of an uncivilised country, and on the other hand they'll accept the money and want to collect money from the same country and sit there now on the balcony, in which case, please, where are we! Anywhere in Europe, anywhere in the world that's impossible. In the United States of America, fingerprints were introduced on anyone entering the United States of America. This is democratic, of course in Slovenia this was not democratic. If we were to introduce fingerprints for the citizens of Slovenia, then it would be democratic, but for foreigners - please! And here we are going to some sort of quasi-democracy state. Now we want to give this $18,000 and a few more people everything, including money, instead of imposing criminal sanctions on all those interior ministers who did not expel these illegals from the country, but allowed them to violate a whole range of laws. No one paid taxes, but they served because they had to live. Many ride with good cars, with Mercedes, some even boasted themselves to ride with Mercedes - from where? The state did not pay a tax tolar, while Slovenian citizen must pay the tax. Here the Constitutional Court is prepared to forgive all these people, and even the President of the Constitutional Court said that we could actually miss the deadline that was delayed and extend it, I don't know where, but when Slovenian citizens filed tax returns at the post office, they were closed at 12 or 24 hours in front of the post office and they said, "I'm sorry, you won't turn it in." And they were punished. But that's because they're Slovenian citizens. If the aliens came, we'd open the door for them, give them a red carpet. And I would certainly do that first with the United List of Assistants to Liberal Democracy. And then in the National Assembly we would move and talk about how we need to help them, how we need to take care of human rights, I don't know who everyone is, while the human rights of Slovenian citizens are disappearing and shrinking. And no one's "sexing" for that. Nobody "sucks"! And when we talk about manipulation - what is the greater manipulation when Mr Krivic, with the assistance of the United List of Social Democrats, spent four years in the custody of his opinion, because he was the rapporteur on this matter for four years to change the composition of the Constitutional Court, and then submitted or delivered that opinion because he knew how the Constitutional Court would react. And the pressure on the Constitutional Court has so far been to break the law applicable to citizens just to help those who have been erased. I personally believe that Mr Krivic will make an excellent profit in this matter. Well, as things go, you have to find out. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Mr. Naughty, please, "nomenest omens" anyway. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u37	There's no dispute in the bench. There's no dispute in the bench. No offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u38	If we were a state of law, in this case these illegals would have been expelled long ago because illegals in the country have nothing to do. In particular, they do not work in the country of illegals who act against the country in which they live. But with us, that's tolerated and tolerated. Go look anywhere in the world, if that's okay with you. No, no, no. No! No! It is said that the provisions of the Constitutional Court are being implemented, and colleagues from the United List and the Liberal Democracy have said: this Constitutional Court decision must be implemented immediately. Why? Because it's in the best interest of strangers. For several years they have been awaiting decisions by the Constitutional Court for implementation and enforcement, but those decisions are not relevant to Slovenian citizens and Slovenian citizens for these two parties - for the United List and for the Liberal Democracy, and in the end not for three quarters of the Youth Party. And DeSUS, I'm not even talking about it. Whenever there is something good for Slovenia, for Slovenian citizens and citizens, then you have to "burn" them, you have to give them new taxes, you have to squeeze them here, there, you have to "count them", you have to write them down I don't know any cards, then stickers, stickers and everything. Foreigners - no problem! If they go around doing anything, we'll reward them. Let them shoot at our people during the war of independence - we will apologize to them, we will give them citizenship, we will give them a lot of money to open companies in Slovenia, and probably more tax reliefs. I am sure that Minister Bohinc is already preparing with his colleagues from the United List to prepare a law that will make it easier for these gentlemen to open companies where they may then restart the party that did not live under Mr Bohince - that Party for Yugoslavia, which was the only party at the time of our independence who did not see Slovenia want to go to the modern world, not stay where it is. But maybe there's some resentment or debt from that time - I don't know, I can think of everything. And the more bad I think, the more real it seems to me, the more it's confirmed day after day. It is interesting how those who oppose the referendum advocate and speak out loud about how we should not have a referendum, because it will not be good. However, when they themselves say that a referendum will, if adopted, actually be in favor of these deleted or written down or what they already are. No, I don't know; for whether they lie when they say it, or lie before they explain that the referendum should not be. I think they lie both times and only hurt by losing credibility in Slovenian citizens, because from day to day they show that they do not care about Slovenian misery and the misery of Slovenian citizens, but that they want to help people I do not know who; I do not know who will then award them and give them any recognition. Why? Maybe they'll get a burrito for free - I don't know. Maybe they're getting it now. I don't know if it's ice cream. We need a referendum politically urgently, they said. Of course we need him. Of course, we urgently need it to show Slovenian citizens who are the ones who undermine the essence of them, who are the ones who beat them on the head. Let's see who they are! And let each man prove himself to be, and let him be revealed to be who he is. The United List of Social Democrats in the first place, without which there would be no guilt and these matters, because Krivic himself boasted in the letter [[If any of your colleagues want it, then I can give it to him.]] That if it had not been for Mr Potsch and the United List of Social Democrats, I could not have carried out this case on deleted. And, of course, Mr Bohinc in the back, who immediately took it all together. And when it's said and said that the compensations will be small or no and that the LDS will limit them. Please! When did LDS limit any of these things where money was spent - or the United List? Never, never. We had a Falcon that ate up a few ten billion. We had a SIB that ate up a few ten billion. We had a new Ljubljana bank that ate hundreds and several billion. We had the Iron Levels, "they went to hell." The money's gone again. And now someone's worried about 600 million tolls for this referendum! For so many billions and billions, they don't care, and no one was responsible. Nobody. And as it turns out, no one will, unless after the elections this coordination of forces changes a little bit, but that the new broom will clean up in here and call those responsible for everything together and place them on a sad bench and, of course, condemn them for what they did. A simple calculation, not mathematics, calculation, calculation, calculation, first, second, third grade of primary school says that, given the damages already paid and already invested, Slovenia will cost between 600 and 800 billion tolars. But 600 billion tolars, gentlemen, is a thousand times less than 600 million tolars, but you don't care. No, you move around and say how bad it's gonna be to pay 600 million tolars. I don't know. I don't know what you want. I really don't know what you want. I'm sure you want some ratings that are sometimes a little secret. You may also want to cover up some of the crimes that have happened down there. Perhaps this is to some extent related to the arms trade. That's an opportunity, too. And let someone squeeze someone's neck and tell him if he doesn't, but it will, but something will come out, some documents that will open strange correlations, maybe some banking stuff in Muenchen, some killings and suicides in Germany and something like that. And maybe there will be other political parties in this mess, not just those that some would like to see inside. That's possible, too. I don't know. I think it is necessary that this referendum succeeds and that most Slovenian citizens will be surrounded by "against" because it is important to surround themselves with "against" so that there will be no more deception, that someone will think that it is "for" the referendum and that they will surround "for". It is important to be careful, and I hope that the media will also write this way, not to deceive, of course, on the orders of some gentlemen or editors. And each individual must be considered, examined and weighed. Even those who received the information service in 1994 are essentially negative for obtaining citizenship, but some gentlemen from the political parties mentioned destroyed those papers and then granted them citizenship. That's something you need to look into, too. What is interesting is when the United Nations talks mainly about manipulating, lying, misleading the public, and that these people, the poor, knew nothing. And those are the words from the lawyers' mouth. Lawyers should know that ignorance of laws does not bind guilt. This is one of the basic postulates of law. And yet they are willing to adjust their rights in one way or another according to the current benefits. And these benefits they are supposed to have are, of course, to the detriment of Slovenian citizens and citizens. For there is no need to know anything to a so-called scribe, for after ten years he will require Slovenia to arrange everything for him back and give him plenty of money to live well, and the whole neighborhood around him. A Slovenian citizen who doesn't pay his taxes "flies" back home, takes away what little he has. Not long ago, some farmers over Ivančno Gorica seized one cow, the last cow, because the furla is four handicapped people because one of these was in a car accident and had to pay. No, the court didn't forgive her, they went and took that cow. What can I say and what will Slovenian citizens say about such protection? Someone who has shot at ours, who spits today in the country, that we are an uncivilised country, but doesn't even know the Slovenian language - because that's why Krivic worships him and speaks to him in Serbian-Croatia. And such a man will reign here as a king in Bethinov, of course Minister Bohinc, who would have to fly from this position long ago, will, of course, "hold the bar", and of course his colleagues from the United List and colleagues from Liberal Democracy, and not to forget three quarters from the Young Party and DeSUS, of course. It's interesting how it's actually pronounced here, as someone said, the legal profession on top of each other. We have a legal profession in the Constitutional Court, we have a legal profession in the National Assembly, who are in opposition and at least that's what it looks like. I think it was a short contact here, because I was sure it was the same direction, but it got a little stuck in the Constitutional Court, because the constitutional profession in the National Assembly broke it so much that it did not immediately give the decision that was adopted at the National Assembly, but waited the next day. They were probably agreed that there was nothing wrong with it, as the next day will also be fine, as the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court, Mrs Wedam Lukić, who wrote that the end of the matter should not be valid, but should be extended - of course because it is foreign. And I am sure that this matter is so acute that it is absolutely necessary, in accordance with Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to open and address the issue relating to the work of the National Assembly in this segment and to demand responsibility from the President of the National Assembly - not because he gave too late, but because such a matter must not take place legally. For who can then have confidence in the National Assembly if legal "kikisses" are happening which are "counted" by the legal service of the National Assembly. On the other hand, we have a constitutional court, which again thinks that they are direct God’s deputies on earth and that no one wants them and no one can do anything. It would be high time for the Constitutional Court Act to be adopted, where the competence of the Constitutional Judges is limited, and where it is also determined that they can be called to account and recalled, for these gentlemen are now becoming legislators. They order what the Ministry has to do, they order what the National Assembly has to do. However, let them read the documents, which I still hope are still in force in the Republic of Slovenia, despite the fact that, above all, gentlemen from the United List of Social Democrats and others, you are successfully trying to change, modify and then use them in this modified way and, of course, abuse them. It was said that 18,305 persons were deleted from the residence records. That's not true. This record has only been moved into one other record. For, if you have forgotten, gentlemen from the United List of Social Democrats and others, in the meantime Slovenia has become a new country, independent, independent and sovereign. I told the Sovereign because she has a sovereign right to decide who will stay in her territory and who will not. But no, you're willing to squat, kneel, put your pants to your knees and let anyone do anything to you. It's a hell of a shame that we're ruled by people like that who, on the other hand, do nothing against economic crime, against poverty, against young people having nowhere to go, against drugs, against nothing. Nothing happens, nothing! The bluff itself, the speakers and everything that is done is done to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, the question is the independence of Slovenia. We can confidently expect a political party to raise the question of whether we have made the right choice and let us do something to make this wrong. And the Constitutional Court will, of course, confirm this, because the Constitutional Court has some strange options and usually goes over the edge in its decisions. This decision, too, is very strange and in no way inconsistent with the legal scars that are supposed to apply in the country of Slovenia Because it was said that the technical law transposes enforcement to the system law. But what is the system law? I will read to you the conditions for gentlemen to receive a permanent residence document in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it says that absence must not last more than a year, but this does not apply if a foreigner has left Slovenia for serious and justified reasons for ensuring the survival of himself or family members who do not or did not have their own means of survival. Many of these people went to other republics of the former Yugoslavia and were there for a long time. Almost everyone will be able to say, you know, my home had nothing to live with, I had to go down. And it's true after all. He goes on to say that if a foreigner has left the Republic of Slovenia because of the life crisis he was in, for example, fear of being forcibly removed from the country, because of the unregulated position of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia. A lot of people went out. Of course they'll say, I've been in a life of distress, I didn't know what would happen - and of course it won't be a problem. Come in. If a foreigner has been given a measure of forcible removal of a foreigner under Article 28 of the Aliens Act or Article 50 of the Aliens Act. Unless the enforcement measure has been imposed as a result of the imposition of a foreign penalty, and so on. In short, after two articles of expulsion - we're going to delete it. In short, this law on foreigners, which Europe has praised, will no longer apply, and we will delete two articles. And the fact that we sent them out earlier because they shot at us, we're gonna take them back, apologize. It's best you give them those AKs you're hiding in the basement over there. Give them the ones, and they'll have ammo with them. And go ahead. If the alien has been refused entry into the Republic of Slovenia, even if he has been refused entry, this is not considered to have lasted more than a year; but no - he will come here, forgive me, they have refused me, I should not have been in there, no matter what reason. He could have been a butcher in Bosnia, he could have been, and he'll come here, you've refused me, you have to let me in. And we're gonna let him go, and we're gonna give him the paperwork that he lived here all the time. That he also lived in Slovenia when he was outside. Where can this happen in a normal country? It's not possible. And then, if we go to Article 5 of this law, this system law, which is supposed to be such a crazy restriction, which is a pure lie, because this system law just ensures that everyone, including those who have never lived in Slovenia, can come. I'll explain later. But now we do. The competent authority may refuse to grant a permanent residence permit to a foreigner if he has been convicted of a criminal offence for at least three years. Legally sentenced to imprisonment for at least three years is a very rare case. In fact, even for criminal sanctions that have a range of sentences of three out of fifteen years, they usually do not receive a prison sentence of three years, usually not convicted at all, because ours and the prosecution and the judiciary are deplorable, politicized and because they have a permanent mandate and it is still and we have political judges who judge by political preferences or perhaps even by sexual preferences, and certainly not by law that they should respect. He's saying forward. That the authority may refuse to issue a permanent residence permit if the alien has been legally present on several prison terms of which the total length is more than 5 years. In short, we're opening doors for all criminals. All those who want to escape from the former countries will come to Slovenia, bring a certificate that they were here for a one-time first aid because they ripped off their feet in a car accident and that will be enough. It says here. In short, there are two other options, but to go a little bit further to explain why all these people will be able to obtain permanent residence status. Because, Article 9 - proof of the condition of real life for a full-time foreigner - says this: meeting the condition of real life for a full-year foreigner in Slovenia can be demonstrated mainly by the following evidence of employment in the Republic of Slovenia - is not a problem. It is not a problem, because it is not difficult to obtain an employment certificate in the Republic of Slovenia, but I am surprised that the police do not get involved in this matter, because even some of the ladies or ladies from our foreign embassies have been "bought" these things for money and no one has. Then about treatment in the Republic of Slovenia. Someone, say, in Germany steals a Mercedes, wild across Slovenia, runs into New Town, breaks a leg, takes it to a new town hospital, supplies it, lays it for three days, then passes it on - has confirmation that it is being treated in the Republic of Slovenia, so he will be able to come here. Then on participation in proceedings before administrative and other state authorities in the Republic of Slovenia and local community bodies. For example, someone who, I don't know, has come with a certificate or authorization from someone who may have already died in one of the new countries of the former republics of Yugoslavia, will come with a certificate of his pension to the pension office, will say, excuse me, I am involved in the procedure before the administrative authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, please, I must get status in the Republic of Slovenia. There are still local community bodies in here, it is said, someone who would like to come past and black out a cabin where the skeleton will burn and the local community will tear it down, will say, sorry, I was involved in procedures before the local community authorities, I demand a paper that will keep me in the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, how will she view this Europe? That's great. That's great. All that Europe is trying to get out of here is what we are dragging into Slovenia. Next, about education in the Republic of Slovenia. Education in the Republic of Slovenia had all refugees who had or did not have refugee status. They went to school and, of course - what? - have a certificate. And they'll come here, even when they're adults, they'll say, sorry, that's right, I demand you give me a certificate. And onward, about professional training. This is said, even if we helped a refugee to do what I know, exam for a matter, perhaps even a driver's test, because this is also professional training, this person will have the right to request permanent residence papers here in the Republic of Slovenia. Next, on the education of children in the Republic of Slovenia. That is to say, if young refugees were in school in Slovenia and their parents stayed down, in the new countries from the former republics of Yugoslavia, parents, parents, aunts, uncles and I do not know who else would have the right to come to Slovenia on paper, to have their child, their nephew, grandson or whatever else he had, studied in Slovenia. And beyond, on the acquisition of a working permit abroad for the time of employment of a foreigner abroad. The Slovenian National Party was excited when the Ministry of Labour, again in the hands of the United List of Social Democrats, awarded a huge contingent to work abroad to Bosnian workers. All these gentlemen are going to this clause. They have acquired a work permit abroad for the time of employment of a foreigner abroad. And these people will come here and, of course, their wives as well, children and so on. That's great! And it happens this way, just like it doesn't happen anywhere. Because now it's another matter - the stranger won't even have to prove it. He'll come here and he'll say, you have to give me the papers and ask you to prove to me that I've been here. For in article 11, he states: "When the evidence presented and produced does not show with certainty that the alien actually lives in the Republic of Slovenia, the competent authority is obliged to question the alien prior to the decision to issue a permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia." In this case, they have to question him. He can answer anything, and that must be taken into account. In short, the point is that we will also have to prove to the Slovenians that they were here, apologize to them, and then issue documentation that will give them priority over everyone, not only the advantages of everyone, but also the possibility of demanding compensation. And there's another thing. Article 7 states: "The alien may apply for a permanent residence permit within 5 years of the entry into force of this law in the administrative unit in whose territory he resides." Five years later, gentlemen will be able to think and we will have a strong rush of foreigners from the former countries to Slovenia across the Schengen border and will say, sorry, we want to live in Slovenia, you must enable us under this law, and, of course, our gentlemen who now rule in this loving country will, of course, provide all of this and give them every opportunity. I am ashamed to be a citizen of this country, and I regret little by little that I fought for this country, because it seems that at the time that I turned the AK and shot the invaders against the invaders, I should, apparently, turn to the other side, today I would have had a golden sign of freedom or independence, perhaps even two and perhaps even a bronze monument, sitting next to the Maister. How, ma'am?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u39	There's no dispute in the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Thanks for the suggestion. It seems that we have done wrong by those who fought for Slovenia alone, or that it would be like our colleague Yuri from the United List, who drove JLA's soldiers food and drink, and today is sitting in here having a nice, wonderful time. Isn't bread food, Mr. Yuri?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u41	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u42	And even though it was dry, the poor, the goddesses, had to, wasn't the ammunition underneath the bread maybe? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Mr Pahor, you have warned me, your fellow Member, Mr Yuri, you have not warned me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Again, I beg that there is no dispute in the bench, and that is, of course, what I told him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u46	Well, please. Strange things are happening. Well, and once again I will repeat those questions that I have asked Mr Bohinc, because it is not said that Mr Krivic may not have already prepared these questions, which is usually a lot of photocopying in the National Assembly at the expense of the National Assembly and, of course, at the expense of the taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia. All those questions, namely, how much was the technical law required of the Institute or orders at the Institute of Public Administration, how much did Mr Bohinc spend on the various opinions and legal projects ordered outside the Ministry of the Interior and how much did it cost the Strategic Council for the Police? I would like this data for 2002 and 2003. For it is very wide and very easy to work for those citizens who are willing to pay taxes. To those citizens who want to destroy Slovenia, who want to destroy it, we will apologize and give them money. And the Slovenian National Party has drafted a certain amendment to this so-called - as has already been said - system law; no amendment has been adopted. Of course not, because it is necessary to help strangers, poor poor people! We need to destroy Slovenia! I'm not gonna talk about this nonsense anymore, it can't be that big of a nonsense, it can't be. In my opinion, it is intentional destruction of the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. On purpose! How else could I explain all this nonsense that we hear here and all this weeping roaring over the injustices that some foreigners are up to? If anyone is in pain, colleagues from the United List of Social Democrats, if your salaries are too high, share them among these people, because I know you won't give the Slovenians, and you won't give the Slovenian citizens anything. I know you don't. Well, at least give it to those if you think so. I don't know, maybe we should just turn to a constitutional court that definitely needs to be recast, and I think we should get a river through the Constitutional Court. What a larger river, such as Ljubljanica, greater than Drava, might need the river that now swims or swims in the Strel, which South American word to float away many things that would certainly swim on top. For, as is known, the things that are hollow are floating in the water. The Constitutional Court takes on strange rights, strange rights and generally is a constitutional court with its legislative tendencies - I don't know what it wants to become. Or are there people in this court who were too deep in the former regime and still would still somehow like some central committee outside this house that determined what to do with the creature's house? I don't know! Of course, the Slovenian judiciary is very helpful with the prosecution, which, of course, punishes those who are wrong. But those who are true, or who are yours, I will not say ours, because ours shall be given to them by their heads, but because they are yours, nothing shall happen to them. Very interesting. It is said that the Constitutional Court has demanded that the Ministry of the Interior be required to start issuing decisions. It's not true at all! This can only be demanded by the National Assembly, not by the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court may judge and send a decision to the National Assembly by which it has found a violation of the Constitution here and here. And the National Assembly with a legislative proposal, which only when adopted, in fact obliges the Ministry of the Interior to do anything. No, we're going our own way. By their own way, where services are done to some foreigners who have spat on Slovenia, they have shot at Slovenia, and I will not say anywhere else. And you're not prepared to wonder who's been sitting where, who's been where, what's been doing, but you're rather writing in the bill that there's really no need for anyone to come here, a stranger will be accepted. It is interesting that Mr Rad Bohinec, a member of the United List of Social Democrats and a former spokesman of the Party for Yugoslavia, does not care; he went out; as I know, he does not smoke that he should necessarily go on a cigarette to calm his nerves. That's true. He doesn't care. This is said to be a party for the United List of Social Democrats, but they do not care what happens to Slovenian citizens and citizens. Sadly, for so many years and so many years, they lied to the electorate that it was for their own good and that they would help them and so on. I don't know what else to say. I'd have had enough, but there'll be a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Look, I've got 16 more applications, so I'll read them in a row, just like please, my fellow schoolboy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u48	I'm going to sign myself up for the word as probably the 17th or whatever. But, President, I'm protesting all these blasphemous and chauvinistic words. It was not possible before when it came to the performances of parliamentary groups, but when it came to our fellow Member's performance, it could. You didn't do it; I think we should talk about 18,000 people in this way because of all of us who might be embarrassed. Since you have not done so, I would ask you if you could turn this hall around for a few minutes so that we can continue in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u49	I have already said this, Comrade Školč, at the performance of one of the previous Members, and I repeat this, that everyone is obliged to abstain from words that someone would understand as an insult. I guess I don't have to do this all over again. There are 90 responsible people elected here, and I don't think it's necessary to repeat this over and over again in order to take this into account. My friend Yuri now has the floor. Please, please, buddy Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u50	If I may say so. When I wanted to apply for the debate, I asked my colleague Grims, a professional associate, to apply for me, and Mrs Veliščkova said she was not collecting applications. When Mr. Yuri went up after a while, a few minutes after me, the application gatherings began. I want to know how things work now. Is there any special form that is allowed only to some, or how is it now? I signed up on my own on time, my application wasn't taken into account, and now I've seen that I'm in the sixth place, which doesn't bother me, but it shows how you work. You wouldn't accept my applications if you did that with your hands up. When Mr Juri went up, he raised his hands, of course, he made an effort and his application was accepted. That's right, but I'm just pointing out the discrimination you're committing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u51	If that was the case, of course I'll apologize. The secretary general and I are collecting applications in the order they come in. There is no speech about discrimination between Members. You all come in line and as soon as I get my application, I'll read it and invite my colleague to the floor. My friend Yuri has the floor. He's got his buddy Rokavec, Kangler, Petan, Brac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u52	Thank you, President. If I make a little joke, I may have been enrolled among the speakers, because I once gave someone a couple baskets of bread, and unlike those, I mean my colleague, Jelinčič, who pour poison on everything, and everyone. Thank God it's a word poison, or everyone in this room would have died. Financial implications. There has been a lot of talk about this in all stages of defining this law, and we will still be deciding today on the call for a referendum. We don't know how much they'll be or will be, what will be the sums of possible damages. I suppose only as much as the state will be able to pay. However, there will certainly be an additional cost of the referendum, which is an additional financial consequence. I will not object to the decision alone to merely contribute to one more unconstitutionality after we have already fallen into one of the deadlines set by the Constitutional Court for the issue of decisions. But I will also not support this decision, because the referendum is unnecessary because the referendum is pointless, because it is an unnecessary cost and, in particular, a propaganda platform of the right and an opportunity for pure populism, for additional speech, hatred and even for additional tasteless demagogies, we have heard a few examples today that show where we are going, and of course a new opportunity for further neglect of nationalism and xenophobia. As far as the rating between our Member States and EU accessions is concerned, among the 25 members of the new enlarged Europe, when it comes to tolerance or intolerance, Slovenia is not the best traveller. If we continue on this path, along the path of such discussions as my predecessor's debate and some others in the central hall, we will probably fall to the last place from the back of the city, and we will cross Hungary as well. Why it is unnecessary and pointless, we have heard - because after the latest communication sent to us by the Constitutional Court, and also after the message received in the introduction by the Ministry itself, the issue of decisions to implement the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision by the Ministry will already be brought to light. Things are about to start happening. So far, we have calculated that this law will be necessary for us to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. Once again, we have received a judgment saying that this law is not necessary for decisions to be made immediately. From this title, this referendum is unnecessary and unnecessary. But it is right that people know that they will vote on something that will legally be useless. And let them know that this will be an extremely well-paid campaign on the right hand side of all taxpayers. I therefore understand somehow the insistence of the initiators to call for a referendum that, despite the message we have received from the Constitutional Court, they will not withdraw their signatures. However, if you will allow me, colleagues and colleagues, I am concerned about the assessments we have heard from the mouth of the speakers, and I quote, "the irregularity of power and the constitutional court" which is to act against the will of the people. At my own time, when I had my own comments on the Constitutional Court's assessments, I never allowed myself to declare that we have an abnormal constitutional court, and I am very concerned. Just as I am concerned about calls for a public lynching of individuals in this country with names and surnames, according to some of their alleged sins. So I wonder where all this is going. Or it leads to some new year 2004, which will be very varied, but certainly not overly productive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u53	My friend Rokavec has a word now. Comrade Rokavec, you are also an amendment to the 4th paragraph of the decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, Mr Minister and the rest of you are present! In the case of the so-called law on deleted persons, all three branches of government failed to pass. This may be more or less, if we are honest or not, more than certainly a fact. The fact is that the Government has instigated a solution to this issue by two laws in an inappropriate way, which does not regulate the determination of individual cases, is said to be a selective approach, and also given the fact that there are no clearly defined financial consequences for the resolution of this issue, which was addressed to the National Assembly by the Constitutional Court by its decision. The National Assembly also passed the exam because it did not accept the procrastinal veto of the State Council. Here I believe that the greater responsibility of the majority, who at the time confirmed the law, is because she did not try to listen to the arguments that we had, to the arguments that the legal profession had also pointed to in order to avoid the costs of this referendum. In this way, we could already be in the process of creating a new concept of law that would regulate the whole decision in one segment. Second, the leadership of the National Assembly, who submitted a request too late to assess the constitutionality of the referendum question to the Constitutional Court. Also the Constitutional Court. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has identified the question of such a solution to the question of resolving the status of so-called deleted in a very strange way in its decision, and in particular the interpretation of this decision. Some members of this Eminent Authority of the third branch of government in the country have given different interpretations of how they picture the full implementation of the decision. The President of the Constitutional Court, on the one hand, has also explained that direct implementation of the Constitutional Court decision is possible, but the Constitutional Court has not clearly defined in what way. I also believe that the Constitutional Court has gone far too far with regard to Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act, which clearly speaks, paragraph 2 to determine, if necessary, the constitutional court to which the authority must enforce the decision and in what way. The decision must be reasoned. And the second question is how the Constitutional Court, by its ambiguity, also interpreted the last Constitutional Court decision when it examined constitutionality or the referendum question mentioned. In fact, there are a lot of ambiguities about their explanation in the 23rd and 24th paragraphs. On the one hand, it speaks of the need to issue decisions and that the Constitutional Court expects them and, on the other hand, says that the referendum is not unconstitutional. Two very contradictory views, so I believe that at this time, when all three branches of authority have fallen on this exam, the only one who is sovereign, is a people who should decide who should tell the legislator, the government and the constitutional court what he feels about resolving this open issue in society. On this occasion, I would also like to touch on some of the statements already made here today in the assembly: the referendum is unnecessary, and decisions will also be made immediately to the beneficiaries on the basis of the latest decisions of the Constitutional Court. There's power of ambiguity here, too. In last night's Reflections, Dr. Bulgarian's Secretary of State made two clear thesis. First. The government has done its part; there has been a clear dispute between the National Assembly and the Constitutional Court. On the question whether the Ministry of the Interior would issue decisions or not in this situation, the answer was that it would be very questionable if the outcome of the referendum would be further prejudged at this stage. So, something very serious has happened between last night's Reflections and today's statements by both the representatives of the United Nations and the Liberal Democracy and also by the Minister, where another was said, to start implementing the decisions. So, at this point, when we can clearly find out that all three branches of government have failed on the exam, two political parties and the minister decide, we will cut and issue decisions here and also prejudge the outcome of the referendum because they all failed on the exam. I'm saying that at this point, he's the only sovereign who can decide, just the people. Everything else, I think, will go to a great foregone conclusion, which is likely to have greater consequences in the future than allowing the people to judge this issue. Come in now. Thus yesterday, even in last night's Reflections, the legal profession made clear its conclusion, namely to eminent lawyers, that in this case the Constitutional Court went too far to go in the direction where it became an active legislator. Here I am joining all those colleagues who have already spoken about the need to consider and define more clearly this definition and the provision in the Constitutional Court Act. If you allow me, I will quote again the reasons why the legal profession says it is impossible for the Constitutional Court to implement the decision directly. In accordance with Article 153(4) of the Constitution, decisions of administrative authorities, such as the Ministry of the Interior in this case, must be based on the law or the law. I believe that it would be constitutionally correct for a Constitutional Court decision to constitute a direct basis for the issuance of administrative decisions, as this is also not in line with the principle of the division of power, as stated in Article 3 of the Constitution. In other words, the 8th point is also not procedurally feasible. The supplementary decision shall be issued in accordance with Article 220 of the General Administrative Procedure Act in the event that the administrative authority has not decided in the procedure on all matters which have been the subject of the procedure. However, in the proceedings referred to in paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision, the Authority has already decided on all the issues which were the subject of the proceedings at the time. In addition, in a procedure initiated at the request of the party, these procedures, referred to in point 8, cannot be decided by a supplementary decision on something which was not the subject of the request of the party and which did not subsequently consent to this. Such a decision would be null and void under Article 280, paragraph 4, of the Administrative Procedure Act. The supplementary decision can only be issued on the basis of the laws and regulations in force at the time of the main decision’s entry into force, since the effect of the repeal cannot be regarded as retroactive, i.e. the legal relationship in which the decision was repealed. The different conduct of the administrative authorities would also be inconsistent with the principle of jurisdiction, as stated by the 158th Member of the Constitution. The Ministry of the Interior cannot issue supplementary decisions, as laid down in point 8 of the Constitutional Court decision. The basis for such decisions, which would not be complementary, but which, as provided for by law, are the finding decisions, although issued on an official basis, is only a new law. On the basis of all of this, I believe that we would be in a highly questionable constitutional position if, at the time of the call for a referendum, the Ministry of the Interior began to issue decisions. I think we need to stop the horses here. It takes wisdom here to leave the people to say their own words to the question raised. One more thing: The proposal for a referendum question is put or the referendum decision is put forward on Sunday, 22 February. It's a desert week, by the calendar. I propose, also in accordance with the procedure with the Rules of Procedure, that we decide on a more appropriate date. I'm making an alternative suggestion that this is February 15th. So, a week earlier. Citizens know well what the referendum question is, they do not need so much time, they are familiar, we can trust them, and I am sure that we have to give them the best possible day to make their decision at the referendum. Let me get this straight. I believe that, on the basis of the referendum, a new concept of systemic resolution of this issue must be drawn up, which will, of course, cover the Constitutional Court's decision and, above all, be based on the expressed will of the people in the referendum. Let us make this will possible and not make a forerunner to try to abuse power at all costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will also try to limit the debate to the shortest possible period of time and only touch on some points which, in presenting the opinions of the groups and in individual performances, have stabbed me in some way, and I did not intend to be involved in the debate myself. In view of the opinions that have been made, given that some of us have signed, those who have signed 30 signatures that we have requested a call for a subsequent legislative referendum, have pointed to the fact that it is not an honor for us to have a referendum at the door, that we who are not looking for a solution are the ones who manipulate the public, that we are the ones who are causing hatred between Slovenians and Slovenian citizens and those foreigners who have not acquired citizenship in the Republic of Slovenia, and we are the ones who give incorrect assessments to people, to all the people who live in the Republic of Slovenia. With all my responsibility, I say it's not true, and the truth is somewhere else. I am sorry, once again, I regret that we have not found so much political wisdom in this national assembly in this third term that we can solve this problem differently than we are solving it today. Thus, we could reasonably expect the United Charter and the Liberal Democracy to gather 30 signatures or the number of citizens they will require, but we were not able to resolve this compromise on some political issues and some professional issues in the debate itself in Parliament, in the debate of the Council of State, in the very vote of veto on this law, in order to resolve this problem in a different way than we are solving it today. More lawyers, more opinions, more knowledge. I myself took a personal look at some of the debates by the statesman of saints, especially in the debate of a well-known lawyer who is also a member of the Council of State, Mr Ilc. I must say that his opinion has convinced me and I take him as an expert, not as a policy, that there are open professional issues in this law. I was also taught at the Department of Constitutional Affairs of one of the Faculty of Law in the Republic of Slovenia, where they made it clear to me that my conduct when I signed was the right thing to do. And today, to argue and point to someone who is responsible for having a referendum at our door, I think it's too much for the future. Look, dear colleagues and colleagues, we have twice had such an important substantive theme, perhaps not so important. For the first time, we met with artificial fertilization, there was no compromise to amend the provisions of the law and to prevent a referendum, and for the second time there was no compromise, nor political, on the political issue of trade, whether trade should be opened on Sunday or not. We could have solved those problems differently than we did at the referendum. Today we are on exactly the same issue. When someone insinuates that there is no need for compromise, there is no need to seek compromise, it is necessary to go through all the others who think otherwise in this national assembly as a bulldozer, although the majority can reasonably expect 30 signatures to be collected and there will be a request for a referendum. I think that this is not the way, and I would be very happy that such a way would no longer be served in the future and that there would also be political compromises on the professional issues that are open to various subjects. The price of the referendum is not as high as the price of the reputation of this house as the price of the National Assembly. The fact that we miss the deadline for the Constitutional Court to assess whether the initiative is in accordance with the Constitution or not is inadmissible. Such a stain that fell on this house was very personal to me and the reputation of Members, Members and members of the national assembly before the Slovenian and all the world public is being undermined. I also expect the President of the National Assembly to draw to himself and to us all the consequences of this meeting of the National Assembly, so that those who do not want to take responsibility - in the first place, I think, first of all, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly - will also be responsible for their actions. Otherwise, the President of the National Assembly will have to take full responsibility for himself. That's unacceptable. Some Members, fellow Members of Parliament, have thus touched the work of the Constitutional Court and individual Constitutional Judges. As a Member, I will not proceed to the content of the work of the Constitutional Court. I have also stated several times that I trust the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, whether it is the majority of the left or right. As a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I would like the Constitutional Court to be balanced, both left and right, as it is in all democratic countries in the world, no matter who is in power. However, in doing so, I must point out that there are double criteria. If I only remember, with all due respect to the doctor of science and the lawyer, Mr Ribičič, the former policy, there was no problem, no dispute by the proposaler and all those who supported him as a constitutional judge, that he was a former politician or something else I could list, and with all due respect for him, I will not mention it. However, when another fellow Member from the right appeared for a Constitutional Judge, the biggest problem was that he was sitting in the National Assembly as a Member. These are double criteria. And I have concerns about these things. In deciding the Constitutional Judges, I say once again that I trust them. I'm sorry it was us who missed that deadline, and someone will be responsible. If not, the president will take over. And also some Members have already drawn attention to the difficulties we have in our work in working in the Commissions through a number of discussions on various topics in the National Assembly. We're warning you, but no one listens to this. I am also almost certain that no one will listen or hear these demands for responsibility. In our house, everything can happen on average. It is a great shame, however, that we are Members, including the President of the National Assembly, who is a Member at the same time, that those archives and strictly confidential documents are not accessible to them and are accessible to the Secretary-General. They're inaccessible to us, and she has access. It's a topic that belongs somewhere else, but that's because there's no responsibility in our house. The next question that comes to me is from the protection of personal data. It's a shame the Minister of the Interior isn't here to be heard. Who and when and in what way did he hand over the list of all deleted societies? Who gave them a list of all deleted? Someone from the Ministry of the Interior gave them a list of all deleted in the Republic of Slovenia. In what way? Personal data protection. Last week I met a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who acquired citizenship after 1991. He came to me on the street, in Gososka Street, Maribor, and spoke to me. I would like to emphasise, my fellow Members and colleagues. All who had an interest after June 1991 had the opportunity to resolve and regulate their status. And these are strong over 100,000. And that someone in this house today will say that we are running nationalism, chauvinism, hatred for some is a pure lie. Strongly over 100,000 foreigners or foreign persons or other nationalities, with the exception of Slovenians, neighbouring or former Yugoslav Republics, have settled their status and are fully equal citizens like us. Even in this national assembly, those with a different nationality are no less valuable, and the same respect is worth the rest of them. No one can claim that we are pursuing what some have stressed in the debates. This gentleman, who addressed me, said that one of the lists that had been deleted in 1991 had also joined him, and he said it was a bad idea not to mention what had happened to him, that he had regulated his status in this way, because he believed in the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which was then established and came to life. Because he believed, that's why he took care of this status. He's not the only one who's stronger than 100,000 people. Many of these 18,000 were wronged. And injustice needs to be corrected. The constitutional decision will remain, the constitutional decision must be respected and respected. However, some things need to be defined differently in the provisions of the law, as defined in this law. I also expect the Minister of the Interior to prepare appropriate solutions after the referendum, which will be more or less adopted by a large majority in the National Assembly. I support this decision myself, and I am sure that today there is no other way for us to do so than to support this decision and to call a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! My colleagues have already said a lot, and they will. I could only warn you of one specific matter in this stunt. I'd start with responsibility. The fact that the National Assembly is running late for a request in the Constitutional Court is that we can find that the Constitutional Court is 50 metres away from us, that is to say, a minute before midnight, would have taken the case there and the matter would have been fine. It's unacceptable for the National Assembly to miss a deadline. I would say that the National Assembly is an institution that has also used external experts as much as necessary and that, in consultation, it is likely that other opinions could be forwarded in consultation as well as in terms of whether it is lax or instructural. If there is no uniform opinion, then the solution is perfectly clear. Let's stick to 24 hours, and it's a good thing. And in no case can the matter be delayed and the matter stands. In addition, I am asked a question, not just to me, if legal experts do not matter whether they are in the house outside, they cannot come together around the deadline, but how they can only find a common position on substantive matters and find a common position if there is no agreement at the time of the deadline. And we're cutting through the arm. People of God, I don't know. I don't know how to comment on that. Any word he said would be too sweet. It just doesn't work. What kind of legal expertise do we have, or what legal experts do we have? Maybe we don't have the right ones. Maybe we're choosing them by political definition. But anyway, I'm not gonna go there. Let everyone think about it. The fact is that what happened was a real discredit. This is a discreditation of the legal profession, this is a mockery of this profession so that I will not talk about any political impact on the professional approach of the Constitutional Court. I'd rather not. On the other hand, I find it incorrect if the National Assembly is in such a way that it missed the deadline, covered the back of the Constitutional Court, or pulled it out of the Shelbytics, which does not seem right for the National Assembly to be the one. I'm afraid there's some truth in this, too, that we didn't do that 50 meters because we're hiding someone's back. But that's for thought. That's not my point. The fact is that the opinion of legal experts, I will now start to use "experts" in narrations, because otherwise I can't much longer if they don't get together at the time, strangely, but well. Perhaps that is why, however, says the opinion expressed in the National Assembly: We will fully support the opinion of the legislature of our National Assembly in the Liberal Democracy Club. Not only is it extremely well-prepared, but I can, according to the content, assess that we are fully following the implementation of our Club of Members. I can ask myself who has to follow either the politics of politics or the politics of politics, and I can conclude with that. I don't want to sell out anymore. I think this statement is one that tells me a lot about who has to follow and why certain strange decisions are made and, of course, falls needlessly also in the legal profession. I don't think that's right and it's harmful. The next thing I'd like to point out is the cost. Clearly, the costs have now become the only argument for advocates of this law and for such a solution. For according to the earring which you have received, there is no other than you. The fact that the referendum is the most democratic form of expression of human will is direct, it probably makes no sense to lose words. However, it is also necessary to enable it to be implemented. Otherwise, it's a dead letter on paper. Of course, it is 600 million, which is supposed to cost this referendum, but the distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the SIB Bank have cost five referendums, and we have not done anything yet. Someone left the complaint in the drawer for a year. Five referendums, no problem, no worries. But when it comes to direct expression of human will, that is the problem. Last but not least, 600 million means only 10 claims deleted. What they were saying. They have publicly said that 200, 300,000 euros will be demanded. I didn't make it up. I'm just mediating what they said. That means ten applications, nothing more. That's not a problem, a few thousand, 600 million, but when there's 10 applications, it's already a problem. That's what you're saying. Something's not right here. In addition, respected colleagues and colleagues, after some quick calculations, would be able to implement or comply with this law, given that, on the basis of this, damages can then be applied, we have calculated 300, 400, 500, 600, and 800 billion. It's a thousand times more than a referendum. And there's another comparison if you want. 600 million means exactly 1,000 tolars per family. And 600 billion means a million per Slovenian family. And I ask you: How capable is our Slovenian family, what is the cost that can be borne? Why did I say that? What I'm about to tell you now is from circles near the government. I don't know how to say whether they're leaking or even coming hints that it's no coincidence that, along with this deleted law, which is supposed to cost so much and so many billions, as a result of course, we understand that there will be no misinterpretation, there has also been, and the law has not yet, but it is said how the government will increase taxes on all powerful movements and properties. It is said that Slovenian taxpayers will pay from whatever is possible and impossible. Yeah, sure. And that's what I'm trying to say, what happens in government circles, the country is going to have to get money from somewhere for these eraseds. They call it deleted. It's just other taxes. The law itself will not produce new funds, but the state will have to get somewhere. New taxes, I'm sorry. If it sounds there, there's probably some fire in that big smoke. And this referendum is necessary for those who have prepared such a solution to the Constitutional Court's decision - I am talking about a solution that should resolve the Constitutional Court's decision - to see that people are thinking differently somehow. That this solution is not the right one and that is why this referendum is needed. This type of rescue, as proposed, is a mockery from Slovenia, is a mockery from Slovenian citizens and, as I have already mentioned, is also a mockery of the rule of law. This referendum is also necessary, and as soon as possible, so that no one else will be delayed, so that some things in Slovenia can be resolved retroactively, backwards. As far as I know, this case is a taboo, there's no way it's going back. But obviously, that's how we want to save Slovenia. However, if I am properly informed, there is also an analogy in the legal profession. So if one thing is about retroactivity, why shouldn't it apply to everyone? It's a forward model. So, we can save every single thing back then. And that is why such a solution, such a law as was proposed, is harmful, unnecessary - no, harmful, I think is still the best diction of this. And it just doesn't work. And the prevention of the referendum is also a mockery, I think the third article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the power of the people, and all that has to do with it. That's what you're saying. It can't be a dead letter on paper, but it has to be possible. The referendum should therefore be carried out as soon as possible. But I've already mentioned the reasons. I will therefore, of course, support such a proposal for a referendum to be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Yes, because I'm actually surprised that I got the word, because when I signed up for the word, they said I couldn't sign up for the word. After Mr Yuri applied for the floor, it was possible to apply for the floor. When Mrs Veliščkova and I were cleaning up earlier, it became clear that this was true - that there were even two lists. I don't know why. In fact, I'm not surprised anymore because - Madam Vice President doesn't know what wasn't there - I looked myself up when I was up there, when I went to see where I was on the list, I saw that my name was specifically written, it says, I have some special status and I thank you for it - yes, written down, true colleague Pukšič, who already knows. Today we are talking about a situation that is a reflection of confusion, in fact confusion in the ruling coalition or in the majority of the ruling coalition, better said, more precisely. What's this all about? Here we listen to the Treaties of Mr Porc and Mrs Krebs on the rule of law, respect for the rule of law, respect for the laws and, of course, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. May I remind you of only one detail at the beginning of this debate, which, of course, was published in all the media, where it was said that the 8th point of the Constitutional Court could not be used directly. Article 153 of the Constitution was cited. This is what the consultant in the National Assembly, Mr Cerar, has said, has shown the expertise he has given to Mr Bohinc. The result of these legal decisions - they seem to be correct, correct - was a technical law, as we call it. But now we're on a more important issue. If this is true, as Mr Potrč and Mr Bohinc said, and everyone else, why then the Ministry of the Interior did not go into direct application of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. How is it that the government has decided to do otherwise if the constitutional decision makes it absolutely clear that immediate implementation is necessary? It's an original sin. You've made up your mind about this law. I think you're doing the right thing. Because the Constitutional Court made a clear mistake here. Where should I go now, I appeal to the hundredth constitutional decision or to demand a constitutional review, and I refer to Article 153 of the Constitution. Who should I go to? To the Constitutional Court and I say, I appeal against you. I can't. There's no more existence. To go back. Why did the government decide to do that? Because it was the political will of the majority, as has been said today. Mr. Potts talked about it, that's how they assessed it in the government. And an important argument. It was said that if Mr Bohinc were to take such a decision directly, it would all fall to him. Yeah, what does that actually mean that everything would fall on him? If the Constitutional Court demands that this be done, why not? And when we protest against something, you tell us we don't respect the rule of law. Yeah, who crossed the rubicon first? Who made the first mistake and didn't respect it? And why is that? Because then everything would fall on Mr Bohinc, the Minister of the Interior. So that's why you went to a special marriage. We imagine the decision of the Constitutional Court, which Mr Ptrč raises in heaven, on the one hand, falls due to individual interests, is a claim to the interests of Mr Bohinc, who is, of course, a member of the United List. This is called the creative application of law in Slovenia. This is called within the meaning of the provisions. Listen, I've been listening to this for 30 years in the previous country. What the law says doesn't matter, it has to be used in the spirit. And I am hearing this again today from Mr Potsch and, of course, from Mrs Krebs. In the past, the Law School has raised such a staff who have such a pattern of thinking and cannot jump out of it. And here's the problem. So, what you're reading to the opposition, you're doing first. And that's obvious. Fortunately, it's all recorded and it's going to be left to the craftsmen. I hope the students of law too will have something to do with the fact that I don't talk about professors. You're talking about the unconstitutional consequences. What are these unconstitutional consequences? Tell me what the unconstitutional consequences are. The anti- constitutional consequences arose on 16 October when the deadline for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision expired. At that time, however, there were unconstitutional consequences because the decision was not respected. The anti-constitutional consequences have been happening for a long time. I think we have correctly counted as regards the 12 decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning Slovenians and Slovenes, both because both are affected by these income and many other matters. Don't make me say it all over again. But that's not what you're interested in, that's unconstitutional, and I don't know what the consequences are. You're talking about human rights. Show me in today's constitution what human rights you have in mind which human rights are involved. Is the right to citizenship a human right? Please, of course not. Is the right to permanent residence a human right? Not at all. Read the Constitution again, several times. Show me what human rights you have in mind. The Constitution of a new Europe, which is now in one longer process, also speaks extensively of human rights. There is not a word in this constitution about such types of rights as the right to citizenship, or I do not know what you think. The state gives or does not give citizenship. And the state doesn't have to explain why. It's the same with a permanent residence. And then what happens? When you missed the deadline when you discussed the opinion that we forwarded to the Constitutional Court, because it was asked of us as a candidate, the Internal Policy Committee re-adopted everything it had already said. Also about the hand. So you didn't make the wrong decision once, but repeatedly. Then the Constitutional Court decides to dismiss and explain the expulsion, which, of course, is very correct, etc. But there are still a few points, paragraphs of explanation, in addition to the explanation, which has nothing to do with the saying. The decision of the Constitutional Court, the decision, may be read only or a sentence shall concern expulsion only, and in this regard only the text shall be meroded. However, what I think of the Constitutional Court in this regard is the referendums and any other possible issues, but, of course, another issue that does not belong in such constitutional matter, in such a decision, in such a decision of the Constitutional Court. This is a scandal, and this is something the Constitutional Court cannot afford. The subject of this Decision is merely rejection, not whether the referendum is meaningful or not. This proves that the Constitutional Court is moving from legal to political, that it allows itself to comment on and give opinions on matters, although it has nothing to do with the decision it issues. And you're talking about the state of law. In particular, the President will then repeat in his separate opinion. But she can't be offended because it's a separate opinion and so on. But this separate opinion is a great example for law students. And I have kept it very well and also these discussions about what is instructional and what is a time-consuming term. This is a phenomenal substance from which young legal heads will be fed for years and years and will think that we are in 1945, not in 2003. Because it would be unreasonable for them to say that the President of the Constitutional Court could say that it could be the eighth day or the ninth. What if it was 14 days later? When, then, do other hands count from where and so on? Please! I would not talk about the deadlines because this is a first-class topic for other environments, and there we will have the opportunity to make this very clear in order to be able to comment on it; indeed a good example of study will be this. What's the profession in Parliament? If we follow the magnetograms that we can read about what's going on on the internal policy committee. And if we quote Mrs. Irmo Pavlinič Krebs [[Quote]] : "In the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will fully support the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of our National Assembly. Not only is it extremely well-prepared, but I can assess by content that the full follow-up of our parliamentary club in defending the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision." End of quote.) Sometimes a job is instrumentalized, but sometimes it isn't. When a decision of our law enforcement service suits you, then, of course, you use it, you refer to it, sometimes you might even convince it in some other way; if it does not suit you, you simply say it does not bind us. Here I think of a colleague of Dr. Bajuk who, at the beginning of this mandate, asked whether we need such a legislative and legal service at all. Yes, after what is happening now - so if I were to judge this last situation - I would say no, because no one is responsible for anything in this national assembly. For non-compliance with the rules of procedure - it doesn't matter, for double criteria - it doesn't matter. Nobody feels responsible. And the law enforcement service can speak one thing today, and tomorrow it says another - and what? Why are we paying for this job? It doesn't make any sense. It doesn't even make sense. It's important who has the majority. This is important. And then we get to the creative application of the law. About the consequences. You're talking about 600 million and so on, the referendum won't have any effect. If the law falls to the referendum, a new law will have to be drawn up. And we in the opposition say - I don't know how many times we've said this - one law in which we'll clearly tell who it belongs to. It was clearly stated that if a mistake was made by the State authority, the State must correct the injustice. But first it must be determined in the procedures prescribed for it. Such a law could also lay down more detailed criteria for possible compensation and even its height, so that we can know clearly what we are talking about. Such a law, which would also have specific, clearer criteria than the system-wide law, I have already said this on occasion in this assembly, would be the right basis for these problems to be resolved in a civilized manner. People would have a very clear picture. One and the other. Okay, I'm in this category, it belongs to me. I belong in this category. It doesn't belong to me. And that's how we give it to everyone, you give it to everyone. Even in the state of legal knowledge, legal culture, I am not surprised by the statement made by Mrs Krebsova today, which I do not know for a second time, the third time spoken here, which says that the LDS will stand for the limitation of compensation. Yeah, well, that's first-class nonsense. First of all, because I'm asking you why you didn't do it now. Secondly, the court's legal decision is a judicial decision. And if the court awards compensation to someone, it can no longer be taken away. That's pretty clear. Or maybe you still think we're living in another time when things like this have happened before, in case they ever happen. And in the end, allow me to express another concern. Not above the state of the spirit in this national assembly, in this part of the ruling majority, because it is evident, not because of the occasional application of the law and the reference to human rights, which you do not know how to define, but because of the tendency in Slovenia. First, it had to be done with the invaders. Let us see which of the important men of that time remained. Eden, I think. But, okay. I don't complain about political functions. They make their own choices, and they are as they are. That's fine with me. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about the Slovenian state giving compensation to families who had fallen in the war for Slovenia, amounting to 800,000 tolars. 800,000 tolars. That kids got 63,000 tolls of invalidity or whatever it's called. That the wounded in the war for Slovenia received nothing. That they do not even have any document that would suggest that they were wounded in the war for Slovenia, since we have not yet settled some simple matter in the official records of that country: wounded in the war for Slovenia. No, all these people who were wounded in the war on Slovenia are under the heading "working accident". Well, that's a disgrace to this country! Look, I don't have the power to change that. And you have it. You're the only one who can't change that, because you've obviously got some other idea about things. Do you see this absurdity? On one side of the clock and hours we are discussing a category of people who already have a status, who have a status. It's a right from the past that belongs to them or not. And all we're saying is, okay, it belongs to them if it turns out to be. No, that's too much for you. On the other hand, I keep reminding you what absurd things can lead to, and you don't care. Imagine this situation, that the law does not fall, that we start to apply it directly and that those who are entitled, but someone else, of course, on your proposal, can all, all four thousand, apply some compensation requirements in court. Who's gonna pay for this? Even those ladies who lost their husbands. These ladies, who are widows today and their children, will also be paying these compensations for those for whom you are so fighting. Is that right? It's wrong, it's wrong, there's something very wrong with this choir. And when that is the case, what has been said today is the right thing for the people to decide. That's why referendums, when people see that there's some kind of chaos that you've created, need a decision at the referendum. And it's not just about widows and children who have lost their fathers, but it's about, say, our boys, I tell them. These were members of the Slovenian army, the territorial defences, which, of course, were very heartwarming at the time and were very prominent. And in the first period, they also did very well in wartime and later. Where are our boys today? Where are the territorialists today who had some positions, then they're gone? Where are they? Yeah, it's simple, they're gone. And why aren't there, why don't they have such positions? Because they don't meet the formal legal conditions, czech, they don't have a military academy at JLA. However, JLA officers are at all possible positions, key positions. Take only a consultant to the President of the Republic, there have been three so far, all of them JLA officers. Now that they have proposed to the President of the Republic that any of these independents, such as General Slapar or others, I have given three names, no, someone who has the JLA Academy has come under consideration. What is this JLA Academy that is worth more than I would say, Slovenian boys who have stood out and proved themselves in the war of Slovenia, please? But it's a state of mind. JLA was a step in brotherhood and unity, and you know what was going on in Yugoslavia. We are still raising this school as a condition in the Slovenian army, instead of putting it in the dump of history where it belongs. And those who have proved themselves in this war would be allowed to attend military schools. Not at the FDV, but at military schools, in these well-known specific skills, which they have proven to be qualified for. No, we will not experience this because the JLA Academy is more important than the demonstrated ability of people in the war for Slovenia. So you see, it is necessary for people at the referendum to face the truth and see what chaos you created in the ruling part of the coalition and then decide at the referendum that this law falls. I wouldn't be as worried as you are, but I'm saying he can't play with people. They will judge in their own way, and it is our duty to enable them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, if you'll excuse me, you've quoted me twice. The allegations were both wrong to use the possibility of repair. That's right. You are showing me the magnetogram of the session and to protect the integrity of the neutrality of the opinions of the legislative and legal service, I must explain to you that this statement is taken out of context. At this meeting of the committee, you were not there, I corrected this statement below, as Dr. Brejc said awkwardly, of course she corrected, there was no way of thinking as you are reading it now. A magnetogram of the session, which lasted almost midnight, please take it and read it to the end. Another time. Retroactive use, the possibility of limiting compensation, only this, the Constitutional Court's decision to enforce criminal sanctions, signed by Dr. Lovro Šturm: retroactive use is possible, the use of a proportionality test, it is permissible to limit compensation only when the threat to public benefit has already arisen or exists. That's what this decision says. Thank you very much. I give my word to the next man, Mrs Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of the so-called deleted, much has already been said in and outside the National Assembly, and I would like to point out three things concerning the work of the National Assembly itself. The National Assembly, or more precisely the majority of members of the ruling coalition, passed a law on so-called deleted persons. The Council of State has vetoed this law, and the National Assembly has again made the same decision and the law has been adopted. Subsequently, 30 Members of the European Parliament signed a call for a referendum. The National Assembly, or most members of the ruling parties, requested the Constitutional Court to decide that the referendum would have anti-constitutional consequences, but the following day it reclassified it as an initiative of the National Assembly to assess the possible consequences of the referendum. That's the first point you want to talk about, that's unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court rejected the initiative of the National Assembly to assess the possible unconstitutional consequences of the referendum because the National Assembly had missed the deadline. It is truly unusual for the national assembly or members of the ruling coalition to talk about the unconstitutional consequences, since the anti-constitutional consequences have already come after the half-year period by which the national assembly should abolish the unconstitutionality of the law has expired. That's also what the Constitutional Court is talking about. According to its position as guardian of the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is therefore bound by its decisions and is obliged by Parliament to implement them in a constitutionally permissible manner within a certain period of time. Failure to comply with Constitutional Court decisions constitutes a serious violation of the principles of the rule of law and the principle of the division of power. It is true that the National Assembly has the right to question the constitutionality of the request for a referendum, but first it has the duty to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And there's 16 of them, and they're out of time. This shows the great duplicity of the National Assembly, and I think it says a lot. The other thing I'd like to point out is a delay in time. The decision of the National Assembly, in particular, the majority of the members of the ruling coalition on constitutional judgment was adopted within the prescribed time limit, but was submitted too late. As I have already said, the National Assembly has the right to question the constitutionality of the request for a referendum, but the National Assembly must do so within the prescribed time limit set by the law, since the seven-day period protects the constitutional right of citizens to make direct decisions against unjustifiable interventions by Parliament. Therefore, the deadline cannot be considered as a recommendation, but as an obligation that Parliament itself has enacted by a two-thirds majority, which is required for the adoption of a system law on referendum and human initiative. I'm sure the deadline was perfectly delayed. I am also drawn to this point by the statement made by the Minister of the Interior on the Internal Policy Committee, when we also discussed the deadlines he said, among other things [[Quote]] That "after the expiry of this deadline it would not be possible to sign a referendum as well" [[End quote]] . What can be understood is that if we have missed the deadline for the submission of an initiative by the National Audit Assembly, we have also missed the deadline for the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder where the responsibility of those who manipulated was, or if you want to, misinterpreted. And the third thing I'd like to point out is impatience. The perceptions that we have received from the supporters of the referendum in the National Assembly are completely unfounded, and I cannot accept them in any way. The whole process of enacting the law has been enforced and has not allowed any other solutions, even in different ways, has been hampered. For this reason, I believe that the referendum is the only and correct response to such behaviour of power. It is clear that injustices must be rectified if they have possibly been done, and I hope that, after the referendum has succeeded, it will be possible to re-order the cases so-called deleted in an appropriate and acceptable manner. The sweat's gone back. And the referendum is the only way to keep the state as much a legal face as it does. Only through a referendum can citizens and citizens reject the law, although any decision will not affect the situation of the so-called deleted, as is said by the Constitutional Court. The possible referendum should be a political and not a constitutional issue, the Constitutional Court also warns. Therefore, there cannot be a dilemma between the policies regarding the adoption of the referendum decision. By your actions, you've driven the matter so far. Human rights don't have a price, we've heard about this law many times. But the arrogant man has his own price to pay by all taxpayers. Can we hope that the authorities will learn something from this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek gets the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are in a debate that is of great interest to the Slovenian public. I do not think that such unity of Slovenian citizens has been achieved after plebiscite with regard to the topic under consideration. I think the Slovenians will decide once again at the referendum that the authorities have gone too far to grant all the privileges even to a handful of those they do not deserve. I am not surprised that today, in this Chamber, the advocates of this law and opponents of the referendum have spoken words and such flossules, that it is a mirage, a decision on the lack of action, a mirage of the rule of law, that it is a matter for a referendum, and that there is a disability referendum. It seems to me that they are echoing the words of this hall, which we have heard from the mouth of some, have indeed been in the extreme minority, before the plebiscite of independence. It almost seemed to me that Milan Aksentijevic was saying something similar back then in this same hall, that the Slovenian state is a mirage, that this country will not survive, that in this country, some have spoken, eaten grass. We now listen to the same expressions, the same intimidation and the same humiliation of Slovenian citizens. It is as if Slovenian citizens do not know sovereignly, independently, with discretion and when they do not have this right as enshrined in Article 3 that they are the highest authority of sovereignty. Slovenian citizens would like to take this constitutional right, in fact by such speech. That it wanted to and that in any way it wanted to prevent this referendum between Slovenian citizens, we have a series of evidence. I must say that I myself have been at that famous night or evening meeting of the Internal Policy Committee and that I have responded immediately to Mrs Krebs's words, which she spoke on behalf of the LDS Club. And those words were [[Quote]] that "the legal and legislative service has fully followed the implementation of the LDS Club in defending the law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision". These words are not lapsus lingue, for man should be incompetent to misinterpret such an important matter. It was honesty, which I commended at the session itself. For honesty and simplicity, how the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was written in the backstage of this National Assembly. This is unheard of, and this has been a great shame to this national assembly - that the legal profession works according to the instructions that the legal profession prepares these opinions in this way. Even more embarrassing was the fact that this opinion expressed that it had been clearly expressed the time limit that had already been applied several times, which was called in the legal procedure of a laudable, mandatory time frame, in this case when the national assembly tried to prevent the referendum from being carried out, that this period was not applicable because the applicants of that decision, which they had sent to the Constitutional Court at the time, were a particular race; they had special rights in that country and they whistled at the sliding hands. In this opinion, [[I've got him right here in front of me.]] it is written: "We believe that this understanding of the time limit in Article 16 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative is too narrow and is not in accordance with the purpose of this provision." I don't know, it can't be hidden, although it would be better if such an opinion from the National Assembly, as the opinion of the National Assembly, would never come and never go. This opinion and such referrals to the Constitutional Court in the event that the Constitutional Court adopts such an opinion and such a final interpretation would constitute a total erosion of the legal system in that country. This would mean that all those who received negative decisions five years ago and did not complain were able to file further complaints tomorrow. I'm a bit of a cartoonist, but it's actually a performance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the laughing stock of the rule of law. And this is the laughing stock of the rule of law. For this reason, I protest that the official representative of the LDS Group may say that 30 Members are being asked to laugh at the rule of law in carrying out a referendum on the issue of the rule of law. These Members, who have signed up to this request, have been reminded of the non-consistency of such an approach since the first day. We have warned that the matter, matter, should be regulated in a single law that it is not against the ruling of the Constitutional Court, but rather that we want and that we are convinced that it is necessary that this law also lays down certain criteria, that it is also selective, that not only a handful of those who have sinned against this country who did not comply with the criteria set at the time are entitled to these permanent residence decisions. And, ladies and gentlemen, that this is also the case among this group, for a large minority within this group, I was also confirmed by the opinion of a citizen who acquired citizenship after 1991, who is a Serb by nationality, and the last time I played a chess tournament, he wanted to talk to me and told me that as one of the protagonists in Koroška, I will not name him, he claims that he was only dealing with "stranger" in his life. He says, I would, even though he's just as national as I am, I'd kick him out of the country. He authorized me to name him because he said he used to be a "war face" and so on. He said he would vote against us, or he is with us, signatories in a possible referendum. He will vote against this category, which thus seeks to gain certain privileges and silence its action against this country. I am now firmly convinced that the large, large, large majority of Slovenian citizens, Slovenians, and the 170,000 Slovenian citizens who have acquired Slovenian citizenship, who are not Slovenians, today have this opinion. And you fear the opinion of Slovenian citizens. You condemn us and urge us to be impatient, to be impatient. I agree that you spoke impatiently here today. But we didn't speak impatiently against the Slovenian state. Many are impatient with those who were already impatient against the future Slovenian country before plebiscite in 1990. They were against independence, once again I stress that they were saying it was an uncivilised country. And they're setting conditions for compensation today. Next, they offer to deal with the country that they are willing to deviate from 100 million compensations, but with only a few million they would be satisfied. And you're actually aware of all this. As a result, you say that only after the first applications for compensation will you see if this is a serious problem. Probably, in law, it is known that the matter is being resolved on the day of the application and that we do not have to create duality. The terms and financial consequences of the law should be in law, as this is also what the rules of procedure require. You deliberately didn't do it. To the Minister's words, when he said that there would be no payment of material and social rights under this law, I said to him: Mr Minister, propose an amendment, let's write it down, now we can do it. If the denationalisation law is the same clause, why can't we do that here? You looked down, made fun of yourself, you didn't accept it. And now you're afraid of the human voice. Let me paraphrase Jenkot again: Why are you so loud? And the poet Jenko answers you, "You fear the Slavs, you fear the Slavs." You are afraid of the citizens of Slovenia. Of course, you will get political mistrust over such conduct. I'm sure of it. This political distrust will be legitimate, this political distrust will not be intolerance, because I firmly believe that Slovenians and Slovenian citizens will maintain tolerance. Today, we stress that those who have been wronged and who are innocent victims of the 1990s, should be given back to those who deserve it. But they're impatient on the other hand, intolerance on the other hand. However, Slovenian citizens will maintain tolerance and, of course, fight this legitimacy for equality, including their children and future generations. They will not allow their children, future generations, to pay compensation to those who have actually shot at our country who have sinned against this country, who do not even want to be loyal foreigners. Of course, they had the right not to become, but each country has the right to lay down certain rules of conduct for foreigners, and each country has a discretionary right to lay down a rule, who has also fulfilled the criteria and who has failed to meet them. As I said, of course I support this decree and the implementation of the referendum. As my colleague Rokavec said, all three branches of government have fallen down here. This National Assembly has disgraced, as I have already said, the Members. Those who disagreed, who were immediately alerted to violations of the legal rules in this house, but the damage is common. Now let the people express their opinions and their judgment. The Slovenian people are not impatient, it is fair and will make the right decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues. It's right that it's a referendum and I'm glad that, at least I have a feeling, this decision is going to fall today. I certainly do not agree that the referendum will continue to be condemned for not producing any results. I can't agree with that. If not the other, people will also say clearly and loudly for the money you mentioned that the decision that was made is wrong. That's a lot, too. People will tell you at the referendum that they have more than enough facts before them, in the face of the government, liberal democracy and their faithful co-workers in the courts, the Constitutional Court and everywhere. All those who, by voting or in any political way, have been recruited into important functions. The people of this government are going to get some really wonderful gifts from this government at Christmas. Merry Christmas, let the government exclaim when it has given people 5% of the electricity increase. Happy New Year to all Slovenians who still remember the purchase of falcons, a plane running around Ljubljana. Look, these are the facts you put them up to. You bought the case, because who pays for it actually -- where this plane is, it's just a mine shaft -- but these are the facts. The fact was SIB, people were placed before the fact and will pay for the missed investments of Zbiljska Gaj, the facts are operating tables. Don't tell me that this doesn't "feed" in this debate, but these are the facts that you literally put people to, as you did by the decision of the Constitutional Court and by insisting that these written-offs must become registered or registered. You put people before the facts, now you're talking about a referendum there in three days, bringing nothing, no results, we're gonna waste, I don't know how much money. These are all the facts and the facts are as much as you want, and people pay a fair price for this very big tax. Otherwise, through their pensions, through their salaries, which are taxed abnormally high in this country, abnormally high. The salary of a Slovenian employee is 140% taxed, nowhere in Europe do you have this. People are faced with the fact that these flawed and completely harmful decisions are being paid and paid for for years and years, and the same is true of those who have been written down. You put people before the fact and today explain to them and tell them again, "You're the cappers if you go to the referendum and vote for the decision, because you won't change anything anyway." The LDS and their co-workers put the matter in place, and he's not, as a colleague once said, God to move it, he's gone. Go again and say this that the fact is fulfilled and that hope is that they will not now reach out I do not know how much after their pockets and give for these written off, that it is over that every citizen of Slovenia - from a child to one who is barely fighting for life - will pay $50,000 for everyone to be satisfied with erased and written down and I do not know who. Yeah, that's what it's gonna cost. If you calculate the average amount of compensation that has been paid now, you will see how much of this average comes, calculated on the number of Slovenian citizens, about 2 million, it will be, 50 thousand per one, 50 thousand tolars from the baby to the one who is barely anywhere else with his heart and lives. Why do you need them? You probably know that for yourself. But excuse me, 200,000 Slovenian citizens and citizens are from the former republics of Yugoslavia. I was very unfair to them when I was sick and guilty of giving them citizenship and apologizing in a public place. But with the time I saw that you actually fucked them the most, because you didn't give them a normal life, and I feel sorry for those people. I feel sorry for them. These people come to us today and say, "We have suffered, we have suffered a lot, we have not known whether we would become citizens of Slovenia or not, we have inherited promises of good housing, services." They've fallen for the promise of a nice life. Today it is the biggest poverty in Slovenia. Ask those who allocate social housing, how many there are, who beg and beg and ask for the right to come to a good standard. And you needed them. Today they come to me and say how bad it was when they didn't know whether to decide or not. They were under pressure by the same 18,000 deleted, with threats "try to become a Slovenian citizen and you will see what happens". I'll give you the phone numbers, no more than there are, and honest people are that. What, though, did they receive from their decision at that time? They didn't get anything, poverty. Where is Hanžek now to listen to where these rights are, as are the rights of the other Slovenians to be equal. They have no rights. But now these 18,000 will have the right to claim billions of damages from this Republic and from these same people. What right can we give to a person and approve? You know these promises have already been broken, with these people LDS, because they don't need them, don't do them anymore. You need the new 18,000 to make up for lost people. And once again I would very much like to see - human rights, you said, have no price. Human rights are worth a lot of money. They have a heavy price, only this price is paid by those who guarantee human rights, and this is the country, the Republic of Slovenia, not deleted, but by those who are already Slovenian citizens. To all those who have lost their jobs during these years who do not agree that they have worked and paid for years and years in pension funds, today they do not know whether they will receive a pension tomorrow or another month or not. These are human rights, and there must be no harm in money to give them. But it's not like you're buying expensive money and buying some new write-offs for new citizens. And that's what's gonna happen. And do not bluff people here so that this law and what has been adopted will have no financial implications. Severe financial consequences for every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, including the 200,000 I mentioned earlier. However, you are well aware of this, for otherwise it would not have been said that the government would be too high if the demands of these people were too high and if it seemed to someone that it could no longer interfere with the state treasury and the people’s pocket to limit you. How, though, will you limit compensation if someone proves that he suffered for 200 million dollars? Aren't these human rights? What a disassociation with the theory! We will recognize human rights that do not have a price, and then we will limit them to the price. How are you gonna do that? I'm very interested in that. You know, there can't be any of these damages. It can't be! This national assembly should limit or write such a law that would prevent this because it is the exploitation of this country and the exploitation of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's exploitation! And what you're doing, that's not it, that's completely different -- selling yourself for expensive money at the expense of strangers. My people, the Falcon is running over Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. You know, you know, you get to start commenting first, but I don't think that's necessary right now. Of course, in such discussions, I ask myself personally, especially at the last appearance of my colleague Rupar, whether today the National Assembly will not take a decision to finance the SDS, New Slovenia and the opposition. In my opinion, the issue of deleted and of correcting an unconstitutional and illegal erasure is a political issue that has been misused since the beginning. It is more than clear, at least he believes that the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the proposers of the request for a referendum abuse this issue to raise political points. And what is most sad and worrying, on the other hand, is that they are working at the expense of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which, by erasing, have also been violated by a large group of individuals. There is no doubt about that in relation to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And I think they should think about what they're doing. Taking into account the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has written in explanation of its last decision that it has made clear that the referendum will have no legal effect and that the question of the meaning of the referendum is seriously raised, one would expect, and it would also be logical to remove unconstitutionality and illegality as soon as possible and to remove the issue of deleted persons slowly from this political menu. It is also quite clear, and this has been stated by the Constitutional Court that no technical law is necessary to enforce a decision of the Constitutional Court. And that his possible rejection of the referendum cannot have any legal consequences for the deletion. The anti-constitutional situation arising from a decision of the Constitutional Court or from non-compliance with decisions of the Constitutional Court has already arisen. Today we have an anti-constitutional situation and the possible rejection of this referendum of this law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision will continue. With all these clearly recorded facts, and not just one, it is a constitutional court, I myself have personally found today, mistakenly hoping that the candidates will show some political wisdom and request for a referendum to be withdrawn. Unfortunately, that deadline expired yesterday. If the request had been withdrawn, it would have been my opinion that they were actually prepared to resolve the deleted issue in the manner ordered by the Constitutional Court. In doing so, I can partly agree with him that a mistake has also been made in these interpretations. This request could be withdrawn. However, they did not do so, although they knew whether they should know that the referendum was unnecessary and that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would decide on the shadow of Oslo at the referendum. About the shadow of the donkey. At this point, the applicants then continue to abuse this issue today, and by manipulating people, they place sand in their eyes, claiming that the referendum will decide something. It is interesting that they do not say that the Constitutional Court has merely asked itself the question of the meaning of such a referendum on this law, which it has found unnecessary, and that paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court’s decision can already be implemented directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. Even if the citizens in the referendum refuse to enforce the law, this decision will not affect the enforcement of the decision, it will not detract from the responsibility of this national assembly to resolve this issue and will not oblige the minister to start implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision. By the way, when we talk about these deleted ones, it reminds me of a story from Fran Miličinski Butalci, where there is a story about the Butal Rabbit, and read it on vacation. Of course, I am also surprised by the fact that the so-called technical law has so many tears, crocodiles, due to its financial consequences, although it has been repeatedly said that this law cannot have a legal basis for compensation. It just gives the constitution, and it's the right thing to do. Any person who is a member of the former Republic of the SFRJ or of a Slovenian or anyone who is caused by an illegal act, the conduct of a State, the violation of a right, must, for God's sake, be covered by the State. This law has not spoken of it, but it is already a belt, we have already stressed it so many times, but we continue to do so. Taking care of those 600 million, according to other comments by counterpart Rupar about the SIB bank, of course this is a small amount. But it's got to start with the little things, and this worry is kind of off. It's completely understandable to me, especially because it doesn't matter anymore. It is more important to continue to collect cheap political points at the expense of human rights violations and the fate of individuals. I know quite a few cases inside of these eraseds. I am talking about a large group of individuals who have been, again, erased in an illegal way, including Rosle, interestingly, from the famous Kekce teachings. That little boy Rozle was wiped out. Good thing we didn't delete Kekc. Good. Since the motioners have missed the opportunity to withdraw the referendum, and the call for this referendum is legally binding at this time, I will abstain from voting personally. I do not want to participate in throwing sand in the eyes of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to decide at this referendum whether or not they are being rectified or not. Guilt, we're talking about one injustice, one mistake, an illegal deletion from a permanent residence registry. Finally, allow me to touch in some way the individual claims made today by previous debaters. Comrade Jelinčič, too bad he's not here, he said he's opposed, and on this side too, it was heard that we were opposed to the referendum. Look, it's not about opposing the referendum, it's not about opposing the referendum as an instrument of direct democracy. It is, however, against the referendum, which is pointless, because the result does not bind this national assembly, the minister, that I do not repeat the story that I have told before. It was said, as one of the arguments, every lawyer knows that ignorance of the law harms. Comrade Jelinčič is absolutely right about this, but on one condition: this rule, which urinates the old, applies only in cases where it is not illegal, illegal acts of the State against individuals. Yeah, for God's sake, what's the individual's fault with this camera, then you're reading to him "the ignorance of the law does harm"? I'm sure in this group of people who are large, they're also speculative. But there are also many such as the Flowers of Kekce's scruples, who thought that this status was regulated and that there was nothing to do with him because he worked here, lived here, even when he was young he was invited to make a very beautiful Slovenian film, but in the end he realized that he had been erased. Good news is that Kekec is not a Slovenian by birth; it is good that we have not yet erased this. Then I got a little stung when my colleague Brace spoke and waved with the constitution, just like I'm about to, "Show me what human rights are in here." I only tried for one thing because I don't have much time. Article 32, paragraph 1, of the Constitution: "Everyone has the right to move freely and choose his residence to leave the country and return at any time." It's over! And this is not about - as has been repeatedly said today - the use of law is creative. No, this is a simple quote from Article 32. But if you go to your brother's declaration of human rights and anything else, you'll find a lot more rights. And one more thing, it is the individual's right to decide freely which nationality he will have. No one can force someone, and you can't punish him for it if he doesn't make up his mind. I don't know how we would behave in this national assembly if, say, my aunt, who has been working in Germany for 30 years and is a Slovenian citizen - a Slovenian citizen! - normally living and working abroad, there's a second generation of children working there. What would happen if someone in the country of Bavaria removed them from the residence register overnight? I don't know, I think we'd all jump in the air together, "what are they doing?" How we jumped into the air when Mr Haider in Austria did not respect the Constitutional Court's decision to label Slovenian settlements where the rights of minorities are concerned. Then there was a speech - and I apologize if I misheard - "the military academy in Belgrade and JLA was the forge of fraternity and unity". I don't know, because I wasn't at the Belgrade Academy, and I didn't serve my military service in JLA. However, it might be possible to tell my colleague Brejc more about this, the Director-General of Police, Mr Marko Pogorevc, who is the product of a blacksmith from Belgrade. He knows that. He may have been confronted with it, perhaps suffering so much that he made a different decision. And he did, obviously. Yeah, that's how it was here. I believe he has no connection, but something that needs to be said in particular, my colleague Brejc and my colleague Rupar, and some result of this referendum will have and here we have come to a truly creative application of the law. My friend Rupar, I'll give you a hat down here. Just as you interpreted the outcome of the referendum and this decree, which clearly contains a referendum, this is already, and this is beyond normal capacity. I don't get it. I'm sorry. What has been said about this interpretation, what people have decided, because they will be at this referendum. But the fact is, they won't decide anything. They'll go to the referendum, I believe what it'll be like, we both know what the result will be, but it won't affect this law. We don't need law, the Constitutional Court's decision is clear and the Minister has to start working. We could make another law, but not about the 8th. That's an ad act. I don't know where the idea is from now that if this referendum succeeds or I don't know how to express myself that the law will be rejected, then we'll be preparing another. No, no, no. I'm stressing again. There will be no new law on the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. We also learned that on this side. My buddy Rupar just brought me one, I think, rupurut, I don't know what it is. Finally, there is only one thing that I find offensive in some way to fellow Members and colleagues in this parliamentary group and coalition, that it is a matter of underestimating the electorates and voters or taking away the right of the referendum. No, it is simply a matter of being honest with these people, to tell them, "you will decide on this referendum, but your decision will not affect the legal status of these persons, of whom the law speaks." If you're telling us this is an understatement, no, it's, I think, a real stick. [[...]] But that we are in this situation, as we are talking today about this decision, is your fault. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Madam President, is this [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u69	It's the end of admiration. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u70	My guess is it's your fault you weren't ready to withdraw your request. The decision would, of course, be, in the light of the decision issued, a clear solution and the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision would begin to be implemented. However, since the deadline is too late and since this referendum is legally binding, I cannot vote against this because I would vote against the constitutionally and against the law on referendum and human initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to be brief. But perhaps I would begin with this statement by Mr Wolf about guilt, certainly a similar statement by the lying Hooker. It seems to me that this whole story is a very thoughtful and very well-directed game, in a triangle: the government represented by the Minister, Dr Bohinc, then, of course, the National Assembly with a great coalition, and the Constitutional Court. Everyone got something in this story. To say that the deadline has been delayed because the legislature of the National Assembly does not know what the deadline means, of course, is pointless, I cannot believe this story. I think this hand was deliberately delayed. What our fellow Member, Zupanov, has already mentioned. And then what did the actors in this game get? Yeah, they got that the Constitutional Court didn't have to judge because they had problems. Due to the overdue deadline, the proposal of the National Assembly was rejected and one instruction was given and placed in the role of a small legislator when he wrote in his decision that the Minister should issue decisions that were passed by law. It says here that the referendum on this law is pointless. But I would like to ask all those, and I'm in LDS today, too, many times we hear people at the referendum not making any decisions about why then a month ago you took such a stand for the adoption of this law. You've done everything you can to ensure that this law has been passed. Everything. You've wasted a lot of time adopting this marriage and probably a lot of money. After all, this meeting today will cost quite a bit. You also state that you do not intend to take any responsibility. Yes, but if you are most deserving, this technical law is actually the same as it is. We would have agreed if that amendment of the opposition had been adopted, and then the law would have been such that it would not have allowed these compensation requirements, which are discussed so much today. You're talking about some mirage referendum. However, I would really like to see if you are so determined that, despite the decision of the people at the referendum, if, of course, they decide against this technical law, if you are really willing to make decisions and also allow these claims to occur. Thank God! Do it. I think that the Slovenian voters are getting more and more familiar with the fact that they will, in fact, come true before Mr Školč's words that this space will be ventilated. Of course, not only did he think he did, but he did, above all, ventilate as far as the composition was concerned. It's been a while since we've seen this happen. The decisions you make mostly are getting worse, and there's nothing left to do but invite people to a referendum and decide on it. To mark those who advocate different solutions that we do not agree that some, while we have always stressed that the Constitutional Court's decision must be implemented, but not by some having greater rights than those who have arranged this matter in due time, mark us as impatiences, xenophobics and I do not know what else, is, of course, kindly said, unkindly, unreasonable, illogical and what else these terms are. Of course, all of us should strive to find a suitable solution. This time is late, of course you who have this majority, when you could have arranged these matters legally, are not. Now, of course, there's nothing left but people being invited. I hope, even if it will be determined that this will be decided, I do not know, on a deserted Sunday, when it will still seem a little extra, that the Slovenians will make the right decision and that, of course, this technical law, as you have adopted and named, will be rejected. Then it will be up to you to show whether you are really against the will of people, even with the help of the Constitutional Court, to make decisions for these people as you have intended. I don't think you're gonna do that. But if you do, then know that people will punish you for this step, and it is only right to punish you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Peterlet's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u74	Thank you very much. My wife told me on the way out today, and come back quickly so you can clean up something else in the house. This is obviously not going to work, but I hope that I will be able to contribute to clarifying these matters, despite all that has been said. I'm one of the signatories to the request. First of all, because I find it unacceptable to play this way with the rule of law, which is written down as a goal and a value at the beginning of our constitution. Not to speak of any dignity or dignity. I signed this request because I am against double criteria, as the opponents of our request show. It is difficult to understand a democratic head or a person who takes our constitution very seriously, that the same people are able to have such different views on what the relationship is to a problem, or to a human being, or to some victim. That's how we feel about those killed by the revolution, I think, 200,000, after a long process. My father, who had experienced Rab and Renica, not a pleasant place during World War II, had the right, but I don't think he took advantage of it to get 20 grand for every month of his stay in two concentration camps. Whoever fought for Slovenia and therefore died allowed him 800,000. Suddenly, the issue of finance was no longer a merciless one, irrespective of the rules of procedure, which requires the presentation of financial benefits or financial consequences in the laws. Without taking into account the rules of procedure, the law simply came into the national assembly and was adopted. So there are other double criteria. I cannot help but point out how those who are now absolutely on the side of one understanding of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision were against the Constitutional Court when it ordered this house to narrow down the referendum will, as it proved in the referendums on electoral systems. Absolute duality, I can't say otherwise. I signed this request because I don't want to, and I never wanted to sign the bill of lading. Today, some recognize, including those who oppose this requirement or the referendum, that there will be financial consequences. But I find it completely irresponsible to go into this story with my eyes tied, so I felt like a democratic need to do everything I could not do. And it makes me feel responsible for that kind of behavior. Of course, the state has no pockets other than taxpayers' pockets. However, I would not want the extreme situation, as already mentioned today, to be paid out of my pocket by someone who did not want to make a decision or was even against the establishment of a Slovenian state. One is the democratic diversity of opinions, opinions, judgements, options and so on - everyone has the right to do so. However, I do not think that there is any basis for this project, thank God, to blame for not being generous, for not being open to those who, therefore, wanted to regulate the status, not only through citizenship, but also through other status, or for regulating the permanent residence, there were some 30,000 of them, if I am not mistaken, but now to blame those who were not only governmental, but also through the parliamentary line very generous, to experience recognitions on the European stage in this regard, but also to say on the world stage, someone has already quoted us as being guilty, to do so now, for the indecisiveness, speculation or anything for those who did not wish or wanted to settle this status, it is special that they would not have used any hard words. And of course, it is quite obvious to me that it is a matter of extreme politicalization of this matter, that it is not only a demeaning of the eight-stranded acts, that it is an allergy that has been going on for a very long time, that I find it in the difference between the Mayan declaration from which Demos was based and which assumed or expressed a request for a Slovenian state and the fundamental charter supported by forces which, after the plebiscite, opposed the decisions taken in this national assembly. That is why unity cannot be spoken of so easily in Slovenia, one is the human level, and one is the level of political leaders or political lines as they were at the time. And I would say to why I also signed that, as a signatory, as a member of this national assembly, the only possibility that I still have to influence the democratic way that things would not have gone as the ruling coalition or as part of this coalition, I must say, because some have not done so with two laws and I would hardly have believed that they did not have any opinion at the time, which some today cynically represent, that there is no need for law. So, gentlemen, if you'll just get along a little bit with each other, you're talking about how to handle such a difficult matter, not the time to steal. It is not a matter of New Year's time now and of what holiday needs; but this story you have simply cooked up, I cannot have another explanation for this situation, once in your opinion the law is needed, now there is no longer any need at all, you are saying strange things about the referendum which are - I think I really can't do otherwise - as part of Slovenian political cynicism. I will also say this: the law, as you have proposed and accepted, is discriminatory to different categories and is flat-rate, covers everything at home, as it can be obtained with this explanation - not only through citizenship or powerful financial benefits in some direction - to get another explanation of why you wanted to cover everything 'over'. And yet let me mention this in terms of finance. Look, I've heard a little bit about some of the approximates and demands in the media. I think someone was talking about 200 million. Let's multiply it a little bit, and multiply it with some commissions, and with some amounts for lawyers, and so on, a nice sum comes in. I think so. Almost not on the right. Now to the question of how the matter is resolved. Look, you're not gonna convince me, either, that the president of the National Assembly doesn't know the calendar or the hour with all the legal work. People ask me, ordinary people, they say, how come you're paid, you're professionals, you don't know the calendar or the clock. And I have to agree with those who express, at least I would say - doubting whether or not they express the thesis that this matter has been carried out so deliberately. It's clearly written down and it's known when the hand is slippery and when it's instructive. And in this regard, the matter is quite clear, and even the Constitutional Court said so. Maybe some of them didn't know why information was given here that we still had time. You know that the debates took a long time, but it was interesting when this information came, but the debate soon fell and we decided, and there was still time to send this to the Constitutional Court. I think very interesting explanations are possible why this was late. Apparently, some expect to pay a lower price on this salary than they would if this case were to go through the Constitutional Court. And I think - I also have to say this in this regard, I am not the only one who will say this today - I think that the Constitutional Court has moved into political leadership with its attitude to this issue. And I'm not surprised either. This Constitutional Court is not composed of a visual balance, as was the constitutional courts before it. This Constitutional Court is composed of an extremely unilateral body, including the former head of the former SDP, the current United Nations List of Social Democrats, which I am taking, not from now on, for the unacceptable politicisation of the Constitutional Court. Now, to the story of "there will be no consequences". Ladies and gentlemen. We are not talking here about a bird called "the green-footed hawk", as I heard yesterday about this interesting bird honey in the new Slovenian film, under its window. It's not a green-footed bird. The point is that this is a matter for all citizens and citizens, because when and if they are allowed to deal with the issue of compensation in this manner - and billions are being talked about, not millions - then it will be out of these pockets, as I said, the state does not have others. And then it will concern everyone, not just those who had a special connection with self - conquest or with the people associated with the victims. And it's not just about money. First, it is a matter of the rule of law. And I'm surprised, so it's amazing that there's an anti-referendum campaign going on right now, that the government representative says it won't have any consequences. In short, you've told us: whatever you're doing, gentlemen, you're working, you're standing on your head, or on eyelashes, or on your feet, whatever you're doing, is bob against the wall, we're moving on. If you're not for marriage, we'll do it directly. Whatever you want, you do, the caravan goes on, and you bark. Look, I didn't expect such a moment in Slovenian democracy, I didn't want it, and of course I can't support it either. And I'd like to express to you my different beliefs. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, we are no longer in Yugoslavia. Three Yugoslavias have collapsed, three have been dictatorships, and Slovenia wants to be a democracy. And I want to contribute to democracy. You can cover yourself with three hats and seven bells, you can make yourself deaf, completely deaf and blind, but this referendum, ladies and gentlemen, will have consequences, you will feel them accurately because people will express themselves again. On your part, you predict that you will lose, and I think you will, because you have gone against some basic rules and now you do not have to disqualify those who will come to the referendum in advance because they have this right, not us who have proposed the referendum because we have the constitutional democratic right to do so. I am not asking these acts because they are not worthy of democratic manners. Let's go to this referendum, or we can't do this anymore. You made this law. We wanted to supplement it. We were not talking about a violation of the constitutional decision, we wanted to make the law "drink water" to be acceptable. And you were not able to accept in your reigning arrogance a small complement that would allow individual treatment; but you would not sit here, clean up today, cheer up your families with the presence elsewhere. However, it is only right that we clarify these matters. And this case, because now it's about the culprits and so on, was simply "hot" on the side of the ruling coalition. And now, I mean, I don't advise cynicism if that's not how you did it. You will see that this referendum will once again decide on the dignity and dignity of this country as regards its legality, respect for the rule of law. And you went into another interesting thing: you were already trying to give this thing in advance with a proposal from the Internal Policy Committee for a little masquerade, carnival inspiration. I'll tell you that the masquerade will work against you because people can't turn around like that without being "fucked" on the cartoon - sorry! You had all the dates you wanted, you went on a deserted Sunday -- okay, thank you very much. We'll come in and we'll vote, and we'll see what the result is and who's left with the mask then. The following matter, Mr Krivic, which is of course an important item in this story, is spreading - I must say this because I doubt that you have all picked this up from the media where it was possible - lies at European and domestic addresses. With regard to this story, the attacks by the President of the State, even the attacks by the Minister of the Interior, the attacks by the State Council, in which the right-wing forces apparently won, I wonder if the State Council is really that far-right; attacks on the right, attacks of course standard facilities: Janez Janso, Loizeta Peterlet. Warning that it would not be an accident to consider which candidate for the European Parliament, the President of the European Parliament and so on, attacks two televisions, which are attributed to them a well-organised campaign against, in order to convince people that this is not about human rights, but about other matters. And, of course, the referendum poses a threat. Our former member of the Constitutional Court. I think it is also my duty to say this that the Slovenian public should also know what these things look like - I hope this will also help to understand where this story goes or from what sources it comes from. And to conclude, I would like to say this: those who have forced this line even with two laws and who now say that nothing will happen, that no matter whether people come or not, I think you are doing Slovenian democracy a bad service. I am sorry that you "climbed" because this issue - from the constitutional decision I continue to say - could be resolved in such a way that the matter would be acceptable and that we should not go to defend the fundamentals of democracy in Slovenia with a request for a referendum. The people will say their word, as always. But if you make him laugh now, if he comes to the polls, I think you will also be able to feel the consequences of this laughter, and I look forward to a deserted Sunday, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Peterle. Just to clarify: in the decree, the deadlines that are written are not fixed, we will decide on that. The chairman of the committee only took up the proposed deadlines and 22. - I think you have proposed a member of your delegation, Mrs Majda Zupan, and Mr Janša. This is just a summary of two proposals. Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. I have not responded to this debate so far, and I do not intend to take any particular action with or after that that some things have already been said five times and have been interpreted differently. But I would like just two sentences of what you now, the chairman, have said. I think this National Assembly should find at least so much wisdom that it doesn't sign a referendum on Sunday. If we are to maintain at least a fraction of the dignity of this national assembly in any way, we will not do so. All the arguments I could make are unnecessary, so I appeal that this referendum is not on a deserted Sunday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. My word to Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I must say, of course, the familiar rule that the more often you say the truth, the more you have a chance of people starting to believe, the more you have been tested. However, such an approach is offensive. It grieves me personally, and I must say that today's debate we've heard is now the fifth time, the eighth time, or I don't know how many times, on the same subject, the mirror we've set ourselves in this national assembly. The mirror that gives us and must let us know that we will look again through this picture that others get about us, and that some, I hope, at least after we think about it, will be awkward because of this picture in the mirror. Turning things around like they're turning around here -- you just can't believe it's possible. I do not want to believe that there are Members here who have been elected by the people very democratically and that they do not understand things that are very simple, very clear and very precise and cannot be interpreted as they are written. I don't want to accept this because it's an insult to me personally afterwards. Because I'm the same. And I don't want to be like that. That's why the only thing that's possible is speculation. And it's speculation. You can wave, gentlemen. You can leave. The facts remain and will be: it is a speculation, a very simple speculation that we have heard several times today. Thank God she's been told. That's for speculation on what we want at this referendum. My colleagues and my colleagues, who have already said many times today that it is not really about this referendum, I cannot agree. Let's go! This is the purpose of the referendum, which we have now heard from our colleague Peterlet, before that from our colleague Soko's mouth, before that from his colleague Brejc's mouth and before that from his colleague Janša's mouth. It was very clear. In fact, this is not about why the referendum will be called. It's a side thing. That's clear to all of us. And that's what I was gonna say, where the insult would be. It is clear to all of us that a referendum can be held and a referendum can be held and it will be announced and people will probably decide to be "against" or I don't know what will have to be surrounded there. What's it gonna be? There will be no law. And then what? Nothing. What's going on? Nothing. And so far, my colleagues and colleagues are right when they say it's unrelated. During these debates that we can hear, for example, colleague Sok made it very clear that "you will not hope to issue decisions", about as it is spelled out, "make decisions against the will of the people". My colleague Peterle made it very clear that something else was going to happen — the people would come forward about it and so on and so forth. This, of course, has absolutely nothing to do with and has nothing to do with this law that we are talking about and with the referendum question that will be on the list that we will offer to the electorate and the electorate. And there's speculation and there's deception. Basically, I don't mind anyone thinking the way they think. Basically, I don't mind anyone trying democracy this way. And so on and so forth, that's legitimate. It bothers me and offends me that we think that people are foolish, that they do not understand that they will not understand this and that the side door will bring another decision through a question that will in itself be irrelevant, and the result will in itself be irrelevant. There's speculation. Like speculations of great things that have already been said several times, today again If I only mention compensation. A hundred-and-a-hundred times the same story. Billions - no one knows what, no one knows how. Rumor has it, we're in favor of an individual approach. But this is an individual approach, which is envisaged. He can't be more individual. The Constitutional Court found only one part of the infringement, one violation. And everyone who is in the category of those who are supposed to be injured must go to court and must prove this violation. He has to prove it in court and the court has to take it. And the court has to say then this one will get so much and so much compensation for this and this. And so mixing with the invaders, with the war, with what I don't know, is, of course, at least ridiculous, as far as it's not very, very frivolous to use such great things in order to hide unfavorable intentions in this case, and yet, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to say a hundred and a hundred times: the original sin is erased. The original sin, which was committed that year and where the Constitutional Court, when it found out, found that the State had made a mistake and that this error had to be corrected. Everything else - now the Constitutional Court of course is not law, the National Assembly which adopts this law is not real, and nothing is right - is the consequence of this. If that error had not been made at the time, as the Constitutional Court had found that it had been done, there would have been no such thing today and there would have been no debate on it. We could clean up at home or do things like this, as we'd heard we'd rather do. And the truth must be told, for I hope to predict what will happen next. Next thing you know, if there's a referendum, there's gonna be a campaign like this right now. A campaign where people will think they're going to vote on something else that they won't. They won't if it's anyone's hot wish for people to vote on democracy, I don't know what. They will not, because it will be a very simple question of whether they are in favour of rejecting this law. And they're gonna have to say yes or no. And when they say "yes," the law will be rejected and dotted. And what's gonna happen? Nothing. Not because that's what the ruling coalition wants, because I don't know who wants it to be, but simply because it's not because it's not otherwise because the referendum on what some people want is a referendum on whether or not the constitutional court was right or wrong. There is no reference to this referendum, but if anyone's wish is so hot that it would be, and ultimately the result of the referendum: yes, the Constitutional Court should not have done it the way it did. There's no such thing! There aren't any words about the referendum! And you know how to talk about democracy, about human initiative, about referendums, and so on is re-transmission. There is nowhere where normal democracy is - and of course it pains me that my fellow Member who is a true doctor, a university professor does not want to understand it; I am sure that he understands it very well. There's no such democracy where we're all going to gather together in some valley, or I don't know where, and we're going to go to this kind of democracy of the Greek type. It's not like that. It is a democracy and a rule of law that has a very clear record of who is doing what in this country. And that's what we have, of course, we just have to respect and do things. Because it is clear what the National Assembly is doing, because it is clear what the Constitutional Court is doing, because it is clear what the government is doing; and because it is clear that people’s will is expressed primarily in elections when they choose us or do not choose us. And you know exactly what the referendum means and when the referendum is used - not when we like it or dislike it, but when we stop doing it. And there's no one else above some things, but knowing where this thing ends. But that is, if I apologize for this thought, but it seems to me that it was necessary to say it because we were simplifying things. Not only in this case, we simplify many times; everything is very simple, what we deal with here is what it is. That's not true. And what's accepted at the referendum is, no matter what. It's not true, and it's never been true, and there's no such thing in normal countries. And this country, as far as it's not yet normal and has to become normal, will also become a normal country. The referendum, which if it will - I hope it won't - I hope it won't, I've said it a few times already and I still hope it won't - will annul the law and nothing will happen, all the expectations that something more will happen than this, are false and simply cannot be accepted as it is because there is nothing to happen, can't happen. I am very sorry that we are going to force people or call them to vote on something that is not, expecting them to say something else that we are actually going to ask them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Eight more debaters are reported in the next order as I'll read to you because you don't know when it's your turn. But 15 minutes after the last debater, we'll move on to a decision. Mr Kacin, Mrs Shirca, Tsukjati, Školč, Marshich, Pukšič, Pece, Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In principle with the Vice-President-in-Office, thank you for the floor. Greetings also to the representative of the government, Mr. Minister! Today is Tuesday, December 30th. And for us to be able to discuss today, some who had vacations had to stop their vacation and come to the National Assembly. I would therefore like to start by saying that, of course, it bothers me that at the beginning of today's session, a word of regret was not expressed that we should be sitting here today. He was obliged to do so either by the President of the National Assembly or by the Secretary-General. I don't care if they agree. The fact that we are disturbing the forecast national television programme for the transmission of this is also something that people in this pre-new atmosphere do not consider good and is not the fault of the constitutional court. The Constitutional Court just brought the ball back to where it was sent. And they sent this thing here in time, unlike us. Mr President of the National Assembly said something about explaining that this did not justify why our material was not sent to the Constitutional Court in time. But I'd like to hear an explanation and an apology. I'm one of the '90s, and I don't want to be as secretive as those who made or didn't make that decision. At least the college members should define who screwed up if we've all screwed up together. Now it's not my personal reputation. It is the reputation of this institution, which is the legislator, that is, the reputation of the National Assembly. And by laughing at the National Assembly, we all laugh at the Slovenian state together. And this one doesn't deserve it after the day of constitutionality. This same week ago we celebrated here and listened to Vice President Pohorc, who had something encouraging to tell us about our role and our work. But no, our president of the National Assembly, on behalf of the National Assembly, can't say one word of regret. And that offends me, and I'm sure there's someone else, whether we're sitting here in the ruling coalition or on this side in the opposition or in the Human Party, which is half in this case. That is why I expect something to be said before the vote and that he will hear something about it. I, too, do not belong to those who would publicly discuss what we think about the Constitutional Court. I can think of that whatever I want; but as a Member, as a legislator, I can only find out that this is not being commented on, that this is to be taken into account. And the Constitutional Court has decided, in accordance with its powers, and has returned the material to us. However, their decision does give rise to some knowledge, and I would like to highlight some of these lessons. I don't know if the words will be right, maybe the minister will help me understand, but they told me, so they wrote it down, and so I read that the technical law is unnecessary. If I may have misread it, they also wrote that he was imperfect, that he should be wider. So, it's either a professional mistake or an unfinished marriage, it's something that's not worth that name, and we're supposed to agree on how to proceed. But there was no word about how we're going to go forward here today, and we've been listening to our colleagues talk all day about what we're going to do with the referendum, and we haven't said anything about how we're going to get rid of this Gordy knot and how we're all going to get together, politically, professionally, ethically, out of this blockade that we're now facing. Therefore, I would suggest that others who are still following me and who are registered for the debate try to make a contribution to finding a comprehensive solution, not to discuss whether the referendum should have been on Sunday, February 22nd or Sunday, February 15. That's why I'm going to say my position now. Of course, I am not in favour of a referendum because I have read the Constitutional Court's decision and that is how I understand it. However, if it has to be, I am not in favour of any, but also the most, lamest, excuse the expression, the referendum takes place at a time when Slovenia is around a deserted scheme. It simply does not work, it is unworthy for the National Assembly and the amendment's proposal is right here when it proposes that we change the date if it has to be, but I am still not sure that it must be because there are ways to avoid it. But, the ways don't start here in the National Assembly, they start elsewhere, this law isn't proposed by the National Assembly, the National Assembly didn't write it, it's written by the government, if you want a coalition, if you don't want to, you're going to tell the half of the coalition that it's the United List or the minister from this United List - whatever you want, but the National Assembly didn't write it. Therefore, the first gesture that gives us the opportunity to go from here to here is this very same minister, this same department, who has to determine whether this unborn child is capable of surviving further, although the Constitutional Court says it is unnecessary and undesirable whether there is any other way, perhaps an agreement with the Prime Minister. Katji in order to find a way out, we need a political agreement, not only within the coalition, but also within the opposition under a and the opposition under b, if anyone wants us to talk precisely. We all need a way out here for all of us 90, for the Slovenian state, for the Slovenian government, and for all those who have electoral rights, but they feel - as I do - a pity that week 22 or 15 for having to show themselves to a member of the electoral commission. It seems a pity to me that week for members of the electoral commission to sit there all day, so that we can finally come up with a decision that we will all comment on in the evening, and then we will have an echo at 22, where everyone will explain what we have achieved and we have achieved nothing, because at that point there will still be no solution to this challenge. The Minister will still be afraid to make decisions without law, because he was obviously afraid before, we got the law. And if that's the case, let's just be honest with you for once. If the government thinks it needs additional coverage, because this is a politically sensitive issue, let the government tell us. For I am not sure that anyone is determined enough, after the legal profession has presented so many different professional opinions, to issue decisions without legal authority. But, as it is said, the decision of the Constitutional Court is uncommented. Takes it for granted. And we all need a way out of this force, out of this tribulation. So, what do we do now? If I understand the constitutional court correctly, it tells us that the so-called technical law is a appendix. Well, it's unnecessary. But if I'm using this comparison, it's very painful. We have acute inflammation of this appendix and the proposal of the signatories is to stage a referendum on this, to decide whether or not to cut off this appendix. I don't think we need a referendum to perform appendix surgery. If the diagnosis of the Constitutional Court is correct and it speaks of this technical law being unnecessary and incomplete, then let us address the substance of the problem. Or it's a referendum of some kind of anesthesia that I won't say drugs. But who would now want to blind themselves with this referendum to make it less painful? Is that an anesthesia for citizens? Citizens have made their views clear, and there is no need to quote Dr. Toš now, anyone else; the prevailing view is that people oppose it, and we do not need a referendum in this regard to find out. We just don't have to do this. Who needs this anesthesia? We're in the National Assembly. We know one mandate, two mandates, three mandates. No one between us can afford to look at each other in the eye, and to say so. We can do this in a plenary session, but between us, between us sitting here today, I think it's a common realization that we don't need this referendum to find a way out. Because after the referendum, we'll be at the same point where we are today. We still won't have a way out. Does the department need this referendum? I don't think that was a clear statement. Then who needs this referendum? I say again, I don't need it, and I'm sure the citizens would be most grateful if we had 15 days reserved for skiing, but it doesn't matter whether it's alpine, whether it's a race, whether it's a biathlon, or whatever they're doing. But let's please leave them untouched for one weekend, not force them into a referendum on things they don't know what they're going to decide, and then everyone will be furious about why they decided if no one takes it into account. For the Constitutional Court has already told us that we do not need to take this into account, but it has commanded us to find a way out of the tribulation in which we are in trouble. It was said, the signatories say we're afraid of the referendum. I'll go to the referendum myself if he does, because as a Member, I can't afford to miss the referendum. But really, no one in this room in my opinion is afraid of the referendum. What I think is a problem and we should talk about it a little bit more is three things. The first is the question of costs. And in advance, I'm asking you not to accuse me of demagogy. 600 million tolars, or what such a referendum costs, is in euros because we are entering the euro and we would like to introduce it as our currency of 2 and a half million euros. I'd rather see if we can get this 600 million in Iran for the victims of the earthquake than to mess around here in this way, if that's possible. Of course, this is not possible because we do not have the money reserved for the earthquake or for the victims of the earthquake. However, there is still enough room for manoeuvre within the government if we do not stage the referendum, we find funds and direct them for some humanitarian purpose. And I think that people would definitely support us in such efforts. The second is the question, in particular, addressed to those who are looking at us in these discussions, what they are thinking about our meditation or lemming, as we call it, all day long. It seems to me that there have been some rather hard words here, and some of these hard words, of course, do not contribute to a rational approach or to calming down the situation, but, above all, to an emotional approach. Something that we used to say that those who sow hatred would then end up wanting a storm. I do not think it is necessary to further encourage the review of Slovenians and Slovenes and Slovenes and Slovenes to count among themselves in these days, but to determine who is a good enough citizen of this country, who may have the idea of suing this country and thereby preparing me as a taxpayer to pay him something he is not entitled to. We've been listening to some compensation story all the time. Every citizen of this country has the right to a civil suit and can challenge anything he wants. Therefore, the stories of these compensations are completely irrelevant or, as the young generation would say, it is "fully over". Anyone who decides will make a decision. If someone, a father or an uncle who is present has not decided to sue the Slovenian state, thank God, we have saved some money and this is his civil position. But this cannot be an argument that we point to someone who has not yet shown this interest and has not brought an action, and we brand it as a potential prosecutor against the Slovenian state. This can always happen. And if someone doesn't do it here, he'll be able to go before the European Court and he'll be exercising his rights there in the future if he thinks his rights have been violated. Therefore, it seems to me that this issue of compensation is a harmful issue and that it has nothing to do with the ‘mild connection’ with the referendum, which you want to discuss and then decide. That's why I think - and now I'm going to go back to the starting point and then I'm going to conclude - that some of the exits are possible. The first move must be made by the minister or government. And I would expect at least a statement of regret for all the hardship and embarrassment that we've all fallen into together. Another option you have here is, 30 of you, I apologize for having to name only those who are signed, not those who are not signed, but if any of you change your mind, of course, allow us to start looking for a political compromise within the coalition, between the coalition and the opposition, between the national assembly and the government, and find a way to resolve this issue in the long run. That's an opportunity, too. And there's always a third option, I won't say the third time, the third time it's gone. Third option, I don't know about this third option, but if any of you know about this third option, please give us before the vote this third option to order, to present it, and to get us to this third option to avoid this madness, this cost and this embarrassment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Thank you, Comrade Jelko Kancin. Anton Anderlich, probably procedurally? Later. We continue the debate. Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca has the floor. And the rest of you, I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u82	I am not the only one who, in this national assembly and today, think that we are in a very schizophrenic situation, that is to say a fragmented situation - those we consider and who are also reading the verdict correctly; that on the one hand we are suppressed in the role of those who are supposed to support the decree - and this imposes on us a constitution that speaks of the fact that the National Assembly has to call a referendum. At the same time, we all know, at least those who think soberly that this referendum is null and void, and here is schizophrenicism in a situation in which I also feel quite uncomfortable and deeply disturbed by the thought of embezzling this vote in terms of support. Because I wonder what will happen either on February 22, or February 15, or February, or what date, if any, the referendum will take place and when people who are not underestimated are asked what is going on. Why and what they should decide if, in fact, decisions were to be issued at that time, I also assume this situation could be today if they were not already by 16 June. I wonder what people will say, what should we decide if he is a legitimate decision-maker and not just one, but several times if we have already decided and defined ourselves. And in the end, it will also be entirely self-evident and normal to hear the voice of February when it says, "Why should I decide if our voice is completely void, if it has no weight, if it has no power, and if it is irrelevant and has no influence? If only some survey about the state of the spirit in Slovenia is possible?" And I think that, as part of these formal questions, procedural questions, legal issues, form issues are increasingly forgotten the essence of the issue, which has been raised since the moment of this national assembly and elsewhere, many times. Because I think that the issue of the deleted is the question of the hidden rumor that they are true and that all different and legal "instraints" - obstacles in the nods - are only symptoms for something that is actually happening forever and will be so much more so in the future when people who have been deprived of their rights are able to build political foreplay, play or even pre-election games. Symptom of what? It is a symptom of Slovenian intolerance, a symptom of Slovenian phobia, selectivity, self-sufficiency, intolerance and certainly xenophobia. After all, today the labels have been restored, which have already been issued at the last session and range from those who have bloody hands to those who do not need, need not and do not want them. And here's the story, I mean, at the core of things is the most brilliant. It is not just this case, but other cases in the current political constants - I can only mention the timing of the nearest is the construction of the mosque, but it is a case where the form is used as a convenient obstacle to non-compliance with constitutional and human rights. And it's an indirect rumor, let's face it, which, as it were, is covered in intolerance. For the non-recognition of the second and even for the use of beautiful cellophane paper, if I quote one or so of the 27th signatory, who I hope will have to put and offer answers elsewhere, not only in this national council, which says, "I am acting as a Democrat, so I supported the referendum." In short, on 22 February it should be answered by the 30 Members who signed. Responsibility is not questionable, responsibility is not questionable here, and I understood Jelka Kacin to use only a rhetorical question when asked about it. Indeed, and this is undoubtedly the fact that responsibility has already been established since 16 June 2003 and not only today at the end of the last day of the year. For I believe that any delay, which in some way is a referendum, means the continuation of the anti-constitutional situation. However, I certainly hope that the government or the ministry will, if not already yesterday or tomorrow, begin to issue and apply that procedure, which this time is recognised as legitimate, that it will no longer question and that it will issue decisions in the manner that has been said, but not as it has been introduced in the meantime.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. My friend Tuck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. A lot of awkward and interesting words were heard throughout today. I have to say that this debate is useful, necessary, but it saddens me a little, because there are always certain insinuations, some instigation, some lies and the like. I hope I don't fall into that kind of talk myself. However, my predecessor, Mr Kacin, mentioned or expressed his position that the Constitutional Court ruling was not actually being commented on. Let me have it, or let me have it, and I'll have it. I don't think the Constitutional Court will be very offended about this either. Look. You know that, or the National Assembly has voted an initiative, the role of the Constitutional Court to assess the constitutionality of the proposal for a referendum. And, of course, Mr Ribičič received this proposal in his hands, in his consideration, then asked the proponents, the signatories, what they thought of this initiative, then asked the National Assembly what he thought of the initiators' response, and then we waited for an answer. I was convinced that, given that the application was delayed, that we had missed the time frame, that little Mr Ribičič would find out and reply with one sentence that we had just missed and would not comment, there was nothing to comment on. Well, we actually got the answer, after one week, that the Constitutional Court received the request too late and therefore rejected the request. But once again not only one sentence, again there are 10 pages of explanations and this was not only written by Mr. Ribičič, here the matter was dealt with by the Constitutional Court very thoroughly, it was voted, namely by a vote of 4:2. Even the President of the Constitutional Court issued a separate opinion. I don't know whether they refused to discuss it or not, and I can conclude from this that it has been dealt with very thoroughly and also all the questions have been answered in very detail, to all the questions raised by the National Assembly. You know, it's just like that Depala village trial where the defendants were acquitted, but they were convicted 10 times in explanation, and it's all described in detail about their crimes. This seems to me to be an unfair attitude toward the work that the Constitutional Court is supposed to be doing. I believe that in some matters, the Constitutional Court, this is my personal assessment, is really out of line. Why am I bringing this up? Because you will probably all agree that the Constitutional Court in those areas where it is empowered to decide must be respected without discussion. However, if it extends to other areas where the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act do not have the final word, it is possible to comment, correct, supplement. The case of acute appendicitis was mentioned. I'd say that's a very interesting case. Imagine that someone, for example, had an acute appendix, which had not yet been spilled and lasted another week, the pain increased and so on, and due to poor care there was perforation, spillage, abscess and so on, and instead he was three months in the hospital and so on. And he complained about poor care and demanded, say, a constitutional court to determine whether he had been provided as he should have been. And the Constitutional Court would not only say that every citizen and this one has the right to sound health care, to adequate health care. And if this is not in the Health Act, this law needs to be corrected. No, but the Constitutional Court would say, say, all patients should get the antibiotics immediately and everyone should take the appendix. Yeah, I wouldn't respect a decision like that as a doctor. I wouldn't, I'd laugh and I'd say if they went crazy. With regard to deleted, the Constitutional Court merely said that the legislator could change the way in which enforcement was carried out by law. That's right, you'll admit that. And even with regard to deleted, the Constitutional Court must draw attention to errors, but it must also, under Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act, in the event that the enforcement of this provision is specifically determined, do so in extremely rare cases, in extreme cases, and even then the legislator may change the way in which enforcement is carried out. And so it was conceived by this law. And that is why we have never opposed the law's enforcement of a constitutional decision, never. Of course, we objected only to how, just how. And so do we. I personally believe that there is a need for a legal basis in such an important matter. And I think you have a statement from eminent lawyers who speak [[I'll quote]] Thus: "In accordance with the explicit provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the undisputed position of the legal theory, the Constitutional Court is a so-called negative legislator, which means that if the laws are found to be inconsistent with the Constitution, they can be repealed." The task of someone else is to adopt a different marriage, a better marriage that will eliminate these things. These experts continue to say: "It does not seem constitutionally correct that the Constitutional Court's decision constitutes a direct basis for the issuance of administrative decisions, as it also does not comply with the principle of the division of power referred to in Article 3 of the Constitution." They continue to say: "The Ministry of the Interior cannot, on the basis of the laws now in force, issue supplementary decisions as laid down in paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision." And so on. "In view of the unclear legal situation, it is therefore certainly appropriate and necessary for this state of the state to regulate the law, whether the implementation of the 8th point should be regulated in a specific law or in a single law" - I am talking about the system law - "together with the enforcement of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 is a question of practical nomotechnics." Signed under this statement, personally signed Professor Dr. Gorazd Trpin, Professor Doctor Albin Igličar, Professor Doctor Miro Cerar, Professor Dr. Igor Kavčič, Professor Dr. Tone Jerovšek, Professor Doctor Franz Bučar, Professor Dr. Mitja Žagar and Professor Doctor Franci Grad. Gentlemen, there are different views, the Constitutional Court is thinking differently. We believe that this position has a greater weight after gravity, but certainly we can have the right to comment, to correct, to supplement, on those matters where the Constitutional Court is going down in areas other than its, eminent, existential areas. And that's why we're responsible here in the National Assembly. Like I said, we were never against the law. We're for the law. And that is why we have also taken this very seriously and, of course, we have first protested the reduced procedure, because this has obviously been forced, in total contravention of the Rules of Procedure, which does not allow a reduced procedure for the new law, but provides for a regular procedure, that is to say, where there is a much broader possibility of amendment, correction, complementarity - and then those unfortunate withdrawals of our amendments have occurred. There were only two areas that we wanted to complement, namely, that there was a need to check for permanent residence where there was no verification. And, gentlemen, you know for yourself that not all the cases that this law was supposed to handle were verified. The permanent residence was not checked everywhere. It was not checked during that period, for example, from 1991 to 1994 or anything like that. For the law did not require it, neither did the administrative unit have any basis for checking the permanent residence at that time. Those people were then given a certificate of permanent residence, but that residence was not checked back. And anyone who says it's been checked in all cases is easier. He's lying! And we asked only in these cases, where it was not verified, to check, just because we did not come into a ridiculous situation to issue a decision to someone who lived permanently, but in fact lived for three years and participated in Srebrenica, and then he might go to the Hague court, and there he would wave with our Slovenian decision, see, and I have a decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that I lived permanently in Slovenia. Gentlemen, this is ridiculous! And we don't understand here and now we don't understand why you didn't accept this amendment, why you didn't allow verification in these cases; we don't understand what it is. We are not talking about the fact that those who have been in Slovenia constantly, that all rights arising from permanent residence must be regulated. But why not check those cases that have never been checked before? The second amendment, tabled by the Slovenian National Party and supported by us, solved the problem of compensation. This is another very important question. You all know from Mr Mladen Baladan's newspapers - I don't know if Baladan or Baladan, I don't know how he stresses it - the president of the deleterious society in Koroška, who demands it, so I read in the newspaper and never was denied, 227 million tolars of compensation. Gentlemen, if this sum is not regulated in any way, if we have only a thousand Ballads, it means that 50,000 employees in Slovenia will have to collect the entire income for ten years - you have heard right! - 50,000 employees ten years of income for these thousands of Ballads. Please, these are the things that should be taken into account in the debate on this amendment. You say that this decision of the Constitutional Court is not the basis for compensation claims. It is clear from the explanation of the Constitutional Court that by means of this decision, which they will receive - whether they have asked or not, whether it will be verified or not - which they will receive, by means of this Decision and on the basis of this Decision, they will be able to lodge compensation claims in the courts on the basis of this Decision. And of course don't talk, please don't talk about 600 million for the referendum, you better talk and understand some other problem. I believe that this country could not even pay a thousand Ballads, could not, but we have another reserve. The country is still so present in companies, institutions and real estate that a set of certificates can be issued from this title and thus paid out. And we'll get another completely different, non-Slovenian lobby of capital again. Maybe it's in the background, I don't know, I don't know why you couldn't accept this amendment as the last one. You say, and of course you're urging us to withdraw the signatures. This initiative given by Mr Kacin is, of course, demagogous, may be intended for the public to say before the public that it is impossible for the train to have taken off long ago, even if they had now concluded otherwise, nothing would have changed, the Rules of Procedure - I hope that it still applies - but it was time, it was time to avoid a referendum on both amendments if they were accepted. It was time for the state council to veto and we thought again about this law and we could say, "Listen, this law is bad, let us withdraw it, not confirm it again." And in one week, we could have a complementary marriage, which was the time. Now, unfortunately, it's too late; it's too late to ring the hail. I don't know if you'll ever learn that the opposition has any good suggestions, that someone else needs to be listened to, not just good. As regards this law, whether it is necessary or not, we have already heard whether it is unacceptable, this will be a question for the referendum. That it is unacceptable is, I think, very clear also from what Mr Minister said, very clearly, if the law is to be, I quote: "If the law is rejected, the circle of beneficiaries will increase significantly." Well, Mr. Lavrinz is sneezing. What does that mean? This means that one or the other does not cover all beneficiaries, so it is said to be unconstitutional, part of two categories of beneficiaries. Secondly, whether it is envisaged that the implementation of the Constitutional Decision would also include other non-beneficiary beneficiaries and we believe that this is in the background. I therefore believe that it is necessary here to implement a constitutional decision but to insist on the law in order to do so after the adoption of the relevant law. We see here a very good opportunity, before us is a system law and we think that if a handful of good will is in the government coalition, then a government law will be carried out, as is "sharp" so that the injustices will be corrected, but they will be corrected only to those who are entitled to correction. That's all. However, I would ask, gentlemen - and of course some Members, because there are few, but they are giving or throwing a bad light on the entire group of Members - that you, the individual Members and Mr Hanžk, should, because we may be a little more concerned about this country, about justice in this country, not bother us with Nazis, xenophobia and so on. I think there's been a lot of intolerance in this story, too, but not on our side, gentlemen, not on our side! And I hope that you will be a little more correct and able to listen to others. However, I fear that the media will, of course, shed a great deal of light on today's debate again, commenting on many things. Just one comment from Del about last night's college meeting. This is what the respected journalist, who was present at the college, apparently sat on one or both ears. He quoted me, of course, so I can go into this because I know what I said, he says: "SDS insists, among other things, that each of the four to five thousand deleted that this law covers should re-check whether they have lived in Slovenia ever since they were deleted." First of all, I never said we should check again, but check only those and only for a time when they weren't checked. And similarly, we will listen again and again, some entirely different motives will prompt us, as we do now in the debate, and those motives will be the media - know which - to sum up and now to the referendum we will hear about the 600 million that we will lose, the nonsense of this referendum, the terrible injustices that are happening to these people and so on. We're used to it, but I hope he's holding up what was said to be an electoral campaign back here. But, gentlemen, you say there's an electoral campaign in the back. This campaign has been going on for years, but the campaign is about people seeing your mistakes. We need campaigns, we just want voters to see mistakes, it's a campaign for election, nothing else. To see the mistakes of the ruling coalition. I hope this will be a successful electoral campaign without our involvement and funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to my colleague, I just want to clear up one thing so that there will be no later complications in the process itself. Madam Vice-President said we would vote 15 minutes after the discussion. I would like to find out whether we will vote immediately after the debate or not, so that there is no evidence. Excuse me? Is it a deal that I can give you 15 minutes off? 15 minutes after the last one, please, mate, I want to clear up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u86	This is an extraordinary meeting, there was no pre-planned timetable, you did not foresee a recess or when the vote would take place, so as with all items on the agenda following the urgent procedure, and even if this is an extraordinary meeting, it shall be voted immediately after the last debate. And I ask that this time too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u87	I want to make it clear now that there would be no misunderstandings later. Please. Look, we've got one, two, three, four, five, six debaters. It's early enough to adopt this procedural rule. The vice president said it was an objection. They believe that it is necessary to move to a vote immediately after this. Please, that's not a problem. Please, Comrade Lavrinc, you still wanted a word on this. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Yeah. [[...]] Also a colleague of Lavrinz's. Well, after having objected to this proposal to vote for 15 minutes after the last debater, I ask all colleagues and colleagues, as well as the secretaries of the parliamentary groups, to inform colleagues who are not present now that we will decide directly after the last debater. Please, buddy Pukšič. I want to make it clear that there will be no misunderstandings. Just about that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Just about that. Mr President, you have proposed 15 minutes, i.e. after the last debater, that there should be a vote. Mr Anderlič, however, opposes this, but some of us, of course, oppose what Mr Anderlič advocates. So there is no reason for us to meet today at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and it will take place as long as the debates will take place - no reason, no reason, no reason, if not 15 minutes, but at least 10 minutes after the last debater, would come to the vote. No reason. If not, put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u89	My friend Anderlich. I want to make it clear that it will be enough to continue to be known and clear when we will decide. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u90	Well, of course I think this complication is completely unnecessary, because I don't know who invented it. We have a Rules of Procedure, which is clear, we have a convened meeting, which is regular under this Rules of Procedure, and I do not see any need for objections, not objections and so on. It is surprising, however, that you have not announced before the meeting, that the meeting will last from ten to one, and if it lasts even longer, it will be a lunch break, as always in meetings where we do not have a vote in advance, and after the last debater's vote. This is according to the rules of procedure, so it is in extraordinary sessions and I do not see any need for anyone to object. Stick to the rules of procedure. If you're not sure what it says in there, we can vote. But it's in the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Look, I don't want any new complications about when and how we're gonna decide. I would therefore like to make it clear in advance that the National Assembly will be able to express its will. I don't want us to get into a situation where I want to order a break, but someone would like to make a procedural proposal that we vote now. We need to clear this up first. Because then I could put such a proposal to the vote. Thus, after the last debate, the State Assembly will proceed to the vote. I report this and ask all my colleagues and colleagues to take this into account in their actions. After the end of the last debater or debater, I will put it to the vote. Comrade Skull, you have the floor to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. These procedural complications, as well as all these debates, show a situation that will take place from now on until 15 or 22 February, if this decision is adopted - on a different scale, but with similar arguments. It is likely that anyone else who does not have the opportunity to directly argue his views in the National Assembly will be able to be involved in this debate, while in all other cases it is predictable. It will be an accusation against political opponents, who did something and when did something wrong, and it will be a complaint against foreigners who do not have a regulated status of permanent residence. This is the framework set out today by a decree drawn up by the Committee on Internal Policy. Of course, other solutions to this situation would also be possible if, even at this point, I refer to Mr Tsukati's performance in this regard - if these outputs were indeed sought together. Finally, even Minister Bohinc somehow saw after the Constitutional Court had decided several times that it was possible to issue decisions directly on the basis of law. In this sense, the responsibility for the complications that arise in relation to the law that we are now deciding is only going to a greater extent, in my opinion, to the government than to the opposition side. So much honesty is needed in this discussion of these complications. But I don't know if this honesty helps anything to make things different. In my own reasoning, I assume, of course, that certain supplementary decisions can already be issued on decisions issued in those years in accordance with the legislation in force at that time and in accordance with the so-called 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision. What is asked as a question is whether there is agreement on this in the entire spectrum of political forces, so that these supplementary decisions can be issued in a manner that the Constitutional Court has imposed. I am afraid not, and in this sense this debate is merely hypothetical, as will my opinion on what to do with this decision. In view of the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which, I will say, is flawed at least in something that she did not send to the reading class, because it would be necessary, because the things they write here have already been written down, and I would not name them, because it is known who was most obliged to read this decision, that I myself will oppose this decision and will not support it. I will not support it for reasons similar to, I will say, a part of the Members proposes this decision for a referendum decision. I believe that this is indeed an eminent political issue at this time, how to do it, and that, in the first place, the National Assembly is called upon to resolve the political issue. If the National Assembly somehow abdicates that it solves this, it already says that it is unable to resolve some key issues. In this sense, of course, I am surprised at my own, I will tell my client colleagues that they have let themselves be caught in this trap, that, I will say, legitimize this debate about the possibility of transferring this matter to a referendum decision which should have no consequences, because certain things need to be done already, as the Constitutional Court has written. This is probably true if it is a strict legal issue that it will not be possible to avoid for at least a few more time - or for the honour of this Constitutional Court - that these status issues be settled as they have been written several times. But, look, here we refer to the fact that the referendum is a kind of, I'll say, a completely untouchable instrument and as a rule everyone refers to the article where it is said that the power - the constitution, that there will be no misunderstanding - has power in the Republic of Slovenia people. This article does not speak of referendums, of course, but speaks of how this is done. Look, the referendum is one of these instruments, of course, I will not descend on, I will say, a pretty slippery floor around how it can be understood, but the authority of the people in Slovenia is generally executed over, I will say, direct elections that lead to the result that we are witnessing to him at this moment and that we will be in periodic periods, I hope, at least as long as the English are on their soil. In this sense - if we are talking about the dignity and dignity of this national assembly - it is almost necessary, in my opinion, to reject such a postponement and to hold such a discussion, which goes beyond these frameworks, in the context of the disputes brought by the higher-ranking State Assembly and other institutions, who, unless they agree, have been judged; either this is an administrative court or, at some point, a constitutional court. But if this needs to be resolved through political instruments, then such advice from the Constitutional Court can only be read in a way that must be cut off in the National Assembly. I don't expect this from the government, and the government can't really do this any different than it can through a change of law in the National Assembly. There are, of course, possibilities. Look, if we take a hypothetical situation where a lot of hairs will go after the end, let's say that there are 30 Members to prepare a law that would in some article for a certain crime, let's say - predict a death penalty. And they would take this thing so far as to have signatures and require a referendum statement on the subject. Of course, if we were not to delay or anticipate the situation in order to delay the deadline and that the Constitutional Court, which is not so precise in its time frame, because we know that this matter has been decided over for years and years, but this is the question of hours and perhaps it is right that it has been put so strictly; I am not judging, but if we assume these two situations, then we would have carried out a referendum in which the pride of some heinous crime under the impression that all citizens and citizens would be in a position to vote. At the next moment, it would appear that this is contrary to an explicit article of the Constitution. And we would be excited to be angry about whether the constitution is more than a referendum will and so on. However, there are a number of situations where the referendum as a decision-making instrument, in my opinion, cancels and this is one of those situations where it cancels, because there has already been a law on this subject, which later proved to be disputed in this void that it was constructed at the time, and the subsequent amendments to the law that they regulated have proven to be flawed again, and from this point of view the matter has come so far that we are actually deciding on something that has already been wrongly decided several times in the National Assembly and has experienced its epilogue in the Constitutional Court. It is true that we are not putting to the referendum the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision, but the so-called technical law that I now hope you understand that it is not as technical as I protested at the outset, but that this term is still gravely misleading and has drawn us into a situation from which it will be very difficult to come out. This term "technically" is that no misunderstanding will be constructed by Minister Bohinc. Maybe because the Minister of Technology was his time, and he didn't notice this leap, but anyway, these things have a deep content, they deceive, and they hide things that, in my opinion, go very far back as my colleague Peterle here said, and that require dignity, dignity and accounting. It won't be difficult as far as the procedures of the past few years are concerned. Of course, it saddens me that it is not possible to know in all this time how it came about in that ancient year and what we are saving today. The only thing that will be the possible referendum debate that I do not want, of course, but I do not expect the National Assembly to reject it, bring it, is that it will also have to be accounted for. In this sense, it will be a dirty laundry, but given that we are all talking about dignity, I don't think it's going to be too hard for us to do this. From my point of view, it is not difficult for me to criticize my colleagues who have fallen into this naive trap that this potential referendum will bring, because, look, the situation that might happen is ridiculous in any case. If this law is confirmed, then those who took him to the referendum will not experience their satisfaction, but those who proposed it have already said that they do not need it to do the same. I am not talking now about these two months of debate that will show up and about the money that has been mentioned so many times today. But anyway, from the point of view of the marriage proposalr, this, I'm going to say, has been recognized as a misjudgment. If the marriage comes to pass that it will not be confirmed, then, of course, it will not be any easier for the Minister of Bohinc, who fears his own shadow. Because it will be very difficult to refer to what is stated in these Constitutional Court decisions, and also to all those who are proposing this law, it will be drawn to the language, to the ears and to something else that these decisions must not be issued. Regardless of his promise, he will do so and, of course, the constitutional order expects him to do so. Something else is going to happen. That there will be some conflict between the referendum will and the constitutional decision already taken or the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is what Mrs Wedamov is talking about in her separate opinion, which is worth reading, even for needs, I will say, the National Assembly, not only as Professor Brejc spoke here, for the purposes of the study process of lawyers and administrators, who have brought together the situation in which we are today, because in fact there is a circle back. This is a matter to be decided by the National Assembly. At the moment when he takes it back with some manoeuvres to the Constitutional Court, which he has already stated several times, to the referendum will, where it will not be possible to hold such discussions as we have been leading here for months, it means that we have agreed that we are only partially capable of doing the job. These are the things worth weighing in this decision. In this sense, I do not think it is just a small change when we are talking about another 18,000 and so many fates or, in this case, 4,000 and so on, but it is also in fact a key issue of the functioning of the system. And from this point of view, at least as I understand these matters, the only possible way to reject this is to try to get into a situation where we can also repeal this law, which, as we all have found, is now slowly unnecessary. If he is not ambushed by other procedures, it is likely that this can be done at this time. Then a new debate is opened on the remainder of the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u93	My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, I read once that we, I think Dr. Riesman wrote about it -- we're becoming world recorders in referenda. On average, if we look further from our country's existence, the fact is that we go beyond the average of the referendums per year or during a period of existence like Switzerland itself. I am increasingly seeing that the referendum, as it is, is becoming some sort of correction of the poor result of the opposition in recent elections. But I don't want to talk about it right now. Nor do I want to take advantage of those who opposed Slovenia's independence at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers and taxpayers. Many flights mainly to LDS as a client who has been leading governments since 1992. However, it cannot be forgotten that I have not been a Member since then, but I have some historical memory that the governments that followed in 1991 have been quite diverse, politically diverse. There they were both SDS and SLS and had all the repressive authorities, both the judiciary and the Ministry of the Interior, as well as the Ministry of Defence, which had the data of the people in the right places, who could be those people you say would be taking advantage of today and would probably not be given what you predict they would be - but they are not. And I won't be looking for reasons why. Today, of course, we are faced with solutions and are looking for solutions to correct the mistakes of this coalition, not to correct the mistake made in 1992 in the congregation, which was pointed out by certain political parties in that call, that a mistake is being made and that it is likely to cost Slovenia something else. It means that today we are going to explain that we are going to fix and that people at the referendum have to decide whether we are going to correct these injustices or not is, of course, depressed. I am also talking about this, or I would like to respond mainly to the opposition's colleagues who, of course, are discussing and questioning whether the Constitutional Court went beyond its powers. I think it would be worth reading what Mrs Dragica Lukič wrote down, namely that the Constitutional Court actually acts as a temporary positive legislator in determining the way in which enforcement is carried out. However, it has the express power to do so in the second paragraph of Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act. Under that provision, the Constitutional Court, if necessary, shall determine which body must carry out its decision in what way. Look, Mr. Tsukjat said earlier that doctors are, of course, a different position. I can also agree, and I can accept this fact, but it is not against the weight of the Constitutional Court, including 1,000 graduates and doctors, lawyers, who cannot counter the Constitutional Court as an institutionalised legal category in Slovenia. When these gentlemen are constitutional judges, some re-constitutional judges are likely to judge, perhaps differently, according to the ethical origin or ethics they themselves cultivate. And that warning. Some of those whom Mr Tsukati appointed - formerly those who gave this legal position - also gave a legal position on how the deadlines for assessing the possible referendum in the Constitutional Court were going on and, of course, led this into such water that we missed our hands. I think that one of the things that I think in today's debate is still a terrible signal from the SDS President here in this assembly. And that's the signal he gave to the government. He said, I think I'll quote, "The new government will revise and prosecute those who would betray them." It means that it will prosecute state officials who will issue decisions in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. I think this is an eclectic display and proof of the democratic hygiene of certain political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u95	There's no pucks. Yes, it is. My friend Pukšič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not written off, but I'm still here. I'm going to start with what there was some talk about today, and yet, from October 14th of this year. If then those of you who have a majority in this national assembly would listen and heed, then we would not be facing this problem here today in the national assembly, not for the last time, but things would be going as normal as they would have been in a normal legal, democratic country. Obviously, we are not yet at this stage, because it is clearly not enough for thirteen years to mature to that extent, to know when to listen, not just to use the position of power and then to act on the basis of the position of power. I hope that such a meeting, as well as a few repetitions of something, will help to make things better over the years. See, on 14 October 2003, the Slovenian Democratic Party tabled an amendment, which reads as follows: "The fourth paragraph of Article 2 of the Law on the Enforcement of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Slovenia, the figure" and so on, "is amended to read: 'The administrative unit shall, before issuing the decision, carry out a procedure to determine the actual state of residence for the period from 26.2.1992 to obtaining a permanent residence permit. In the procedure it shall determine whether the alien referred to in the preceding paragraph has actually resided during that period.' This was an amendment that solved all complications and doubts about whether or not it was necessary or unnecessary, without law or directly by a decision of the Constitutional Court and so on. Of course, I am also sure, like many or I share an opinion with those who know or explain that the Constitutional Court's decision must be enforced by law, not directly; otherwise, we would not need Parliament, but the Constitutional Court would somehow assume the role of legislator. Well, but, look, today during the debate it was said - Mrs Majda Širca has clearly defined categorically - that the question of liability for costs, for the referendum and so on is known, so those responsible are known. This is the 30 Members who signed the request for a referendum. That's not true. The correct statement is that those Members who voted against such an amendment are responsible for this referendum. Well, and of course I'm sure - I don't have a copy right now, but I'm pretty sure if there was someone who voted for this amendment, I apologize in advance - that most of the Members of the Liberal Democracy and the United List or I'll say, as Kacin mentioned earlier, a coalition without the opposition under b, so I didn't vote for such an amendment. Well, the responsibility is on the part of these Members, who have neither supported nor supported such an amendment. In explanation of this amendment, which is very clear in the three lines, why it is necessary to make this amendment, in order to determine whether a foreigner has actually resided in the Republic of Slovenia or not during this period. Of course, the nationality of a country is not a human right, but it is a status that the state acquires in an international arena. If you are a citizen of this country, then of course you, as a citizen, as an individual, have this right. But if you are a citizen of another country, which is limited to movement in just a few streets and cities, even under police and military escorts, then you are a citizen of such a country. And that's your right if you're a citizen in a country like this. However, if you have defined yourself or obtained the right of one country - what would, of course, today those who did not cheer for a single state in 1990 for Slovenia, but who have flirted with a large Serbian state, with Belgrade, should have this status. It's their right. And if that's how they decided to do it, so be it. All those who have made a different decision and acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, have this right. This right from 1 May means: with the passport of the Republic of Slovenia anywhere in the European Union to travel without any review, control or so on, because we will be equal members of a larger family. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary, of course, to determine the actual situation of those who have decided differently, perhaps at some point have changed their minds and, during the time they left Slovenia, have left, have returned, but it is necessary to find out what they were doing during this time in the world, in the area where they were working. Are they among those on the killer lists, then, of course, such ones cannot gain the status of the Slovenian State and there is no reason for the Republic of Slovenia to give them such decisions on Slovenian citizenship if they did not stay here at that time, but were elsewhere and were doing something completely different.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Please, on my right, that Mr Pukšič has a debate and that we are not interrupting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u98	I have a word, or it's true it sounds bad, but I'll hold out, no problem. [[...]] The ones you're talking about the costs of the referendum, they are. See, the ruling coalition, mainly the United List and Liberal Democracy have recently passed some laws - I think there were four or five - which, of course, did not receive confirmation from the Slovenes and Slovenes. You've always talked about the costs, who's responsible for these costs and so on. However, it has always turned out that Slovenians and Slovenians have made a different choice than your thesis was expressed in marriage. In short, it turns out that such authority does not reflect the actual state of Slovenia and the Slovenians in that country. Therefore, the outcome of these referendums has always been positive or negative for the proposing of such legislation. And even in this case, when you talk about these costs, of course these numbers can be commented on in one way or another. After what, of course, was heard a month and a half ago about these costs, and some even talked about the 500 billion that the Vice-President should have, who has the floor? [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Colleagues, we only have one session in this room. Can we move on? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. So, these costs, when some talked about 500 billion, are about one third of the national annual budget. Imagine how to turn or rotate relationships in another area if, of course, such a large amount of capital came into the hands of some individuals. If we compare this with the 500 million that are needed, you say, for the referendum, if this 500 million is already rounded in any way within the citizens and citizens of this country, so do not go out, do not go out, in fact we can find that the relationship between this, or we have a referendum with possible costs resulting from such a law a ratio of 1:1000 or 1000 referendums on average. If we have five of them every year, it means that citizens and citizens of this country can make five decisions a year, 200 years and spend that money. These are, of course, quite large numbers. On the other hand, just remember the budgetary debate, where there were no billions and a few tolars for investments in municipalities. Or those who talk about these 500 million costs for the referendum, that is about as much as 25 members of the Liberal Democracy use for the election campaign, or three times less than the cost of the Liberal Democracy electoral campaign, according to known data and newspaper records. Those who say that harm has been done to someone, so that they do not report that they have not fulfilled what the law has given them - will not hold back. Because today, if you forget to extend your driver's license just for a few hours or a day, of course, you get a fine of 90,000 dollars, and no one will get it, so if you do not get it, or if you don't extend it, you won't have it, and without a driver's license - so the rights you've gained, and because you didn't comply with some of the legal regulations, it's got to do with it. I will not let myself go into how wide the Constitutional Court has written down its explanation. But the fact is that some constitutional judges would just like to make the whole country's policy from that institution; they don't know that there are three branches of power or they don't want to be aware, but that's more their problem. However, I will certainly get my hands on the so-called profession that this Parliament has. Above this profession, I believe that the President of the National Assembly will also picture himself if, of course, he does not take responsibility for himself. However, you know, with the deadlines that this section explained to the President of the National Assembly that night, also the President of the National Assembly, when he presided over the meeting - I think it was around 11 p.m. - he explained: nothing serious, whenever the debate ends, we will not miss any deadlines. This is about as bad as it was when Mr Šubic did not write the judgment for nine months. It was no big deal, really, it was no big deal, but the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia just cost it, that we lost Elan, that they lost jobs, that, of course, they bought Elan back from the budget, and that, of course, they are now paying the procurators who have secret contracts, which I firmly believe are contrary to the legislation in force. In short, it's about a profession that has a lot of explaining how it can't happen oh and nothing at all, because that's how it's understood, and that's how we're going to explain it. Or, in our own words, we will explain ourselves in a way that we can use at a given time. At one time, the so-called official letter was used to interpret the law, but another adjective was written in it, which was called "secret" - an official letter. It's gone now, so all these things come up on the plan, and it's good to get them out. Those colleagues who associated this with the elections today will, in fact, say: but you have triggered this debate on the elections of those who did not support our amendment. You know, when we're talking about sepsis, general poisoning, that means it's not good for this patient who's had sepsis. And I say, two nights before the coming new year, which is coming, but it is really good for this country that the United List and Liberal Democracy have received a sepsis, which is actually the best message for the Slovenian nation and the most beautiful gift coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Please, buddy Pukšič. Peace in the hall. Did I see right, Comrade Kacin, you wanted to replicate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I followed very closely the thoughts of Mr Francet Pukšič, who was chosen and gathered, but when I mentioned my name, I also found a thought that I simply cannot put into the historical context. He said, and now I'm going to quote, "someone who's on the killer list, for example, can't get citizenship." I was a member of the first government of Peterlet and then the first government of Drnovsk, about three years after I replaced the former minister of defense, but I never traced the list of murderers. If there is any document, I would like to ask my colleague Pukšič to hand it over immediately to the competent authorities, because, in this case, if I understand correctly, it is war crimes. You don't get old. And if he has ever seen or dreamed of such a list, I ask him to mediate it to the authorities. However, this is not an opportunity to link this to the referendum issue in any way. This is what we are discussing today. There is also one sentence on the list of murderers in the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u103	Please, buddy Pukšič. I suggest we not go too far in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Of course, it's Mr. Jelk Kacin's style. Yes, Mr Jelko Kacin, there is apparently a rather long list of murderers who are on the haze court. And if, of course, someone who will prove - and is on that list of murderers, I don't know - but would prove without our country checking where it was at that time, the same with the Slovenian passport, with Slovenian citizenship would not be good for this country. That is why the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed at the time, and I already said on 14 October an amendment whose members of the Liberal Democracy and the United Kingdom did not support it, so you are responsible, I have talked about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u105	Let's move on to the debate. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Your Honors are here! Allow the introduction of three short chapters. I would ask you, Mr President, on behalf of the Group of Members, to comply with the rules of play in this National Assembly and to consider the Members of the Slovenian National Party to be equivalent to the other nineties Members and to allow them to do so when they report to the floor, but not to allow them to report to the floor in six hours. The second thing I'd like to say today was the words about Nazis, xenophobics, impatiences. I would ask the author or the idea leader of such ideas, Mrs Shirco, or we are Nazis, xenophobics and impatiences solely because we want to hold a referendum. Are we impatient because we want people to have more than once every four years the right to decide a matter as important as that? No, I don't think we're excruciating, you are. Or even better, I think you're scared because you're afraid of people's decisions. And the third thing, Mr. Skolcz, was I didn't come forward with a replica because I knew it was my turn. True, the Liberal Democracy has been given a mandate to lead the country, but it has not been given the Liberal Democracy mandate to destroy the country. That is why we criticise the Slovenian National Party because we fear that your decisions by the Liberal Democracy and the Government in the area of finance, in the field of all others, including today's area, will unfortunately bury this country. And now to the content of today's point. In my opinion, everyone had the opportunity to ensure proper status. The fact is, 18,000 of them in our country didn't handle it that year. It is also important to ask why they have not settled this status. Following the debates held so far, mainly by the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, they advocated one thesis, namely that there were all 11,000 at that time of the analphabetes and they did not know what was going on and why they did not settle. On such a theory that they did not know that the independence of our country took place during that period, we cannot land in the National Party. We also find this theory of these three parties very funny. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the Citizenship Act of that period provided for that Slovenian citizenship to be given to anyone, only to apply for it and to fulfil one condition. This was that on 23.12.1990 he permanently resided in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. So these 18,000 people have not decided to apply for the status they wish to have today, in addition to, of course, financial resources. According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, they did not make a decision or, by general conviction, did not make a decision for three reasons in particular. First, because they did not believe in Slovenia alone, secondly because they did not want to have sovereign progress and thirdly because they were afraid of decay or were against the collapse of the Republic of Slovenia. But their reasons are not that important today. The fact is that they consciously decided that they did not want to have Slovenian citizenship and that it is right that the country at that time respected their will, of course. It is very unfair to say today that the Slovenian state has erased them. She didn't erase them. They just went from one record to another, which is perfectly normal. It is very reasonable to say here that this is our decision, i.e. the decision of the then Republic of Slovenia on this exchange of records, was welcomed both by the UN legal committee, as in the world of Europe, where it was indicated that Slovenia's own legislation in the set 91st, 92rd, 93rd, 94th and 95th were in line with European Union standards. So much for those who have always and only before the eyes of the European Union. Ten years later, in a period of perhaps today, the stories of the deleted were more or less public. It started in any way through Mr Krivica, who was the Constitutional Judge and the Rapporteur in the case and who kept the case in the drawer for four years. Only later, when he lost the status of Constitutional Judge, did he become the legal representative of the so-called Society of Deleted and, more importantly, a co-worker, a legal associate of the United Nations. He has taken the initiative in the Constitutional Court and has sought to ensure that the Constitutional Court sheds a dark light on the act of independence and would show some facts as injustices which, of course, we have not seen. At this point, of course, it would make sense if we were still the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia to ask ourselves in particular in the Republic of Slovenia: what if, in our country, a current constitutional judge in three, four years or ten years from now, when he is no longer in status, he established a society of the unemployed and challenged Article 49 of the Act on the Right to Work. Then how would Members react, who today rely so much on Mr Krivica's words? According to my assessment and in any way the right to work is enshrined in the Constitution, and we know that Slovenian citizens do not. I'm afraid they don't have it. And unfortunately, these state councilors are too few to have this right. How this national assembly, or next national assembly, will react, we know. If he continues the tradition of this, he will not grant them this right. The fact is that, 90 days ago or 60 days ago, in this National Assembly, it was within the Slovenian National Party's Group that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took over the authority of the Workers' Protection Act, which would lose the right to work relations due to entry into the EU, because it was precisely this national assembly that did not protect them sufficiently because you did not want to adopt a law on the adoption of the law on prevention and limitation of competition and similar things. To the National Assembly, to those Members who today defend the so-called human rights, namely the Liberal Democracy, the United List and DeSUS, you objected to even discussing this in this forum. I don't know how you're all going through so much together, let's say you're talking about human rights today, but if you're not prepared to talk about the rights of the Slovenians at all. But, of course, this ignorance is not unique to the refugees and to this very national council. The Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have resigned, and said, no, we do not want to have anything to do with such a law. In the Slovenian National Party, the most important statistics in favour of the words spoken now through me also speak to us, concerning the decisions of the Constitutional Court, that few people care about the decision of the Constitutional Court. 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court are pending. These 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court are binding on Slovenian citizens and citizens. But never, on either side, has neither the demand nor the desire, nor the desire, for such decisions of the Constitutional Court, some of them over 3 years old, the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have taken action or begun to enforce their content. The exclusive decision of the Constitutional Court, which was imposed on the Constitutional Court and where, according to our assessment, the Constitutional Court acted very unwisely, has become the motto of this year. So the story was unfortunately forced upon the opposition. I therefore stress once again, especially at these moments, that we cannot talk about a political story, because it is too important a substantive question that someone who is judged to be the truth can gather a political point in this area. In my opinion, it should go to each of us for some kind of personal conviction and not a diversion. My personal conviction is, and I regret or know that we are still in the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and should all of us, together in our decision, be guided solely by the same character, this is to create conditions for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, such conditions that our citizens can equally vehemently vehemently vehement in the context of the EU economy or EU society. Allow me to return to my original sin, the sin of the Constitutional Court. According to our assessment, the Constitutional Court did not act wisely. For the first time because it is not in its decision or because it did not take account of the reasons for this so - called problem into account, not the consequences. So, no reasons, this is the independence of our country and the conscious decision of the self-denamed, that they do not want to have citizenship, that they have not tried for this citizenship, even though we have offered it to them, and the consequences, that is the financial consequences. Hereafter, we have given the decision of the Constitutional Court in the National Party an initiative, not a request, an initiative, because we do not have the right to request the Constitutional Court to review once again the compatibility of Article 1 of the Act with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has stated in its decision that it does not reject it, but will not accept it because the Members of the Slovenian National Party have no legal interest. When we asked them what the legal interest is so that we too could participate in the Constitutional Court, they would tell us that the legal interest would be if deleted or self-named were erased. That is why these stories, parallel stories are taking place today in Parliament, the government and, more importantly, even more sadly, in a very strong factor, that is, unfortunately, Mr Krivic. In addition to some sadness, which I have already mentioned, I would just like to touch Mr Vukko, who spoke very much in his performance - or I apologize and correct - who read about human rights in his performance. Where are these human rights in the area of social, health, I mentioned earlier, work. But, of course, Mr Vukko or Mr Kekec, whatever you prefer, this is entirely your personal decision, not to rape us, that we must take exclusively into account as a human rights fight and carry on our hands the fight for self-named eraseds, which I have told you, which three categories, according to my assessment, are these. It was also a presentation by the Liberal Democracy Group, where Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs spoke for 29 minutes about the unkindness of Slovenia. The Vice-President of the National Assembly is talking about the unkindness of our country. Then how can she be so double-faced that she is presented with such pride at home and abroad, but when she speaks on behalf of the party, we are such an unfriendly country. Are we really such an unkind country? I think it's a long way from being such an unfriendly country. But we are a country that makes a number of mistakes, in which politics is solely governed, unfortunately, by politics. In the presentation of the views of our parliamentary group, the Slovenian National Parties, we have raised some issues and some of them are not, and I will present you now. All of you, as a whole of this National Assembly, knew in due time all 90 Members of the European Union of a weighty wish or a reasonable assumption of the referendum. My colleague, Bogdan Barovic, at the time of the first system law, said that there was a danger of a referendum if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the ruling majority, did not consider it appropriate to take into account also the proposals and amendments to the law which came from other types and not exclusively from Mr Krivica or Mr Bohinec. No, you didn't. You marched the National Assembly with your majority, and already - so much salt or, I'm sorry, so much wisdom you too - knew there would be a referendum. That was months ago, so don't bring the readings back today. Next. You know that the signatures were collected for at least 14 days. Those 14 days were the time to talk about adopting the theory that some representatives of Liberal Democracy today offer so widely, let's give money somewhere else. And we all know that's absolutely impossible. The budget has long been adopted. Such offers are exclusively TV offers. Here we go. Mr. Pahor, a certain unreality, since many have already read it to you, but because I think you deserve it, so will I. Your mistake was that the Constitutional Court gave the final decision, as it was, by delaying the deadline. The last time I assessed one of the major mistakes made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was that both laws should be repealed. Not only because of the procedure which was initiated and imposed on the National Assembly, but mainly and solely because none of these laws had any justified financial implications. Today we know there will be financial consequences. We know that these financial consequences will be enormous, we know that there are no reserved resources in the budget for them, and we know that not one thousand of these funds, which is the result of the deletions, will reach a referendum that we know of which it has an assessment. I would like to touch only on the matters of the Institute of the Referendum. The fact is, if the referendum, if the people at the referendum decide not to reward the speculators, the aggressors or those who slept alone and did not know that Slovenia had become independent, this should be a green enough light for the governments of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a new law. The new law, which will be in accordance with the will of the people, you will see in the referendum, so this referendum is still important, because at the referendum people will decide and tell you what they want from the new marriage. Indeed, there is fear, it is Mr. Vukko who mentioned it, continued to predict that regardless of the referendum, he will not stick to the results, but I hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will overcome more wisdom than the Member of the Liberal Democracy and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come with such a law as will reflect the referendum will that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come with such a law as will reflect the will of people. At least they should be in the service of the people, both this State Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, I have a feeling after these three years of this mandate that both the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are increasingly forgetting that we are people at work and that we should work for people. One more thing. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not prepare such a law, then we will all be aware of what kind of government we have. However, I am likely to sincerely hope that the government will take account of the referendum will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Let me just explain who is still on the list I have before me: colleague Barovic, Anderlič, colleague of Potrata, Kelemina, Lavrinc and colleague Majnikov. Let's go in one order. Please. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I didn't want to replicate myself, I listened to most of it, I'm one of the 90 members of this national assembly at least until the end of next year. All I want to say to my colleague is that I wasn't abdicating because he estimated that the National Assembly was abdicating, I wasn't abdicating. I'm not giving out any other replicas. It's not true that the referendum is irrelevant. Dear colleague, there is a 153rd Article of the Constitution, which, despite my modest legal knowledge, I am not a lawyer, clearly states that the Constitution, in parallel with the constitutional decision, cannot be directly applied. It's not possible. The implementation of the Constitution requires an absolute legal basis. If you do not believe, see the Constitutional Court ruling, paragraph 24, where the Constitutional Court itself recognises that it does not act under Articles 160 and 161 of the Constitution, but under Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act. If you look at it, you see this article talking about the legislative branch of power, the legislative function. First of all, he admits to himself that he doesn't do that. And secondly, we admit what I said. Allows the legislator or the legislator to enforce constitutional articles, constitutional elements, constitutional decisions to amend this way by law. The Constitution cannot be directly enforced. It means the marriage has to be the basis. So, we're going to the referendum, the outcome of the referendum will be what it will be. If we look at the conclusion again. See clearly on the third page, where the Constitutional Court writes as follows: "It is unclear what is the purpose of voting at the referendum and what is the interpretation of the outcome of such a referendum" - it goes on to say - "it is also unclear whether it is a matter of voting against specific solutions in law or of voting against a Constitutional Court decision." Both, on the basis of Article 153 of the Constitution, meaning that if the outcome of the referendum is such that people decide not to accept the proposed law on enforcement of the 8th point that people disagree with it, the constitutional decision will be without legal basis. This constitutional decision requires, on the basis of Article 153 of the Constitution, a new legal basis, a new legal basis. She needs it, she has to have it. At least that's how I understand the Constitution, which I respect. Many lawyers can confirm that. This means that if the referendum succeeds, I say that this law will be rejected, says on page 3, the first three lines: The National Assembly, one year after the referendum, cannot adopt a law that would be contrary to the outcome of the referendum, nor can it repeat the referendum on the same issue. The story is clear and clear. I personally do not believe, and I will not, I will not, point out, respect what is said on page 10, under point 25, which states: "...with the possible rejection of the law at the subsequent referendum, will not terminate the duty of the National Assembly to execute the decision of the Constitutional Court and will not terminate the duty of the Ministry of the Interior to begin immediately with the enforcement of paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision." He can't. It cannot because the constitutional decision is just like the Constitution. The Constitution cannot be enforced; it cannot be implemented directly. It has to have a legal basis. It will be necessary to amend the law which will be the basis of a constitutional decision. But then you can. If you want, you can tell me I don't respect the constitutional decision. Yes, I publicly admit, I will not respect the constitutional decision. Why? Because, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I respect the Constitution. Article 153 of this Constitution has made it clear to me that a constitutional and constitutional decision without a legal basis cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u109	My friend Anderlich. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Modestly, yes. Modesty. I read it, I learn it. But we have lawyers who can say that and they don't know. I'll just say it again. I respect the Constitution. It's not true what you're saying. At the referendum, people will express their will on the law and at the same time, as stated in the Constitutional Court decision, which only doubts or questions whether we are deciding on the law or whether we are deciding on a constitutional decision. Otherwise, you can either confirm or deny your fellow lawyers, which is why you are a little better educated. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u111	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u112	Your Honor! Obviously, I misjudged the time in which we are discussing and, of course, the topic that we are discussing, because I was sure that we would not discuss this issue at 30.12. And a second time. I was particularly sure that if so, then we would discuss the decision on the call for a referendum. Certainly not about the law, for we adopted the law, some of them, of course, opposed it. Clearly, we have come into a situation where we have to solve some things that have not been done in our own will. We're trapped. We did not allow the Constitutional Court to discuss the content of what we asked him. Those of us who voted in good faith at the time for what we voted for. How can we be put in a situation, Mr President, that if I paraphrase a policy from the past, that we are dealing with human rights, and we are going over human rights. The Human Right to Referendum, article 90, which is very clear in the constitutional court here in the form of quoting, which can be considered human rights, and, of course, the right of which the law itself speaks. I don't believe in cases anymore, not for a long time. There was a diversion that night. At ten o'clock in the evening, I asked myself to offer an unpopular proposal to the National Assembly - I know that the shouting would be huge on the left - to stop the debate, to decide on the proposal, to send a request to the Constitutional Court and to discuss for three days. Because the decision was clear in advance, the arguments were on the table and the matter could be resolved. Of course it was different. Because I do not believe in the case, I wonder how we are discussing the law today and that we have all fallen into a trap to discuss the law - I will not - which is not the subject of today's debate. Not to mention all the other things, Elan, sand and the like, which are being discussed here today. Whether or not to explain the referendum, this is now a question. Two bad suggestions, two bad solutions. If we do one thing, we will cause injustice on the one hand, if we accept the other, we will cause another injustice. Of course, it is not the case that the Minister did not hope, he did not know, he did not want to decide to issue decisions, and he hired a group of experts who did not believe in a group of experts, but who are now constitutional judges, as someone said today, who are an institution, like the pope to whom you refer, even if it is wrong, this is true. We have some institutions in the country, and that's what the Constitutional Court is. I know, and that's right. At that time, I said consciously about this speech, Mr. Minister, not the pope, but in another context, I said, "Mr. Minister, because I know that this is a delicate solution, a delicate decision to go and issue supplementary decisions without law, we will support this law, so that the National Assembly in this work, when it comes to correcting some injustice, protects you". The reference to this or that article of the Constitution is now completely without reason. The Constitutional Court has said the same thing the second time. As far as content and substance are concerned, which is why we are actually sitting here, it is irrelevant what anyone thought at the time, either two marriages or one, or whatever. After all, we could have adopted one, one, one, one, and so on, and we could have arranged everything there by September. It wasn't in the mood. On the one hand, there was no crying out loud as to how we were correcting injustices and so on. We've come to the situation we're in. Talking about billions, money, one and the other is also irrelevant. Today we only have a decision to make or against a decision. I would like to, but I will not argue with observers in the European Parliament or with anyone else, because there is a lot to be said. Today, man spent so much time on one debate that he reasoned on some things that had nothing to do with this decree, more than the physical presence of the entire December in this assembly. But let's leave that aside, too. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, let's say so. I will support the decree because in these two bad solutions I have no choice, I cannot decide between one constitutional right and another if you want human rights. At this point, it seems to me that Article 90 of the Constitution is acting on its own and that is why I will adopt this decree. However, I would very much like to know who brought us into this situation so that we did not allow the Constitutional Court to decide on the content. This cannot be explained by an explanation, czech, I got, one lawyer claimed so, another lawyer claimed so, but it's a decision. This is not the opinion of one or the other or the third. Here we know, not only in this case, but also in many others, the opinion of the same thing is a lot. But this may, of course, be another discussion. I hope we get to that one. I will support this ruling so that the Constitutional Court does not decide that I have violated the rights set out in article 90 and that I have not violated any other constitution. Regrettably affected by the hope that voters will be able to assess what is going on for individuals who have suffered harm from this country and what is not going on. This is, of course, what I think must be said at this point in this decision. No, we will discuss the law if it is to be back on the agenda or systemic or if it is really necessary to accept it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u113	She's a magician's colleague. Spending. You weren't appointed? This should be done with caution. I'd like a colleague of the Masters of Purgatory, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. The vote on the decision to call for a referendum should not raise doubts, as the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia requires the National Assembly to call for a referendum if at least one third of the Members, the Council of State or 40,000 voters so require. However, the National Assembly has the right, under Article 16, paragraph 1, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, to request the Constitutional Court to determine the constitutionality of the referendum question or to decide whether or not to reject the law at the subsequent referendum would result in unconstitutional consequences. However, this right must be exercised before the Constitutional Court by making a request within a specified time limit. This is precisely the mistake of exceeding a certain seven-day deadline, for the Constitutional Court has based its rejection of the constitutionality requirement and has not been defined on substantive issues. However, it is clear from the Constitutional Court’s reply that it did not give exactly three points of reply to the motions for a referendum at the request of the National Assembly to assess the constitutionality of the referendum question. The rejection of an unnecessary law cannot have unconstitutional consequences, they say. Of course not, but there is no need to deceive people, say, people, decide. It rightly raises the question of what will be decided by the people at the referendum. If I help myself with today's statement by the initiators, it will be defined not to this law, but to the issue of deleted in general. So they expect it to be defined politically. So, then, is the requirement for an assessment whether the rejection of the law of the anti-constitutional effect of the vine could result in a shift? It is still possible to hear in the debates that the law decides on citizenship, although it is expressly stated that it is only an important binding situation, to exercise certain rights and legal benefits that individuals, which are several thousand, could not exercise due to the unregulated situation. This should, however, be rewritten by the Constitutional Court, without a specific law. While nine prominent legal professionals considered that the law was necessary for the enforcement of the 8th point of the decision. The law was a stumbling block and it was also repeated that the request would not have been submitted if the opposition amendment had been adopted. Again, the Constitutional Court said that supplementary decisions should be issued. Today, it was threatened that a review of each decision would be carried out following the next elections and that something else had been added. Then is it still possible to believe in a willingness to respect the Constitutional Court's decision? I read again the report of the Internal Policy Committee on the request for an ex-post legislative referendum. The justification of the applicants is turning in a reverse direction, which would strengthen us as a more patient and more open society. The words of the initiators of the referendum give the impression that in this country, say the countries, there are fears, lies, deception, confusion, chaos. So what do we do to change this apocalyptic political image of Slovenia? The answer will really have to be said to the people if we want to talk about democracy, but not to the question offered by this referendum. So it would be wise - and how much talk there was about wisdom - to give up the referendum's proponents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u115	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much for your word. I don't know if you remember, a few days ago, when we were discussing this proposal, this initiative, I don't know if you remember when I was alone, I think, 10 hours ago, the first warning, to this or to give up the debate with a warning that there was still a matter to be sent to the Constitutional Court in that day. Yes, until midnight, in that day until midnight, as Mr. Anderlich also spoke about. I don't know why this didn't happen, and just like Mr Anderlich, I wonder where the reasons are. If Mr Anderlich does not know the answer to this question, I certainly cannot know him either. However, time and history may show that the wrong explanation by the legislature and also the delay by Mr Pahor was an act of state. Maybe, I'm saying. In this debate today, however, I cannot agree with this thesis, which you have been repeating over and over again, that the situation in which we have become a national assembly is now the fault of the opposition or those 30 Members who have signed this initiative. I can't agree to this. And that is why I applied today to discuss once again this claim and this emphasis on the guilt, the guilt of the signatories to this initiative. The main problem is that the ruling coalition, or at least this leading political option, in which, following a statement from Mr Jakic's previous mandate to be a smart party, should find, on the basis of this wisdom, that this proposal, sent to the National Assembly by the Government or Minister Bohinec, that this proposal is weak or unnecessary and that this wise party should decide and find that such a proposal should be rejected and requested from the Government, ask, whatever you can do with your power, when you have the right solution or request an appropriate solution. But you didn't want to do it, that's definitely it. You didn't want to hear any arguments from the opposition, nor did you want to reject a bad proposal. If you had rejected a bad proposal, you would not be discussing it today, but the government would have simply drawn up a proposal that would be appropriate and that would also be in line with what the Constitutional Court has said, as you have found out and all together, where the Constitutional Court has said that this bill, which will be decided by the people at the referendum, is unnecessary if, of course, we have already adopted it or if we have had it on the agenda and if you have accepted it to be rectified, this proposal is indeed incomplete. Finding culprits and 600 million costs and all the other consequences of attributable to the opposition or 30 signatories is unfair and unfair. All the conjecture and all the nice words you've said here today, respected colleagues, colleagues on the other hand, at the expense of the 30 of us signatories, are unjustifiable. I am firmly convinced, and I hope that the people, if they have succeeded in monitoring this debate, have found this. Such banal comparisons that you have presented here today, for example, with regard to the death penalty, that if someone suggested that the people might decide and against the constitutional decision to reenact the death penalty, the mockery of our citizens is true. I am firmly convinced that our people, our citizens are not, our people are not so stupid that they will legitimize the death penalty if everyone knows that the constitution states that the death penalty is not in Slovenia. It wouldn't do that. I'm pretty sure. And this is pure mockery from a people where people are simply not trusted. I have often convinced myself in the National Assembly that the arguments put forward by a person do not apply if they are still so substantiated and so justified. Then it's logical that I should refer to something other than that people are probably capable enough, and I think it's capable of just deciding what's right and what's wrong with them. All this ignorance that you are pouring out today and accusing our side or myself as a signatory is unjustifiable. That's all I'm telling you in the end. You probably know what happens when you sow the wind, what you reap. You've been sown by the wind, you'll want a storm. And you're going to have to attribute that to yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u117	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues here have asked me to be brief in the implementation, not just to finish as soon as possible, but because then I will certainly not mention anyone, and I will not give a replica or a replica. I would therefore start by reading more often than I have read this decision, by which the Constitutional Court rejected our initiative, and I liked it better. I must say, I've said something similar this morning that I like this institution, the Constitutional Court, more and more. Even because no matter what kind of people make it up, it retains a credible and upright attitude. And if we didn't go against them, of course, we'd be taught if you took I would still ask, colleagues from SDS, that you're kind to me, I don't mention anyone. [[...]] However, I would ask you to take this seventh page of this decision, or the explanation of the decision, where in the small press, of course, they warn, Mr President, of you too, and all of us: Failure to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court constitutes a grave violation of the principles of the rule of law. Then they say that this is not just a practice that is common. They point to a number of decisions that have not yet been drafted by the government, we have not done so ourselves, nor is it on the agenda, and so on. I want to say the following. People were really trying "all sorts" today. With lies, with sneezing, with my colleagues I talk, with mud. I would never allow words as cruel as they were said. There's one for sure. This meeting and this conclusion and these matters are for the textbook. A textbook for students of constitutional law, a textbook, how not to behave, a textbook, what matters. I would still ask, that is, a textbook for the protection of undemocratic procedures in some democratic order, after all, almost a coup d'état. The National Assembly will not recognise, I don't know, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and those who do so will be punished and so on. For my understanding of the totally unrealistic statements made by serious people who have been in politics for a long time. Among them were some of them, whom I had entrusted to them so far. That's why I'm gonna say, I'm closing with the next thought. I am quite pleased that this explanation has come about, of course, highly dissatisfied, Mr President, and by the way that there has been a saying as it is. This was that our initiative had to be rejected because it was recognized. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u119	My colleague Majnikov's. And then there's my friend Peterle. We'll slowly move on to the decision, so please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much. In fact, I was wondering if I would speak in explanation of voice or here, so I would be very brief. Today we're talking about a decree. Everyone talks about how they understand what the Constitutional Court has written. So I'm going to talk about what I read myself. The Constitutional Court does not decide whether the implementation of the referendum would have an anti-constitutional effect because it has decided that its decision must be carried out on its own, paragraph 8. Therefore, the Constitutional Court raises the question of the meaning of carrying out such a referendum and says that this is merely a political but not a constitutional issue. Therefore, since our highest legal authority, the Constitutional Court, has decided that no law, no referendum, cannot remove the 8th point which must be carried out on its own, and because it seems extremely unacceptable to me that the legal profession with the highest titles in our country manipulates us, Members and Members, and is trying to put us in a position when we should decide which part of this profession we will believe in, I am deciding on my own expertise and on its highest authority, which, as Members, informs me that decision-making is a political and non-constitutional issue. Next to this saying, I will make a political decision against the decree. I am aware that the vote will be against the great minority. However, I will decide against it because it seems a real shame to spend 600 million on a referendum that will not decide on anything or on a mirage as has already been said today, since, after the Constitutional Court has issued its sentences, the implementation of the 8th point and the way in which it executes it has explicitly determined and, as it also says, in accordance with Article 40 of the Constitutional Court Act in the present case, has taken on the role of temporary positive legislator. I will also oppose the fact that, at the referendum, we would decide on fundamental human rights, which could be dangerous for our young country. When we decided on human rights more than a decade ago, this led to a new state. I am convinced that there are many who signed for human rights back then, after hearing today's debates, it is a shame that they have signed under the invitation of the Committee. I will go first because I do not want the same fate to befall all those Slovenians and Slovenians who live and work abroad and have obtained certain rights there, but other Slovenian citizens are. I think it would be terrible if the rest of the countries took the same path as we do. The dilemma is that the rejection of the constitutional right to referendum by voting against the decree is once again a political decision. By voting against the decree, I am indeed violating the rights of 30 fellow Members and Members, but this time their right is actually a right for themselves; it is the right to a referendum that will not decide anything, and it is the right of 30 signatures to literally spend 600 million tolars. And I'm conscious of that. I am sorry that none of these 30 thought about withdrawing the signature and that these 600 million could be used much more usefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u121	Two other discussers, colleague Peterle and colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You don't have to be here all December to figure out what a demagogy is, what a constitutional position is, what an unconstitutional position is and how a coalition works [[about this a few words later]] . Those who listen and watch have heard and remembered that the law has been proposed by the government, said, of course, that it is of quality, that it solves the matter in the most appropriate way, was supported or adopted by a ruling coalition here in Parliament. Today, however, the audience and viewers, who have already accompanied one extraordinary session, have different discussions ahead of them. Today, we have heard that the law is bad or that it is unnecessary and that the Ministry could directly implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. Look, from the same coalition very different rumours, and I will have great problems on the ground explaining what it is about now. If you hold what some of you claim that the Ministry can carry out the matter directly, why did you go to law school? Why didn't you agree in the coalition to do this directly? Why did you tease us with this law to say so? Now we're listening to things when he's asking the minister why he didn't do it, and I'm gonna ask him something else. Now, of course, he's looking for the culprit, and this skeleton was running hot from Bohinc to Rope, then he came to Parliament, and he went to a constitutional court, and there they went into broad debates, instead of saying you sent too late, and peace, you decide to move on. Now we're dealing with all the political tracts here, and this boning you've made yourself, and it's very hot. I must ask the Minister of the Interior on the basis of a quote he mentions in his writing, Mr Krivic, who I mentioned earlier when he said he refers, quotes Mr Alvar Gill Robles, the European Ombudsman, and says: In point 31 you wrote to me, the President of the National Assembly has assured us that the law will be supplemented, as the Constitutional Court of the Minister of the Interior has ordered, and has informed me that the process of retroactive effect on the status of permanent residence will begin. On this basis, I have a duty and right to ask how many decisions would be directly implemented on this basis to assure the European Ombudsman and what number of decisions we are in. For I understand from this that if the trial began, if the minister did not lie that something had already happened. Mr. Krivic here is talking about the date he says [[...]] [[It reads from the text, incomprehensible.]] is said to have some comments on the confidential draft report, date 18.9.2003. [[...]] A few months ago. If the Minister had assured that the process had begun, how many decisions would have been directly implemented. That's what I have to ask, because I'm going to have to answer those who voted on me, and I don't want to be without a word, without an explanation. Another time. Now that the coalition is asking itself who did it, who did it, who didn't do it, I would say, let's settle ourselves and don't hire us with such discussions. But from LDS, I have three lines, one for, one for, and one for, and I'm a little bit there. If you were organized as a coalition, there wouldn't be any problems. It's simple. Nor would we ask the president of the National Assembly how it could have happened as it did. Since I have not yet heard an appropriate explanation, in addition to the explanation I wish to have before the vote by the Minister of the Interior, I would also hear an explanation of our President Pahor as to how the statement on the fifth page of the explanation of the constituency of the Constitutional Court of 22.12. Who advised you about such a position of president who is not the position of the National Assembly? I do not recall that we would have voted on such a position that we can joke about it over time and it takes forever for our right to appeal to a constitutional court if there is also a precise deadline. I would also like to talk about responsibility, not the first one in this house, from where it comes to such an attitude that time is not a category. Please explain for both of us before we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u123	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We've been listening to the complete conversion of facts all afternoon. The issue continues to be that the signatories to this request for a referendum are essentially undemocratic, that they go about impatience, etc. I wonder where you're getting these weights from. Who blamed this whole thing? The worst part was when Mr Lavrinc came with the thesis that we were saving ourselves for undemocratic solutions, for a small coup that was a small state office. Gentlemen, the attempt of the Small State Office was that opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission and the acceptance that we had sent that decision under the Presidency of Mr Lavrintz to the Constitutional Court, although we noted that that decision, which states that binding, is a time-limit for sending a decision to the National Assembly, is where the lawyers and all those who voted here were mostly lawyers, said that in this case no longer has to be respected. This is the total erosion of the legal system in this country. And this was some attempt at a coup d'état, because they would change the legal system, or they'd edulate it, they wouldn't be there anymore. You keep calling for this to be necessary to show me political wisdom. We have shown a great deal of political wisdom when we have warned about the traps of this law and in due time warned, let us come in together, let us find the right solution to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. You have been completely deaf to every suggestion, and now you all find that this technical law is unnecessary. Is it democracy that you raped the National Assembly with unnecessary law, dragged the procedure, harassed the entire Slovenian public, and now you say: receive the thief. You're pointing to everyone on this side. You're the one who made up the whole story. Also, those who write your legal opinions once held a case in the drawer for four years, stalling and now condemning others. Stop it! You're afraid of the people, you're actually afraid of them. You people are afraid because you know that it will be a plebiscite decision not to let go of the games you've tried to force them rape. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u125	My friend Anderlich, then my colleague Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u126	The probability that you'll have trouble explaining, Mr. Peterle, what's going on is just something. The problem is how you will explain what you did before, now almost years ago, that you brought the state of Slovenia into this situation where it has to fix something from that time. You'll probably have a problem with that. And it would be good for you to tell citizens and citizens what you have done and why this needs to be regulated. This is a serious question.I don't believe you have any correct answer here. Point now with your finger at the disorientation of the coalition. Of course, it is not arranged in the part where you were able to convince them that you have been added four votes in order to re-enter the wheel of this car, that it was not possible to enforce this law in the way it was intended. In accordance with the Constitution, on the basis of laws and, of course, with the rights that go to everyone, to citizens, to citizens, to Members, to the Constitutional Court and so on. Everyone in their role does their job. There may also be a problem with the resolution of the coalition. But I believe it's another coalition, because those 30 signatures are another coalition, so there's no mistake about the public again. Not the one that makes up the government. But it's also a coalition. Natural, unnatural, but legitimate, with all the prelogues that go with it, if that's the case. I, of course, have something else to do with Mr Peterlet's problems, or perhaps he will have to tell someone else later, when the sky will no longer be present when he is in the position of an active Member of the National Assembly, but perhaps a Member of the European Parliament, what he was actually doing at the time. That could be a problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u127	My colleague Mogo. Sorry, Peterle has a short replica. I'm sorry he was mentioned. I'm just suggesting we don't go into trouble because that's not the point of the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I won't have any problems with my own time of conquest, even with these decisions, because at that time we were making progress on all, for Slovenia's important fronts. We also entered the Council of Europe, when I was the Foreign Minister, we came elsewhere and so on. They quoted earlier, Mr Pece and others, reports, assessments, positions by European or global institutions. You know that this game has started to turn in some special political circumstances, in some new structures and skills and so on. I would like to hear from Mr Ombudsman, also with me or with a civil initiative and so on, but then I could say some things about this topic. It's interesting that you weren't needed. I think that Mr Ombudsman has been extremely unilaterally informed, which is not good for all of this. I would like to say something else in this regard; I think that all those who announce a voice "against" are acting unconstitutionally because the Constitution lays down the conditions which the National Assembly must accept must approve the referendum when the conditions are met. And now the conditions are met. Anyone who votes against the decree will act unconstitutionally. That's my sincere democratic position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u129	Look, since the request was repeated several times, both for an explanation and for an apology, I am obliged to say a few words. And I would ask you if you could listen to me as carefully as I did to you. So, as you know, the College has decided on 9 December that the meeting of the National Assembly will be the first item of the European theme and the second item is related to deleted. This point started at five o'clock if I'm not mistaken. That the problem of time may be a problem, I learned from the information received at about half-eight and eight, I think and immediately asked to determine whether there are any reasons why, due to the deadline, any time limit, it should be limited, and then the State Assembly can carry out all its work in accordance with its decisions. At approximately half past eleven here, I read before the National Assembly the position I received from the legislature. I said that, on the basis of this view, I see no reason to limit the debate, because, as stated in the decision or in the position of the legislative and legal service, nothing would be wrong if a day later had been done. Well, when the point was finished, it was, I think, something after eleven o'clock, I went from the big meeting room and asked the secretary-general whether there was anything else to be done that day to make everything right and by the rules and also to get information that the position of the legislative service is that this deadline is instructive and that, therefore, that day does not have to send this decision and that it will be enough if we do it tomorrow morning. I had no reason not to trust the secretary general, which is what he's telling me. I know her as a conscientious co-worker, and we never had a problem with that, and I said, okay, then we'll do it the next day in the morning. That's what I think is right for you to know that you're considering this in one way or another, that no one would think that, as I said before, something was done after negligence or that no one would think that this was done on purpose. It was done as I said. And I think it is right that, if such a proposal is given to the college, we are also discussing what this means; but I certainly think it is time for us to slowly conclude this debate and decide on the proposal for a decree today. My colleague Moja asked for the floor. My colleague Mogo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I do not have enough criminal experience to determine on the basis of everything that has been said today whether it was "slamparia" or whether it was a conscious act that the Constitutional Court could not decide on the motion for a decree and that the request of Members we have signed has been rejected. And it is probably up to us, who respect the rule of law, that now this decree, which we are discussing today and which we are going to confirm by pressing the button, from the motion of the decree we are going to make into the right decree, is what we are going to adopt. I will not object to this decision alone, but I am deeply saddened and also disturbed by the fact that I am not able to overcome the legal knowledge that the Constitutional Court would have felt about this. This is why we have, with a group of Members - I am one of them - prepared, once this decree is adopted, a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum, not a proposal. And as the Constitutional Court will, of course, because we are in the rule of law, decide that on the basis of their decision, I will then respect that decision. And it seems to me that, depending on whether this rejects or accepts, we will be able to make a simple decision about whether this decision goes forward or not. So the Constitutional Court will eventually be the one to talk about it. I will not object to this decision because of what has been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u131	Please, Comrade Kangler, then Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. In view of the fact that one of the discussers mentioned four votes from the coalition and there was a debate about the natural coalition, the real coalition, I would also like to explain my decision. I've done it before today, and it's only right that I repeat some things. I personally decided, on my conviction that I am not in violation of the coalition agreement, when I have convinced some legal experts and when I expected that we will achieve so much wisdom in the National Assembly, that we will listen to the veto of the State Council, try to solve this problem differently than today - I believe that my Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy is funny when I discuss it, but, colleague Max, I have decided on the basis of my personal conviction and on the basis of the discussions that have taken place in the Council of State, I mentioned Ilc's lawyer, and on the basis of a consultation in one of the faculties of constitutional law. If the professor, the one who introduced me to this view, is in error, then there are others, I could say, in error, and I won't say that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, even in the previous term, have been such and different coalitions on some ideological or substantive issues. There was lustration, there was a resolution, there were two parties in the government, and the coalition was slightly different, we changed some of the constitutional provisions, and the coalition was different again. And we have a Vatican agreement next month, and I am almost sure that this natural, or otherwise, coalition will also be different in this national assembly. But this is the legitimate right of each individual, and in some ways I also respect this initiative, which will be given or given, even though we have missed the deadline; and I respect every legitimate decision, both by a group of Members and by each individual Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u133	A fellow Rokavec, then a colleague of Peterle and Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. I think he's a forerunner. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u135	A replica? Please. Excuse me, Comrade Rokavec. Even for the replica? You wanted to replicate me? I thought you volunteered for the replica. I'll give my word first to my colleague Anderlich, then to you, Comrade Lavrinz. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u136	Well, of course, we are witnessing the start of Pilate's handwashing, and I hope that this time we will not wash these hands until the end. It is irresponsible and right, I would say, sad to say that we are rehearsing for a job, but when it comes to having a responsibility, a responsibility to decide, a responsibility to decide within certain deadlines and so on. And, please, don't mention it and wrap it up that the college had something to do with it, or sooner or later. It was said that the College had determined this and that, if necessary, the College would decide on it. No, the college correctly put it on the agenda and correctly - the matter was completed in time - we could arrange it. I find it extremely cynical, once you don't trust the Constitutional Judges, and Mr. Minister hires a group of lawyers. Then this group of lawyers says one thing, of course goes to the Constitutional Court, and says the "other group" - under the terms, I apologize - which, by chance, are constitutional judges, says otherwise. That evening, too, there were more opinions from lawyers, different opinions. And so we were all aware that there are several different opinions, and we were warned that we should think about it. And I went with a humble request to you - thank God you didn't have to limit the debate, but the matter was closed in time and we could do it. Obviously, though, we will wash our hands here in Pilate’s hands further to express our views. I think it was very fair and correct, as I said, but I strongly object that the professional services are now infused here, as if those who guide you - this has already happened several times and exactly in the referendums, and this is not right, it is not fair to professional services in the National Assembly, as well as other lawyers with whom you consult at the occasional or permanent external consultation status with the National Assembly; as you know that we have such things as well. I know. I know. I know. I don't think we need to continue to argue with Mr. Kangler. We're just doing the same in some things. But I don't think it's a privilege to think first of all about whether you can choose a coalition from case to case - once you like the one that Mr. Peterle specialises, or the second time you are formally and co-responsible and co-forming this country's policy, and of course you take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u137	You, you wanted a word, Comrade Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u138	Not to say something contrary to my colleague Kangler, but to explain what I am when I said that this explanation is as one kind of catechism for relations of all three branches of authority, etc. Look. On page 8, I will reiterate, the Constitutional Court states: "In this function, the Constitutional Court is the guardian of the Constitution" - so this is where we have to come from. If you've been somehow misled, Comrade Kangler, since the part of the profession, I must admit that I was, too. But on the other hand, we have a professional who is institutionalized, as my colleague Marsich spoke about, this is a constitutional court, which I have a constitutional role, which there is no doubt that there can be no discussion as to whether or not I will respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court and, of course, in this role, the Constitutional Court says exactly how, here is quite a few pages of very good reading, read many times, for every law student I would give it as a mandatory reading and therefore, of course, I smiled, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u139	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u140	Thank you, for your word. Well, that's all I meant to say, what my colleague Kangler said about four signatures earlier. I have to say again, I'm proud to have given this signature. In view of what has been happening all this time on the sidelines of the government, the National Assembly and also the Constitutional Court. I've already mentioned here today that all three branches of government have fallen on this exam. And the wisdom of politics is that it is trying to find solutions as soon as possible, the result of which will be as little consequences as possible. The first of these three authorities was the government, following a decision by the Constitutional Court on the referendum question or the call for a referendum. If the government wanted to be serious if it wanted to save 600 million Slovenian tolls, then the government could have come to this national assembly with a clear intention by now, because the Constitutional Court had also said that the law implementing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court was irrelevant, it would have come to this national assembly with a proposal for a law amending this law because it would have said that this law was being repealed. This would be one gesture against the signatories for the requests for a subsequent legislative referendum. Of course it wasn't. Just as this arrogance has been present all this time, so that we do not have the concerns that we have had against the solution of this law in order to have an appropriate and concerted dialogue. And so the Tatyarogans are moving on now. We are also following it today with Mr Mojet's announcement that this National Assembly will adopt another decision on the judgment of the Constitutional Court - a group of Members. Don't you? My colleague Moja, if I have understood it correctly, said that the Group of Members is preparing a proposal for a decision where the Constitutional Court should ask once again for the constitutionality of this decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum. That's gonna be a farce! See only the 25th point of the explanation of the Constitutional Court decision, what the Constitutional Court says in the context of this referendum question. And you will once again give the Slovenian voters and voters another surrender, this time a year ago, to try to stall this decision, which at the moment, when all the opportunities have been used, all the options - once again, I say - can only be resolved by the electorate and voters at the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u141	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u142	In that part, I must say that when he mentions that we have prevented or failed to accept their role or their proposal - it is not true. As soon as the 30 Members' request for a follow-up legislative referendum is filed - Comrade Rokavec, you have so many friends among constitutional lawyers that they will tell you, as well as among ordinary lawyers, that it is not possible to stop this matter if someone does not get off this train, it is impossible. Some proceedings are under way and only the "kiks" of this national assembly is that in that procedure it did not in due time issue a request for an assessment to the Constitutional Court, which could then also be decided on the content. And don't be so philosophical about snuggles and non-locks and so on. To the Constitutional Court, in this explanation, which I repeat again, catechism, it tells you when it's a ruse, when it's not. It's all exactly written down, you just have to read it, maybe ten times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u143	I can't give you a word about the replica, Comrade Kacin, he didn't mention you. He's a colleague of Moze's. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u144	Mr. President, he mentioned me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u145	My colleague Mogo has a word now, not you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u146	Can I replicate my colleague?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u147	No, now my colleague has his word because he's already called.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listen to these things all day, I get tired of the thought of the Bosnian philosopher from Nazeret, who said, "I'm sorry, Dad, they don't know what they're doing." If you do not understand me correctly, I will read again, that is to say, Members, there must be at least 30 - I hope that we will gather so many - we will send a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law implementing the 8th point of the provision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia number and so on, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 38th extraordinary session on 30.12.2003 and so on. And that is why I hope that we will adopt this decree, and if they decide to do so, then we can go to a referendum with a clear and peaceful soul. But if he says no, then the referendum's off anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u149	I give my word to my colleague Peterlet and then to my colleague Kacin. Please. Comrade Peterle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I'm gonna start with this last one because I want this sequel to go on forever. I understand to some extent Mr. Mohet's intentions, but I don't understand the logic. So, the law is unnecessary, you say, the referendum is unrelated, and you would ask the Constitutional Court once again to discuss the matter. That's impossible! Next thing. Mr President, I am addressing you in particular now. After listening to Mr. Krivica on some "Tarchi" where I think we were with Mr Janša, where we asked him how a righteous man like him took almost four years to find out that something was wrong. And since he couldn't find another excuse, of course, he found someone who was supposed to send this to him for processing, and he hasn't called him in almost four years if he's done anything. And he pushed his finger down towards Dr. Pirnat. It was his public, I think, immoral, keeping it on the subject. And he hasn't made a credible point yet. Well, what I see is a parallel. You just said, the job said, and the general needs to know and so on. At that time, given how we have a constitution written, how we have a law on referendum and human initiative, there was nothing to ask. It was necessary to send one or another mail by midnight or to go there in person if they were still open. And that's what worries me that when a mystery comes, someone on a lower level asks, and all of a sudden, it becomes a marriage. There was nothing right here to ask. However, since this is already the case, if the order in the house is valid, then I ask the lady generally as a legal profession in this house and with long-standing knowledge or experience in the legislative service, what I do not want to be personal, anything else, or whether the legal service should tell us before we decide - what will happen or what steps will you take or will Parliament take if the number of those who have announced that they will not support the decision prevails over the number of those who will support it. How, then, will we read Article 90 of the Constitution, which clearly states, in which case the National Assembly must present a referendum? Will you call the election commission and suggest that it advise those who have acted against the Constitution to leave this house, or what will then happen? I am seriously interested in how we will act if the multitude of those who say we will not vote for the decree or we will not support it or vote against it, how will we act then? I think we're going to be very embarrassed by everything we've read from the Constitutional Court or anyone else. And once again, how - if the constitution stipulates that we have to call a referendum - how can anyone say I won't support the matter? He's working against the constitution! Am I right or am I right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u151	Comrade Kacin, short act, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Max Lavrinc said, and now I quote, "That was the kick of the National Assembly." It says here my name, that's one-ninety national council. I had nothing to do with that kick. If Max Lavrintz had anything to do with this "kiks," that's his problem. If anyone else had anything to do with this "kiks," that's his problem, but I'm not letting anyone on my behalf say that I was at half past eleven that night anything "kiksala". I didn't! I have done my duty, I have voted a decree as it has been adopted, and whoever has or has not sent it forward will therefore be able to respond, first of all to explain whether I have been mentioned or not. I was mentioned, and I'm not part of the kick. Another time. There's 90 of us here, and the college hasn't been sitting down. We have the first of the same to explain to us what others have told him. But the decision could only be made by someone who had committed an act or had abandoned it. So I want a clear answer, not for my own sake, but so that my mother-in-law doesn't have to explain that I'm not "kissal." Third thing. I do not believe that the law enforcement service in this National Assembly is working very well, and at least as far as the management of the Foreign Policy Committee is concerned, I always have the right views and I rely on them. I don't think this job would advise that. If that's what she was really advising, of course, I'm interested in whose brand she was. But if the professional service moves forward, it is a serious issue of expertise and credibility: on one side of the first one that refers to this professional service; and on the other hand, the professional service that does so - I will use the term Max Lavrinco - "kiks" again and allow me to present what I am doing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u153	I didn't say anything, I just explained my behavior. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u154	I would just like an illustration when my colleague Kacin asked, whose line the legislative and legal commission advised. On this Internal Policy Committee, it has been said that it has followed the full implementation of our parliamentary club in defending the 8th point law. This was from an eminent MP, Vice-President of the National Assembly, who spoke on behalf of the LDS- so much in an illustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u155	Mr. Minister? Who? My colleague Mogo. I didn't know, did you tell me, Comrade Jerovsk, that he wanted a word, or did you? Please, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u156	No, my colleague Peterle mentioned me and only briefly explained the following. First of all, it's not going to be an endless process, but it's going to stop at number two. The first was the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the draft decree and the second would be the requirement to assess the constitutionality of the decision itself. That's why I think we're going to take this decision. Well, that's the end of it. Another time. We, Mr Peterle, do not put here an assessment of the constitutionality of the law, but an assessment of the constitutionality of the decree, which will talk about the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court. One last thing I'd say is the next. If we look at, of course, if we collect enough signatures, and put this thing in, so that "will drink water," the following can happen. This decree that we will adopt today, I believe, will apply. If the Constitutional Court decides for the first time that this request for an assessment is unfounded, the decision will apply and the decision will be called for. However, if the Constitutional Court finds that this matter is justified, it is likely that the ruling will hold back as we know it, it will decide, and if it makes a decision in favour of this ruling that everything is fine with it, the referendum will be announced. Thus we will end up having an assessment of the Constitutional Court, but not because of our "slamparia", whether we are doing the right thing or not, and if we are not doing the right thing, we will save so many and so many million tolars, just as some have worried. But if we do what is right, if the decision is right, then we will draw every political consequence; it was just a debate of what we were talking about here today. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u157	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u158	On Mr Peterlet's explicit question, how is this report or decision being issued? I told Mr Robles that in Slovenia we have started the process of resolving this issue and have also presented to him in detail both of these laws. However, I told him and let me say today that we have not issued any decisions so far and, of course, so far. However, a completely different question will, of course, arise after a recent decision and explanation of the Constitutional Court, because it is legally changing quite a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u159	We will move on to a debate and a decision on an amendment. Please, I'm going to lead the matter very carefully - or how can I say that there will be no misunderstandings. If you are, please let me know immediately. I have before me, so do you, the amendment of my colleague the Rockman. Mr Rokavec has tabled an amendment to the proposal for a decree to point 4. Anyone want a word before making a decision? No, no, no. Now we decide on the amendment first. Once again, please, please, I'm as careful as possible, so let's be you. It is an amendment to the motion for a decree, to point 4 of the decree. The text of point 4 shall be amended to read: "The referendum vote shall take place on Sunday 15 February 2004." I'll put the amendment to the vote first. There's no reservations. We can move on to decision-making. First, I'm putting an amendment to the vote. We vote on the amendment. Attending 74, 39 for and 23 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now making a full decision. Vote explanation, please, Comrade Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the decree in the same substantive image from which I signed for the referendum. This signature is a long way from me being xenophobic - like a colleague of Shirce and so on. Far from not being for this coalition. Far from setting up one, we'll say a handle on the opposition's bicycle. However, I was firmly convinced that the way in which we adopt and the content in the final form of this technical law for the state of Slovenia, and not only for citizens and citizens, but for all of us who live here, and also for those whom we call deleted, is bad. Long-term bad. And when this coalition, and it's more and more often, under the last prime minister, is working in this sense for this country, I won't be around. And that's why I wasn't there when I voted on this law. And I know that the situation in our country is different from that in our pre-new congratulations, and we will have to, as responsible citizens, sometimes stop at some substantive proposal from the opposition and argue and make a good decision for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u161	Who wanted a word before? Please, Shirtz's colleague. My friend Run. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u162	It will be difficult to prove to me that in cases - not only in this case, but also in other cases mentioned today - it is not a matter of using form by concealing and concealing content. The contents are somewhere else. I repeat; also in the referendum that will take place, which is supposed to take place around the construction of the cultural-religious centre, it is not a question of "I" or "No", but it is a question of dimensions of size, limits of voice heights, etc., etc. I still think that this is also a symptom of some other problems, and the problems are related to fear of others, different and undesirable to us. I will abstain from this vote because I am also faced with two dilemmas, which I have already explained in my previous speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u163	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will abstain from voting. We believe that the requirements of the referendum candidates are not clear and may even be contradictory. What's more, my assessment is that they're knowingly misleading. In fact, it is the wish of the motioners of the referendum that the law which constitutes the basis for the immediate issuance of decisions at the referendum be rejected and that, on the basis of its decision on permanent residence, deleted persons shall not be issued. As long as a new law is not passed, of course, as the opposition imagines it should be, according to its contents, then everything they have said is very, very limited. However, the Constitutional Court’s decision of 22.12. this year requires the immediate issue of decisions, as explicitly stated in paragraphs 23 and 25 of this Decision. So if this requirement of the Constitutional Court is met - and we expect it to be, because this time it is indisputably clearly stated - any other action against the principles of the rule of law and then the referendum does not have any significant effects since the decisions will be issued by the referendum itself. Therefore, if a Constitutional Court decision is to be implemented and should be implemented, the referendum in our own sense is pointless. However, if he wishes to meet the demands of the opposition that the decisions be issued only on the basis of the new law - and Mr Janša even threatened anyone [[End warning sign]] will do otherwise, will be sanctioned by subsequent lawsuits in any new government - then I must say that we believe [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u165	Time's up, please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u166	to respect the Constitutional Court’s decision, to issue decisions this time and to ensure that the rights of deleted persons are finally enforceable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u167	Ah, sorry, on behalf of the delegation. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u168	Mr President, I have announced that I speak on behalf of the Group of Members, and please give me three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u169	Of course!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We therefore want to respect the constitutionality and legality of decisions, and therefore we believe that if there is - and because the government or the competent ministry has to start issuing decisions immediately, it will not be possible to make a decision at the referendum that would have actual legal effects. It will therefore be a referendum that will have no legal effects and we do not want to take responsibility for such a referendum. That's why we're gonna hold out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u171	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I will speak on behalf of the Group of Members. Today, a number of righteous men spoke against the referendum; they were vast, and one was more righteous than the other. And the Scriptures already say, Fear the righteous: they are the source of the greatest evil. And it was these righteous men who today accused us of being signatories to the referendum of being xenophobic, Nazi, impatient. It must be said, however, that the most zealous were the Nazis in the other world’s military righteous. It was those who came under "Anschluss" into the Nazi wing that were then the most zealous, and they were doing the most evil in Slovenia. We are therefore proud in the Slovenian National Party that we are not righteous, but that we are fighting for the interests of Slovenian citizens and citizens. That is why we have also signed a referendum request. And if it's necessary, we'll do it again and again. For rare are those who care about their own citizens, but we in the Slovenian National Party are among them. And we are proud of that if any just or just person tells us that we are Nazis, that we are xenophobic, that we are impatient, would suggest that the National Assembly, perhaps by means of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, buy her a mirror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u173	The National Assembly will now decide on proposal A, Comrade Lenko. [[...]] I try to write down everyone I see, and if I miss anyone [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u175	Please. Just a little more so I won't forget. Who else raised their hand? A fellow cremator. Oh, there's something else. All right, buddy Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So our DeSUS Group decided, after careful consideration, not to oppose the adoption of this decision. However, given that the Constitutional Court finds that this decree does not rule in any way, we consider that it is unnecessary and that we will work at unnecessary cost, even 600 million think that the money that our pensioners or anyone else could have spent usefully. Therefore, we do not want to take responsibility for spending this money, and let those who have done so take responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u177	I've got the right order. Colleagues Kremjar, Kremžarnik, Peterle, Evil. Anyone else? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u178	Thank you, Mr. President. Because we have three groups in our parliamentary group, as we have heard, one for, one for, and one for, and one for, a little bit like that, I just need to tell you where I'm going to be. I'll be in that group a little bit like that. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] But of course this general enthusiasm I have to disappoint a little bit, explaining why a little bit like that and a little bit like that. [[...]] The reason is very simple: I basically strongly opposed this referendum, and in the debate today, I have said why, and for a long time, why. On the other hand, I am constantly advocating respect for legislation and, above all, for the Constitution. And the Constitution makes it very clear that the National Assembly must make this decision. That's why I'm going to be a little bit, a little bit like that, because I don't want to interfere with you being able to make this decision, which I'm personally very, very opposed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u179	Comrade Petty Officer. Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. The New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of this decree because we want to comply with the constitutional provisions; the first paragraph of Article 90 clearly states how to follow. No, we're not gonna give any reason whether it's worth it or not. That is what we should ask ourselves, dear colleagues, but not now when it is necessary to decide in accordance with Article 90. There is no weighing in this direction, it just means that we will stick to this Slovenian constitution or we will put it in a corner somewhere; then it is the end of the country. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will fully support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u181	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u182	If I had hoped to be undecided in front of my constituents and voters, then I would probably have followed the courage to never run again because I could never stand before them undecided. As a Democrat, I want constitutional rights to be established when it is the will to do so. The people are sovereign and the people will tell how they see the rule of law and state interest in this case. I will therefore vote in favour of the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u183	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u184	I'm going to hold myself back because your idea isn't worth saying no. Segregation is a terrible thing and you didn't feel it on your skin. Slovenia is too small to afford the segregation you are preparing with your referendum. If you are blinded to the right, I hope that at least your grandchildren will have a broader heart of fellow humans if you cannot do it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-30-SDZ3-Izredna-38.ana.u185	Good. Please note in the Chamber, we will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the call for a subsequent legislative referendum on the law on the implementation of the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 72 in attendance, 37 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the agenda item and thus the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I wish everyone a pleasant rest of tonight, a beautiful evening tomorrow and all the good things in the new year, to us and the people we represent! Thank you very much.
