ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Nice greeting at the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I would be grateful if you would sit in your seats and allow for a smooth course of the session. May I have your attention, please? I am therefore initiating the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Several of our colleagues are absent: colleague Areh Lavrič, colleagues Beumann, Butolen, mag. Gračner, Grošelj, Horvat, Kangler, Lavrinc, Lenko, Levič, colleague Majnikova and Possončeva, colleague Jakič, Štemberger, Vukko and colleague of Cveta Zalokar Orazem. The Minister with his associates is also present at the meeting. I say hello to everyone! We will first set the agenda for the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, which is prepared in accordance with Rule 58(2) of the Rules of Procedure and which you have received by reference. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension, so we will immediately decide on the agenda as received by reference. Please check to see if everyone who is in the hall has put the cards in correctly. Above all, I once again invite my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the hall. If everyone were to sit in their bench now and help with the decision-making process, the National Assembly could set a timetable. May I ask for this? There's enough of us in the hall. Please check your cards again. The National Assembly will vote on the agenda. Please insert the cards. We vote on the establishment of the agenda for the 32nd extraordinary session. There are 46 colleagues in the hall, 41 in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] That's how we set the agenda. May I have your attention, please? We're moving on to a defensive motion for a bill to eliminate the consequences of natural disasters. Please, procedurally? May I have your attention, please? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. I say hello to everyone. I would suggest, in view of all the situation that has taken place in recent days with the adoption of this law, that Member States should be allowed to extend the time back to 15 minutes. I think this is acceptable; given the situation we are in, this is the only law for us and I think that certain things need to be further explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Now, the business provisions for the vote, which would amend these business provisions by a simple majority, cannot be put to the vote. See, it is available for five minutes under the Rules of Procedure to present the views of the groups of Members. However, since amendments have been tabled, Comrade Tanko, there is no obstacle to some clever way of clarifying the views on the issues also in the debate on the amendments. So I don't think it's such a key matter to stretch the opening time now. Please, I'll give you my word again, and then there's no way to discuss this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u4	I am aware that this would be an agreement between the parliamentary groups. However, certain things, after you explain them when you accept the amendments, are somehow dilute, are not complete. And, above all, because of this matter, I would say, at least on behalf of the Group of Members, I would suggest, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u5	I can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u6	I would say that this compromise is among the leaders of the parliamentary groups to give themselves. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u7	I cannot put clear business provisions to the vote because, in fact, with the Rules of Procedure, the right of a minority is guaranteed. If then, in the event of other problems, the general majority would change the business provisions, this could be next time at your expense, and this would be a precedent that is not good. I therefore propose that we stay at five minutes and then allow, as with the Rules of Procedure, to be discussed in the amendments and articles, which I think is the only possible solution. Master Kopač, Minister of Environment, Space and Energy will now give additional or complementary explanations to the National Assembly.Please, Minister Kopač.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! I think that there is no need to provide a very long additional explanation, as we have been discussing this law intensively both on the Infrastructure Committee and, after all, through the media for several days. I would just like to stress that the so-called system law needs this country, of course, because it is constantly facing some natural disasters, because it is something very normal. Such events, after all, continue to turn into something interventional in our political life. It is therefore right that we have a system law and possible indications that it has long been produced, I must say in advance, but it is also right that it has been produced for so long, because in the meantime we have gained a number of experience with earthquake recovery, in order to remedy the consequences of the 1998 floods, especially in the celery area, finally with drought in 2001, with large-scale reptiles in 2002 and with a number of other minor State intervention measures. If such a system law, for example, arose in 1998 or in 2000, then, of course, we should thoroughly correct it after all these experiences. Now I think that the situation for the adoption of the system law is mature, and this is, of course, based on all the experiences of remedying the consequences of the natural disasters that I have mentioned, and in particular on the principle that the engagement of the State to remedy the consequences of natural disasters on matters that are owned by the congregation must be preceded by municipal engagement, and on the principle that more of those who have insured their property than of those who have not. This is how we want to stimulate greater coverage. The bill has been drafted for a long time. In Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Agriculture, with additional amendments, has yet to be complemented or reformulated to a significant extent due to the different substantive solutions proposed by Members with those adopted on the Infrastructure Committee and thus incorporated into the integral text of the law. After the second hearing, we agree, we support. The amendments proposed by Mr Sok and Mr Tanko, but they will probably be repeated in the form of amendments by the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party, we have not seen them at this moment, and we have already rejected them in the committee in an argumentative manner, and so, of course, we will also try this time at the assembly. All that could be taken into account and incorporated into the concept of the law, whoever had already proposed, regardless of whether it was from the coalition or from the opposition, is, in my opinion, included in a satisfactory manner. I therefore propose that the proposal for a law, as set up by the Infrastructure Committee, be supported by an urgent procedure, so that this chapter of large and sometimes overheated political debates is closed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would the chairman of the committee, Comrade Janc, have a word? He does. My colleague Janc will present the report of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which finished work late last night. Please, Comrade Janc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, colleagues and colleagues. At its 18th meeting, on the 14th and 15th occasions, the Infrastructure Committee considered a proposal for a law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government. The representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Defence and the Council of the Republic of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee, in addition to the representatives of the proposer of the Law and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, the Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as an interested working body and the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission on Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In its opinion on the legal system, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out in particular that the solutions to the law in question are based on an assessment of the situation that the issues of the removal of the consequences of natural disasters are still not systematically regulated, which is not entirely accurate for agriculture. In view of the objective of the law submitted, that the system-wide regulation of the use of State budget resources to help remedy the consequences of natural disasters should ensure a share of the State budget for this purpose and that financing for the resolution of natural disasters would no longer have to be regulated by intervention laws at the time of each accident, the service considers that the compatibility of the solutions submitted with the public finances laws should be further examined. She also pointed out that the draft law touched the municipalities to a large extent, in particular the municipal budgets, mentioning that the entire area of funding of municipalities was governed by a law on the financing of municipalities whose provisions on the municipal budget had been repealed by a preliminary provision of the Public Finance Act. In addition, the Service also points out the 49th member of the Public Finance Act, which defines the budget reserve of the municipalities. With regard to the definition of natural disasters, the service also recalls the law on protection against natural and other disasters, the implementation of which begins immediately after the accident. However, the proposed law under consideration only means that it is being upgraded. The proposed law defines individual concepts differently than in the previous Act, without any specific explanation as to why the applicant decided to take a different approach. In addition to those general comments, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific comments to the individual Article of the bill. After discussing the individual articles of the bill, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food adopted its amendments to Articles 3, 4, 6, 11, 34, 35, 38, 40, 43 and 49, which are likely to be reported by the chairman of the Committee. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia supported the draft law discussed at the joint meeting and proposed the adoption of the amendments by paragraphs 7, 17, 34, 38, 39 and new paragraphs 69a. The Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food has adopted an additional decision calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide, as soon as possible, financial resources for the purchase of feed for bovine animals mainly in mountainous areas, as farmers offer massive livestock for slaughter and thereby reduce livestock stocks. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, at its next meeting on 15.7.2003, after further explaining to each article of the draft law, moved, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to a second reading of the draft law and, on the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss and vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled and adopted 58 of its amendments. The amendments were tabled by: the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Jože Tanko, Mr Aloise Sok, the LDS Parliamentary Club, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS and DeSUS, the Hungarian National Community Member Group, Mr Janko Weber and Mr Mag. Andrej Vizjak. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted amendments to the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as an interested working body by Articles 1, 4, 6, 11, 35, 40 and 43, Member of Jožet Tanka to Article 31, Member of Aloise Sok to Article 34 and Member of Janka Vebra to Articles 4, 5, 10, 14 and 25. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment adopted, on the basis of a discussion by the members of the Committee and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission on Forestry and Food of the State Council, 58 own, amendments and prepared, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an updated proposal for a law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, which forms part of the report of the Committee. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much, chairman of the board, colleague Janc. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by a colleague of Peče, behind him by a colleague of the DeSUS Group of Members of Parliament and forwards. My friend Peca first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! The purpose of the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters is, as the applicant said, a system regime. The previous regime, i.e. the intervention method after individual years, is not supposed to be right and from practice or from past years, this country is supposed to learn some things. In this way, the starting point, or the law, should be to provide financial resources, means of providing funds, conditions and modalities for the allocation of these funds and the authorities responsible for the implementation of the measures. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the starting point, as I took it earlier, is wrong, because it comes from the assessment that damage needs to be corrected and leaving damage in peace, does not seem reasonable or wise to us. We estimate in the Slovenian National Party that the foundations of the law should be defined or should go in the direction where it would provide for the prevention of damage or mitigation of consequences. For this reason, in the Slovenian National Party, we expected, for the first time, that today's law would be dealt with in a normal manner, so that the legislative branch of the authorities would have more time to prepare if the law had been introduced at the beginning of the year. It is important to stress that the government has been preparing the law for 8 years and now expects the National Assembly to accept it for 1 day. In the Slovenian National Party, we expected a change or content of the law that would take the form and promotion of those instruments that would have previously mitigated or prevented natural disasters in the system or in the form of two systems. First time. Promoting so-called irrigation systems that would be installed or subsidised in any form by the State and that is the easiest thing to do. An example of our neighbour Italy, where this is a very common phenomenon and this is how they try to prepare for the annual appearance of drought. Another time. Stronger promotion of mechanisms that will enable individual insurance is possible. While the government has been trying to do so, in certain articles of the law it has also mentioned and, of course, stressed the priority of compensation, but according to our assessment it is not enough. The proposed material, i.e. the Government of the Republic itself, states in its content in its explanatory statement that the European Union countries are largely unaware of the state's response to natural disasters. According to our assessment, if Slovenia has decided to join the European Union and if we are adapting our legislation to the European Union's legislation, we should also step in this area with the European Union. Because the fact is that this law is a heavy burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and of course, which is also a very big burden on the budget of local communities. It should be pointed out that, over the entire period of 8 years, the builder was unable to find inter-resortmental coordination and to invite associations or representatives of local communities to prepare the law, which would have consequences by accepting or receiving them. The justification for public money by farmers will be so double. First, through this system law, in the past through intervention laws. Secondly, under the Government's regulation on agricultural structural policy programmes and agricultural rural development policy, the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development and the public fund for regional development in one way or another shall call this call for compensation for damage caused by natural disasters. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we argue that it would make sense to approach another concept, and we believe that you will not accept it this year, but that in a few years you will see or realize that it is not reasonable to repair damage, but it is reasonable to approach it earlier and create conditions that would mitigate the consequences of the damage. According to our assessment, as far as the law is concerned and the content of the law is concerned, the amendments tabled are inconclusive, as is confirmed by the amendments tabled. We also assess that the law does not distinguish between damage to goods and damage in agriculture, interference in the field of local communities and does not pursue the objective, that is, prompt recovery, which would make sense, but introduces certain administrative deadlines, which will result mainly in confusion and not in solutions in the form of reparations. In the Slovenian National Party, we argue - and what the material proponent said in the introduction - that drought is already an almost foreseeable natural disaster to occur each year, so once again: the country should, through tax incentives and similar forms, approach to irrigation systems and make maximum efforts to encourage farmers to their own insurance and thus their own survival. In the Slovenian National Party, we will oppose the law because we are assessing exactly what we have said: if we have decided on the so-called market order and if the country already provides financial resources in certain areas, and for farmers, let us make sure that the damage does not occur as well as that we are treating it every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much, buddy. My colleague Vojko Celigoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Rokavec, the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group. First, Comrade Cheligoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters is intended to systematically regulate an area which, in the opinion of the DeSUS Group, is certainly difficult to address in a comprehensive and precise manner. Nevertheless, in our parliamentary group we advocate the establishment of a general legal framework, which we hope and read in law, in situations where we face one or more disasters at the same time, will systematically regulate procedures and aid levels. The DeSUS Group, however, raises some questions about the matter covered by the proposed law. The Ministry of Environment and Space only recognises that only a partial programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture will be processed by September, as we will not have all the data on the level of damage by then. In addition, the procedures for deciding on the use of funds to remedy the consequences of accidents following the letter of the law are long lasting, so that we seriously doubt that the victims will receive the money paid by the end of this year. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we share the dilemmas with regard to the urgency with which we adopt the law under consideration. The ministry's explanations, which led to the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and even at an emergency meeting, as only in this way will the victims be adequately assisted, do not suffice us. Although, in Article 1, the text of the bill explains that the law lays down the conditions and modalities for the use of funds only in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, the further provisions of the law actually affect the budgets of the municipalities. Although the amendments adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment partially abolish this duty, we believe that, before such a difficult subject of law affecting the budgets of municipalities, the opinion of local communities could also be obtained. If the law is adopted in the form proposed by the Government, the full decision on the procedure will be passed on to the government on the level of resources to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and damage. In this way, the National Assembly loses part of its competence to decide in cases of natural disasters, as has been the case so far, with intervention laws. Of course, we do not doubt the proper functioning of all the ministries and commissions involved in the task of allocating funds, but it seems somewhat disputed to us that by means of this law we give the general authority of the government to decide in the event of natural disasters also on the use of budgetary reserve funds in excess of 2% of the budget of the planned budget reserve, since, according to our understanding of the law on public finances, only the National Assembly would approve funds exceeding that amount. We are interested in the parliamentary group - which we are already reminded of by the legislature of the National Assembly - how other natural disasters will be treated that will fall out of this system law. Natural disasters such as the mass occurrence of communicable animal and plant diseases and environmental accidents, as we understand, will not be dealt with under this law, and in such cases there are no beneficiaries, at least under the law under consideration. There is something else we would like to mention and warn in the Group of Members. In fact, insurance for similar cases. We agree with the conclusion that it is necessary to encourage the participation of victims and insurance companies in the financial recovery of the consequences of accidents and damage. This will reduce the burden of state resources. In the parliamentary group, we believe that Slovenia needs a system law in the event of the consequences of natural disasters. This will finally fulfil the government's commitment to the National Assembly in 1995. We also hope that today's debate will convince us that we are today adopting a good law in which our farmers will see and experience the protection of their work to the greatest extent possible by our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Comrade Cheligoy. Mr Rokavec will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, followed by his colleague Weber. First, my friend Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Mr Minister, with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support in principle the law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. In doing so, we point out that the system law, as envisaged and before us, cannot solve, and it is appropriate to solve, natural disasters that occur in a larger scale. We also believe that this system law, which emerged in great haste, on the one hand because of the long-standing hesitation that it came into procedure at all - this law and, on the other hand, because of the opposition's initiatives here, that something should be resolved also in relation to this year's drought. We therefore believe that, on the one hand, it is unlikely that the adoption of such an important law after a rapid procedure already during parliamentary holidays will produce the best fruits. On the other hand, it is likely that beneficiaries who expect assistance will be disappointed, but they will probably not be able to receive it before the end of this year. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we expect that the law will be improved and drunk in the course of today's procedure. In fact, in particular in those segments that talk about faster action; in particular, where there is damage to a greater scale, for example, there is more than 60 per cent where it should be reconsidered whether it would not make sense for the State to enter, in spite of all that, by means of an activative payment to those beneficiaries, so that it would, of course, meet the well-known human river: who is quick to do so, twice. Today, however, we are meeting, literally, the processes in the municipalities where interim reports for the assessment of this year's damage are being collected. According to the Ministry of Defence, these forms will not serve as reliable data for this year's drought, but will only be possible to enforce applications after the adoption of the government programme, which can only be adopted after this proposal is adopted in early September. Thus, it is only then that the procedure for the possible application of damage after this year's drought will be opened and the beneficiaries will be able to obtain the first funds likely towards the end of this year. We therefore stress that it is unlikely that the system law can solve all issues and all natural disasters and that they need to be dealt with in a specific manner according to their scope. And we are confident that it is likely that the procedure will take place, especially after the adoption of this law, to make rapid changes and to supplement this system law. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we estimate that it is necessary for the National Assembly to make this effort and, before this year's holidays, only to give the opportunity to initiate the procedure a second thought, so that it is reasonable to consider whether the most affected would be to give the possibility of write-off of contributions to disability insurance and health insurance. In this way, the country could probably act as quickly as possible. In the parliamentary group, we will support the marriage, probably with very tight teeth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Comrade Webber, now you have the floor. You will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and behind you, Comrade Tanko. Comrade Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everyone. We have also tried to participate constructively in the drafting of the text of this law in the United List of Social Democrats. And to a certain extent, I think we have succeeded. It seems important to us that we are also trying somehow to avoid annual or at least frequent adoptions of intervention laws, which we sometimes adopt under the impression or election or similar events. And many times it happened that then these assessments, which we were trying to write into intervention laws, were unrealistic, which, of course, later caused a lot of difficulties in implementing intervention laws. If this system law removes the practice so far, of course we will take a big step forward. Of course, the issue of resources remains inconsequential, for we also somehow imagined that it would be important to identify some kind of systemic resource to address natural disasters that occur practically every year. We note that in fact, the law provides for all the funds that are already known and actually used to eliminate accidents following a consistent practice. Of course, the law was trying to resolve when the obligation of the State would arise when the congregation’s obligation would arise. And here we believe that there are still some things that are not sufficiently well-designed, and we think that the concept of the law itself should be so designed that up to 0.6 mills or in line with the new text of 0.3 mills of the planned budget would have a special chapter where we would process all the procedures and obligations of the municipalities to this limit - from the appointment of commissions to, of course, the execution of all procedures - but, of course, the state, although there are a number of things prepared in this law, is intertwined in between then the uncertainties that relate mainly to the powers of the State or the congregation. So here is the lack of law in this unclear procedure of jurisdiction, when it comes to, say, the state. However, this is one of the key elements of this law, which attempts to determine powers from one point forward or from the amount of damage that occurs. In addition to the important principle I have presented, we have also drawn attention to the fact that Slovenia is, to a large extent, also - that it has the characteristics of beauty and there are also ingrained accidents on the landscape, so I think that the law is better because it speaks very clearly about intrusions, because many times it refers to property. This property is usually endangered in the long term or there is a need to seek systemic solutions to address the consequences of such an elementary accident, which is certainly part of this system law. However, we believe that one important chapter is completely missing from the law, but this is a chapter of solidarity. Indeed, in all or at least all of these major disasters, solidarity is, of course, always one of the ways of helping to deal with the consequences. Unfortunately, the law of this chapter does not touch, so we believe that in the future we will probably have to pay much more attention to it, because solidarity in Slovenia does exist, exists, and has also proved to be a key element in solving certain natural disasters. And we believe that, of course, this area should also be further processed and, above all, much greater responsibility should be achieved both for those who demonstrate the need for means of disaster management and for those who are, of course, responsible for carrying out all these procedures later; for, if solidarity is involved, then all these controls and mechanisms are significantly greater, and in particular, you are directly responsible for those who have contributed, of course, to the resolution of an accident. Sometimes I feel like we're giving money from the state or municipal budget, that this responsibility is much smaller, which is not good. We'll support the marriage so complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you, colleague Weber. Comrade Jože Tanko will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by colleague Sok, Juban and will conclude the presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and good bye to everyone! In the parliamentary group, we are surprised at the way in which the system law was adopted to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, since we had only two or three days of time from the introduction of the law to today's likely adoption. This is significantly insufficient for a good examination and understanding of the law, which is the basis for preparing appropriate supplements. Such a procedure is appropriate for intervention laws that want to solve certain problems quickly and ensure that the damage and consequences are addressed immediately. Systemic laws, these are roof laws that have been valid for us for a long time, and all we need to do is be more thoughtful and more prudent. This procedure is a kind of natural disaster. The government is expected to intervene in the aftermath of this year's natural disasters, although drought has already occurred very early this year, the government has acted with a decision and has only reacted after the opposition has tried to table its intervention law. Although this was strangely rejected, it only forced the government and the coalition to act. He forced ministers to do more than follow destroyed agricultural areas and other affected locations, plant flowers and pose to the media. In our view, the law is extremely bad, which also confirms the extremely poor opinion of the legislative and legal service and an extremely large number of amendments. Most of them have been tabled by the opposition, but these amendments have been rejected by the Priories. It appears that the coalition is dark in front of the eyes if it sees any proposal from the opposition, even though we can all avoid it, but the great coalition beats them so that it does not amend them, but summarizes them with the amendment of the committee. I would like to draw attention to some of the key weaknesses of the law. The law to remedy this year's consequences does not provide for any payment of the aid, which means that the beneficiaries will not receive anything, and the law is, as it were, intended for themselves. In the event of a natural disaster, the Government or the ILO has provided that the regular system resources of the State and the municipality, which otherwise belong to the specific beneficiary, shall not be paid as a systemic one, but shall be paid to the same beneficiary at the same level, but as a means to remedy the consequences of the natural disaster. For example, this is the same as if the family receiving the child’s allowances were taken away in the event of a family tragedy and were credited to the family at the same height as the reimbursement of funeral expenses. The minimum surface price is again raised, which is for system payments of 20 acres, and one hectare is applied here, which means that only those with larger rounded parcels will benefit from the aid; of course, only if they exceed the lower amount of the area. This is controversial because the government in this area has done nothing. I would point out, however, that only raising the lower limit from 10 to 20 acres in systemic payments amounted to a billion or about 20% less than anticipated. What this leap means, you can only imagine. It also introduces a distinction between protected and unprotected crops. Aid shall be halved for agricultural crops covered. Since the realization of Minister Booth's idea of a diversified insurance company, nothing has come true. It introduces very high amounts to assess when the threshold for obtaining basic accident status is reached, 3 proms or around 450 million damage to the geographically rounded area - high damage, especially in individual events such as reptiles and collisions. The damage may also be significantly lower than 450 million, but the consequences for the affected are extremely severe. Taking into account the above thresholds and other restrictions such as minimum surface area, impact etc., then agricultural owners will receive approximately 10% of the estimated damage. Practically nothing. The law also does not impose any obligations on officials held by the State in the field, that is, in administrative units and advisory services, and carries all the burdens in the municipalities. It is strange, however, that the Slovenian Coalition is the only one willing to expose herself for the good of the countryside. And this law is actually the first compromise, the first point of the coalition relationship rebalance that it concluded on Sunday in Brdo. Since the law does not have any additional effects and burdens, it is insane to accept it at an extraordinary meeting following an emergency procedure, because in this case war is lost. It also makes no sense to correct the entry into force on the following day and not until the 15th day following its publication. However, I would like to draw attention to the practice that has been established recently when we systematically violate another system law with one system law and thereby create a very non-systemic situation. We create legislative chaos and impreciseness, just as one of the most powerful authorities now does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. My colleague Sok will be given the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Minister Kopač concluded his brief presentation with the words that he wished this overheated debate to end. However, Minister, of course, this is not up to this Parliament, this debate will be led elsewhere and you will have to cool it there if you want it. That the marriage was bad, it turns out that the government actually took eight years to prepare the marriage; eight years to prepare it, and then two nights to prepare it. The legislative and legal service had practically comments on almost all the articles of the law, some of the articles of the law even had an explanation, an opinion that they did not understand what they meant. In the end, 150 amendments were made to some 70 articles of the law, despite the fact that Minister Kopač stated that the law was in one-year interdepartmental coordination and that it was drunk to every branch and dot. Otherwise, this bad law is nothing more than a poor synthesis of three laws, namely the Beaches Act, the Earthquake Recovery Act and the Act on Intervention Measures in Agriculture, which we have already implemented in the years 2000 and 2001. If the government really wanted to draft a system law, it should incorporate something systemic into this law. Something systemic would be a new approach. A new approach could be that the government would really start setting up a mutual insurance company, not that even this year the envisaged funds for this purpose were cut off by a rebalancing. So, that's one approach. The second approach would be for the government to develop a irrigation strategy. See, there are large amounts of water flowing through Slovenia, but if the assessment is that droughts are a constant of our meteorological phenomena, then a serious government would be expected to undertake this project and start a certain part of the agricultural surfaces to be irrigated. However, it must be said that the essential condition for irrigation is first of all that we have clean water and second of all is that the market price of the agricultural product is transferred to this additional agricultural operation. In our parliamentary group, we wonder if it is even possible for natural disasters - such as an earthquake in Posoča, or a reptile in Logo under Mangart, or such catastrophic droughts - whether it is possible to work with systemic laws. Our answer is no, and that is also the biggest flaw in this marriage. Look, the law goes into intervention, which is supposed to take place at a one-year delay. So the damage this year is supposed to be calculated or planned in the next year's budget. However, what help is this if someone who has suffered an accident such as this year’s agricultural disaster has to wait one year for help. I have repeatedly warned, and also on the committee, that serious governments do not do so. For example, the Hungarian Government has adopted an immediate aid decision for farmers and has allocated 80 billion forints of aid for this purpose, about 50 billion Slovenian tolars, and farmers will be able to benefit from this aid in August. That's the only real help I can get. What someone can wait one year to get something, of course, is no help at all. So when this law is passed, the law will be without content, and it will give the legitimate right to the government to decide how much, if any, something will be gained. And what can we expect from this law the grain of Slovenia, called Pomurje, the northeast part of the country and, of course, the rest of Slovenia, which are among the most affected? My answer is, not much or nothing. I am even more confident about this because the government has also calculated the eco 0 payments in the calculation of market prices. I asked the minister what he could expect from a farmer who was expected to grow on a hectare of land, 6 to 7 tonnes, desired 2 tonnes of wheat, and for this wheat Mlinnotest offers him 30 tolars per kilogram, while on the other hand one bun costs 100 tolars, or the cheapest bread 400 tolars - his answer, the answer to that question is not given to me. I also agree with what is one of the coalition representatives' principles when he spoke here about socialism and solidarity. In the last two days, we have talked about this a lot, and we have listened to our country's social and solidarity, but I hope to say that in the area of this disaster in agriculture, this sociality and solidarity have not been achieved. It is true, as the President of Parliament said, that hope dies last, and I also think that there is hope for Slovenian citizens and citizens, especially another and a different government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u23	Mr Juban will also present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club. You are our last hope, Comrade Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr President, the House of Respect [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u25	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u26	We will support the amended proposal for a law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and nevertheless welcome the systemic solution of the law, which sets out the conditions and manner in which budget resources are used to remedy the consequences of natural disasters and the conditions and manner in which they are obtained or allocated. The law solves two areas, maybe three. At this point, we all feel a little overheated by the disaster or damage that is causing - still - by the drought. Of course, it is an important second part of the law, which also lays down the conditions and manner in which funds from the State budget are used, the conditions and the way they are allocated in order to remedy the consequences of agricultural damage caused by these disasters. Solutions that may not have been proposed as appropriate in the basic proposal have, through the procedure on the working body concerned - this is on the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food - and later on the working body, the Infrastructure Committee, introduced into the law solutions that ensure the operationality and effectiveness of the law in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters, where we are, of course, unreasonable and moderate. Above all, in the second part, there is much debate at this time on the effectiveness of the law and the various deceptions that concern only drought. At the same time, when we stress that the law is not appropriate, we are talking about the fact that it contains elements of the intervention law; it means that it nevertheless allows for intervention, and that, in this part, there is an intervention and systemic part in it. Recognized or not, especially in those parts of Slovenia where the drought occurs permanently, the drought still persists, the damage has not yet been estimated and we do not know to what extent it will affect the areas, because it may take up to a month of September or longer. The law introduces a new incentive system or incentives for areas that are usually more affected than natural disasters in order to introduce higher levels of insurance and, of course, the law has simultaneously built-in mechanisms that exclude excessive summation of damages that are not intended to exceed the market value of the production itself. There are many debates on the eligibility of local communities. On the one hand, we do not want to hear that the citizens themselves point out that they should also include local communities, in particular the intervention part, which already has reserved funds for such purposes under the second regional law and can, of course, react very quickly in the most urgent cases. We will support the law with the content presented and count on it to achieve its effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Good. Thank you very much, colleague Juban. The National Assembly should now turn to the debate on individual amendments and articles. Some of you are already receiving advance amendments from the New Slovenia Group. I am informed that an overview of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members is being copied. I suppose we'd all agree if we decided now to take a break for a review. Then it will be easier, I think, and the debate will be easier. Is there anyone else who would like to bet that there would be no misunderstandings? [[...]] Thus, amendments have been tabled in the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party. They're on the photocopying machine now. There's one in front of you. We'll do a background check. My friend Rukavec thinks he'd like to invest. Have you filed yet? You will now. Then I think we almost need an hour off to get a check-up on the table. Excuse me? That we're working without a checkup. All I'm asking is if the National Assembly will agree. As far as I'm concerned, this will require a little more attention than yours. We'll go without a checkup. We have to wait for qualified applicants to be put in one way or another. [[...]] Comrade Skull, are you already or are you still going to be? Look! You will. [[...]] [[A consultation.]] [[...]] Please, Comrade Anderlich. Please, Comrade Anderlich. Here you go. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u28	I'm sorry, but I just don't understand this explanation that it's necessary to take a break for someone to table the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u29	I'm sure you don't have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u30	It is clearly defined when amendments are being tabled, and I assume that all amendments are being tabled. If they're not, they'll find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u31	Look, the amendments are, like, filed: one is already photocopying, the other is still to be copied. Now it's just that, or the National Assembly wants us to have a review or not. You don't have to! I know, okay. But I'm asking everyone else not to have any objections. I think it's normal for us to realize that we're just going to go with more documents in front of us. We still need to take a break, colleague Anderlich, because we need to get a closer look at the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party. There's no way to discuss it. I'm sorry. No document in front of us. I guess you'll agree with that. In 30 amendments, he'll be on the bench. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? Wait, I'm in charge of the procedure, and I need to make sure that we decide things very clearly and that there will be no misunderstandings. At least getting a review of the amendments tabled is a minimum condition for the continuation of work. If we don't ask everyone to check it out, it's okay, but everyone has to be in front of us. I'm taking 15 minutes off so we can get all the amendments on the bench at this time. 15 minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u32	We'll continue the session. In particular, I would ask colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party if they could inform me of their amendment which they had announced. You have three documents before you: the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members, the New Slovenia Group of Members and the document of the New Slovenia Group of Members. If I understand correctly, colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party intend to table an amendment to Article 19 so that we can begin our decision-making process. First, we have an amendment to Article 4. May I have your attention, please? I'm going to lead very slowly, so there can't be any misunderstandings. If anyone thinks anything's wrong, please let me know immediately and I'll take your objection into account immediately. Article 4 proposes an amendment by the New Slovenia Group. I'm opening a debate. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we propose that the first paragraph of Article 4 on concepts be deleted. The first paragraph speaks of geographically rounded areas. From experience in the past, we are convinced that in Slovenia geographically rounded areas do not represent what was the intention of the legislator. In assessing damage following a natural accident, when it comes to drought, which is in fact why this law is adopted in this way today in an emergency procedure, the damage from parcel to parcel is different. Slovenia is in such meteorological conditions - and this year this year it has proved extremely successful - that it is indeed necessary to assess damage from parcel to parcel. The slope of the plot itself can substantially change the situation in relation to the damage to a particular agricultural plant. This is easy for all of us in the Slovenian countryside to see, and I do not know why the legislator reintroduces this concept into the law, although you are confident that the criterion of the geographically rounded area has led to a series of severe blood in the implementation of the 2001 law. The European Union guidelines also point out that damage is estimated according to a particular plot, not to a geographically rounded area. This year's rainfall was set up extremely locally; on a very small surface, very much rain could have fallen at the moment, while the remaining area was entirely without adequate rainfall. If you go to Pomurje, to Prlekia, you can find out quickly and nicely. Now I don't know if you're going to do again that Pomurje is geographically rounded up, and then based on the weather station in Murska Sobota, you're going to be assessing all the damage according to this criterion. So it seems to us that this criterion is extremely controversial, so we propose deleting this from the law. Moreover, I will not repeat this debate in another article later on, which speaks of agricultural damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 4? Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It also appears that this concept is a geographically rounded area under this Article 4 because, in fact, in the event of a natural disaster, an area would not meet the conditions for the damage to be recovered. That's probably the result of what the minister said was the last marriage. And this is due to drinking, how to avoid reparations. I must say, for the first time, I have the opportunity to say about the law that it is amazing how in Slovenia he deceives himself, how the minister has literally deceived his Prime Minister, his coalition that it is a forged law, a law that will "keep". We can see that's not true. See, Comrade Sok cited this case in the drought; it is even more drastic at the bay. The hailstone never covers the entire geographically rounded area, the tide goes in the belts and so on. Now someone will invent a geographically rounded area and of course find that there was no harm in one part of the area and that it does not meet the conditions for compensation. The whole law is written because it is unsupervised, complicated, that it will return as little as possible. And I mean, if we don't delete it, this purpose, which has been achieved by drinking, is assured, but I'm against it. I have to be a law - if the compensation law is such that it will allow for damages to be recovered. However, if the government has made a law that complicates to extremes and absolutely does not allow anyone to be compensated, which is in line with the government's thinking, in the past it has been such that the damage, despite being assessed and the decision has been confirmed, has not been paid; now you may have invented and found new ways to avoid this reparation and this dictatorship here is one of such intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u36	Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u37	That is exactly what would have happened, as colleague Jerovšek says, but in the event that we delete this provision of the law. Apparently, the one who does not go into the content - one innocent thing; in fact, it means the story that happened in 2000 and before. When we described the damage in Slovenia, we found out how much resources we have at our disposal, and we shared. Everywhere, even those who didn't have any harm. And when the funds ran out, we went linearly downsizing, and those who did great damage 10, 20% or had 10% or 20% or nothing got too much. However, those who had 80% had never had a covered actual or approximately appropriate fallout. This definition allows what happened in 2001 when we were able to determine the areas where we said, "Do not describe the damage here any more." We should always do this before we approach the damage assessment. I would not like to provoke any colleague from any part of Slovenia. There is no drought everywhere in Slovenia. There are areas where there is no damage after the drought. In the last ten days, I have been transporting the main part of Slovenia and there are areas where there is no drought. That's too bad. If we delete that, that's how it's gonna start. Granted or not, there are no unlimited means and there will never be. If we're just going to share it the way anyone thinks it's gonna be written down, then it won't have any effect. Those who are actually hurt won't get what they should get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u38	Minister. Perhaps, Mr. Minister, Comrade Sok wants a word. [[...]] Would you give a word to your colleague Sok? Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u39	That's how I read this first paragraph. The geographically rounded area is an area of agricultural land where natural disasters have caused the same damage on the same agricultural plant. Then he goes on to mention the morphology of the terrain and the pedological properties. Look, I'll just give it to the Prley area. It's a hilly area. Those who are in the valley and, of course, the most land in the valley are owned by the agricultural land fund in the valleys. This land, at least the larger and larger complexes, are leased to certain agricultural companies, share companies.The plants in these valleys are significantly less affected - for example, corn - than according to where the land is bent. These are huge differences, and that's exactly what happened this year. How will you determine now? The geographically rounded area can be an area for me either of the central, or of the eastern, or of the western Slovenian mountains. In such an arrangement, fellow Member Juban, funds are also received from those who do not have as many plants damaged as those with less favourable positions of their field surface. That's what this is about. Maybe we're misinterpreting each other. I still argue that damage should be done through field areas from parcel to parcel. What happened in 2000 was, of course, the deviation of this because the municipal evaluation committees said some: "Come on, let's estimate 80% to get 40% then." This has happened, but then it can be fixed in another way. This is also now the guardian of this expert committee, which is set here as the one who prepares the final damage report, which, too, would say, his signature that this is credible and relevant. As it is written here, it comes to exactly what you said that some who are not entitled get, while those who have great harm do not get. This is very well observed in nature at the drought in north-eastern Slovenia this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Minister, whenever you want, I'll give you my word. Also reported are colleagues Sušnik, Bajuk and Tanko. Please, Minister, would you like a word? Comrade Sušnik, the minister has been reported before you, but he may want to explain some things that will shorten the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Thank you. I think it's a misunderstanding. Unlike in the 2001 Act, Mr Sok, who was mostly prescribed by you when you filed your so-called intervention law, otherwise than then, this law, if you read Article 4, in its 9th paragraph, speaks of a person being compensated for damage on his specific lands. It is no longer the same as 2001 when it was going to an average area around the geographical area. So what you've read to this first point is not true. But what's funny is that you took it up in your bill, but there's no debate about that right now. This point is only relevant for the verification of the damage, whereas the amount of the damage shall be accounted for in detail in the parcel, as defined in Article 9, paragraph 4. Thus, these arguments, why point 1 should be deleted, are completely unfounded.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Comrades Sušnik, Bajuk and Tanko. Comrade Drought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it was stated in the explanatory memorandum that experience in the preparation of this law has been used to deal with the underlying accidents in the past period. I therefore ask concretely - you have just said that this geographically rounded area is used to verify the damage - on a specific occasion that occurred in June 1994, when storms with abundant rainfall caused geographically limited but high damage in the area of two valleys, narrow pre-alpine valleys in the municipality of Vransko, one narrow pre-alpine valley in the municipality of Tabor and part of the area in the municipality of Zagorje. Where this is taken into account, in such a case, how you define, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 4, a geographically rounded area. I wonder if and how it will then be rounded up as an area to verify the damage, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u44	Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the following questions, and now so much more on the basis of the Minister's interpretation. If we read the first paragraph of Article 4, how the geographically rounded area is defined, I would like to ask how we are going to do this, or how they intend to define this rounded area. Since it says here that the geographically rounded area is an area of agricultural land where natural disasters have caused the same damage on the same agricultural plant. If I understand that correctly, we'll have to go from parcel to parcel. What's the point of this concept anyway? How are you going to determine that? But if so, then I better understand my colleague Sok, who says paragraph 9 is superfluous. What do you want to accomplish with paragraph 9 - if you can explain it to us. Because if you're going to go from plot to plot to even be able to define this single geographical area, then I don't understand why you need some meanness, because you're already asking in there for the same damage. So the ambiguity is obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u46	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u47	Look, I think that this definition of a rounded area serves primarily that the Commission by this expansion or, above all, by marrying borders sets that limit of three proms or that general damage, I don't know, 450 million on some issue, and I think that this item is, I would say, just manipulative. Secondly, which Mr Bajuk has already pointed out, I do not think that conceptual matters are covered in Articles 1 and 9. If we count the average, then we can't talk about the same damage, we can talk about the average damage in sections 1 and 9 - in points 1 and 9; but we can't define the same damage in the first place, and then we can talk about the needs, I don't know what we're talking about average things. I don't think this case is harmonised in this part. Above all, it bothers me that the Commission has the opportunity to define the three millet with the definition of the area and to determine by marriage that we do not exceed these three springs and that the area is not defined as an area affected by a natural disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u48	Dr. Bayuk, you want another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u49	Yes, please. One more thing. It is very difficult to understand the very first paragraph when you go to this definition of a circled area, but it is also a discrepancy, because it begins to detect the same damage, and then they say, if it is a natural accident, which is detected in a wider area, such as drought or frostbite, then we speak, these are roughly the same. The concept must be very clear, you know. In a law that is supposed to be a system law that regulates this matter for the future, we cannot say the same damage in the same paragraph and then about. If it's about, then I think we have to do a little bit of trying, then define what's about to happen, so that we don't let all of this go back to the willful executive authorities, but to the inspectors who will walk from the plot to the plot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u50	Minister, does he want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u51	Look, I think it's a big problem if some people are reading the law for the first time at this meeting of the National Assembly. The debate around the individual articles was already quite intense on the Committee on Agriculture and on the Committee on Infrastructure. I think we've explained things there, and we're going to do it again here, if necessary, even if I don't know how productive this is. In point 1, it should be said that the geographically rounded area here is very precisely defined, and only two criteria are in determining it, and this is the epedal criterion of the precipitation criterion. Even within one particular province, such as Prekmurje or Pomurje, we have several rounded geographical areas according to the composition of the soil and according to the amount of precipitation, of which the relevant meteorological service of course has data. This shall be taken into account in the data used to verify the damage to an individual in accordance with point 9 of paragraph 1 of this Article. Otherwise, I think that the first article, given Mr Bayuk's question, is very clear. The first sentence speaks of equal injury. The same damage is of course - the word "equal" is quite clear in Slovenia. Grušev burn in Gorenjska, on a single pear is exactly the same as the pear burn of a pear in Styria. However, when we talk about a natural disaster that affects not a percentage of plants, such as drought and freezing, we are talking about rounded geographical areas. But we can elaborate even more on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u52	Not from the bench to polyminate, please. My friend Tanko wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u53	Look, I don't think it's right, Minister, that you, Members of Parliament, insult us by saying that we are reading the law for the first time here today. I mentioned earlier in the debate that we had extremely little time. And essentially too little to study it well and to understand it well, so that we can discuss it qualitatively. Well, your power is to drive these things by the speedy government, and that's why such things happen. Let's say, this comment is much more appropriate to direct it to someone from your Members. There, Mr. Jakich may not have seen him, except that he reads it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u54	Please, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u55	But once again, if I'm reading point one in this first paragraph, it says the same thing. If we have a thousand of the same things, then we don't need any averages because the average is the same. I'm talking about the Olympic standard, for understanding. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u56	Comrade Tanko! You don't need to mention individual colleagues. However, everyone else must not object to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u57	I don't think these things fit together. I would say once again that I think the first point is manipulative and that the definition of the geographically rounded area is intended for a more commission or for commissions to determine by this marriage whether the intended damage from which it is considered to be a natural disaster is still within or outside the borders. And I think that it will be possible to deal substantively with the consequences or effects of this law that should have on those who should have benefited from these natural disasters.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u58	Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u59	But this last one, I have to say, is malicious drowning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u60	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u61	In fact, the rounded geographical area is - let's take a drought for example - a rounded geographical area - this moment I don't even know exactly how to say it, there's probably one part of Gorička, and at least two different plain parts of Prekumrje and so on. And you say: this article is here to set a threshold at which the state budget enters into dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. This, of course, is a completely flawed logic. If drought exists, the threshold for entering the state budget shall be that of the whole country, from the Italian to the Hungarian borders. And it totally doesn't matter how many rounded geographical areas are within Slovenia: either one or one hundred. For the amount of drought as a condition for the threshold, as a threshold for the entry into the state budget, is calculated in the territory of the whole country. Therefore, of course, I must strongly demente this hint of yours or this malicious hint, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u62	Of course, I will give my word to anyone who demands it because this is what the rules of procedure set out. But the theme continues. Comrade Sok wanted a word first, then Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u63	He could have replied to the Minister's conclusion that such non-compliances as are written in this law can actually be observed by anyone, even though he is reading the law at the meeting itself. I think and agree with my colleague Tank that the majority of the members of the coalition who sit in this national council of this law are nowhere near [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u64	Comrade Sok!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u65	She didn't read it. [[...]] Not because I didn't want him. They didn't have time. In two or three days, who could have studied the law that was actually written here in the National Assembly, despite your statements as to how well he was prepared and so on. That is how I would ask you, Mr Minister, if you do not want to open unnecessary debates to refrain from such assessments, because we are Members here to read the law, even today at this meeting. It'll be enough time for the whole marriage to be read if anyone wants it. In fact, our fellow Member, Dr. Bajuk, has pointed out that you speak of the same injury once and that you speak of the same harm again. And if the law is not clearly written, then, of course, it cannot in practice mean some clear implementation. It comes down to the fact that the Ministry has to interpret the law. And then he's interpreted by a twisted way that suits him. That's what this is about. And that warning is very much in place. However, I still think that this criterion of geographical rounding in relation to paragraph 9 can actually be drawn from this Article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u66	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, no matter how you feel, if we ask you a question, I must ask you again because you have not answered me. If you can explain to me, not only personally, but for a magnetogram and history, once this has been adopted, as obviously everything is accepted here - can you explain how the government understands the word as a proponent around? Is that 5%, 7, 11, 27, 42? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u68	Would you like another word, Minister? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to say why this term in point 1 and those other in point 9 is used. The term in point 1 is intended for verification, i.e. to the Commission, which verifies the damage it has suffered. In particular, verification refers to a geographically rounded area. Here, the Commission sees if the damage is consistent in some sense and also gives an opinion in the verification procedure that there may be any damage, any damage to the claim outside what is expected in the geographically rounded area. However, while the amount of damage to an individual shall be determined on the basis of its damage claims, in the manner referred to in point 9. That's the difference between 1st and 9th, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u70	Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u71	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but obviously we don't understand each other. This difference, the concept of equality and roughly the same, is not between the first and ninth paragraphs of Article 4 and the first paragraph of Article 4. In the same paragraph, we have two concepts, one that requires equality, and the other we have about equality. And I'd like to know what you're taking for granted, or it's going to be roughly like I said 5, 6, 8, 42%, because we need to know. Among other things, what are the consequences then for public finances, and how will the people, the inspectors, who will work under this law, be around - whether they will depend on each other individually? How's this thing gonna go? I think clarity is a fundamental requirement when it comes to law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u72	Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u73	Something we should understand or admit that we are mostly thinking about drought now, whether we want to or not. [[...]] And admitted or not, the drought is due to a lack of rain, which then reflects differently where the heat is higher and is, say, a pebble type of soil that quickly leaks moisture, and otherwise reflects where the temperatures are slightly lower and where the soil is deep. At this point it's not in a country that would say exactly, here, anywhere, it's that much, exactly 27.5% -- it's not in a country that can assess it. To estimate approximately within some areas where we had 250 litres per square metre or 1,250 litres per square metre, there are large differences. Then there are some other areas and where there's a lot of precipitation, for example, damage from 0 to a few percent, where there's little rainfall, for example, between 50 and 100% of the damage. And within these percentages is then the 9th point, where individual farms and individual plots are searched, which are on the pebble type of soil, on some intermediate or other, but which suffers less from drought. Basically, however, the amount of precipitation is the one that is more or less affected or not by individual areas. And I think it's better not to delete it or trigger it just to assess the damage and share the money in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u74	A colleague of mags. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u75	I don't think we understand each other at all. I didn't think you'd have to answer. However, if you put "approximately the same" into the legal standard, then you have to define what "approximately the same" is. Then it means standard deviation or discrimination. They're roughly the same because the damage is at a height, for example, 60 to 100%. This is about the same thing and define it inside. Or 50 to 100 are about the same. Just tell me what it is. Legal stuff can't handle it. This is what Bajuk asks and rightly asks. He's asked five times already! But answer in a language that is understandable what is about the same. A derogation has to be said. About the same - how much tolerance do you give, what about tolerance? Is it about the same as all the ones where 10 to 100% are damaged? Only those up to 10% are not about the same. Tell me, for God's sake, what do you want with it?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u76	Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. The government regulation is one which is in accordance with this law, which, of course, determines the procedure of geographically rounded areas. And that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u78	Good. The National Assembly will now move on to the decision-making process. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u79	Excuse me, Mr. President, but I have to take this. So the National Assembly will now accept that the government will decide on a sub-law on its own what is about and what is not. Did I understand you correctly, Mr. Secretary of State? Because I'm having trouble with these submarital acts that never come in a day. This always occurs to us, and I am not prepared for the National Assembly to renounce its duty to write down the law in such a way that it will not have to fix things, either on the basis of how much money money may or will not remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u80	Comrade Tanko, look, when I'm done with this debate, there's only going to be an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u81	Just one more question. In fact, in what kind of submarital act will this be determined? Under this law there is no provision for any sub-law on this subject. No sub-law is provided for on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u82	Good. Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. Please, there's no dialogue over the parliamentary bench! May I have your attention, please? If anyone thinks there's something wrong with the procedure, give me an immediate warning. So we are on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 4. We're voting! 51 present, 14 to and 34 to. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] This amendment was rejected. Dr. Bayuk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u83	Mr President, you have concluded the debate!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u85	You concluded the debate as soon as Comrade Tanko asked where the law stated that this sub-law would ever be drafted. There was no answer, we closed the debate and we voted quickly. If we continue to do so, then I suggest that we give all the amendments a quick vote, and that you go home well, because you obviously don't care about the debate. [[...]] He's not answering the questions! Why are we even here? If it's a voting machine, let's do it, because it'll be over in two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u86	Let's be a little more right to each other. You called three times or four times, and I gave you my word four times. You have the right to wait! [[...]] Now I'm talking! You have the right to do so, and I gave you my word every time. If the Secretary of State or the Minister does not wish to speak, they are not obliged to answer any questions. That's what I need you to tell me. I can't force them. You can answer or you can't. And you've spoken to her twice. And if there's some silence in the hall for a while, we won't wait five minutes to finish the debate. Please. So we voted on Article 4, and now we're at 5. Here I would like to remind you that the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party and of New Slovenia have tabled the same amendment to Article 5. I'm putting this up for debate now. Who wants a word? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u87	See, this solution, as provided for in Article 5, paragraph 9, is one of those not suitable for this law. In this part, the system payment, which goes as a compensation, shall be accounted for in the case of an elementary accident in the quota of an elementary accident. Before I presented my position on behalf of the parliamentary group, I pointed out that this was about the same as if the family that happened to her, I don't know, a family tragedy, children's documents were used to pay for funeral expenses. And then, until this is settled, this document would not be given to this family. That's about the way it is. And I don't think we can agree to such a solution, and I think that those in the government who are covering this area that is going, say, from the agency's resources should respond to this. In this way, to deal with elementary disasters and the consequences of elementary accidents, so that the system assets that are regular, annual, are accounted for, are included in the recovery of the consequences for those who have experienced this accident, I do not think it is appropriate. And these funds should be absolutely excluded from the quota of these payments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u88	My friend Sok. By the way, colleague Sok, before I give my word, we are now divided into examinations of the amendments tabled, so that it will be easier for all of us to follow the decision. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u89	We believe that Eko 0 payments are not part of this law. Slovenia has introduced eco-0 payments due to the common European agricultural policy. Eco-0 payments have been agreed in negotiations, about which you have explained so much how successful they have been and we have ourselves confirmed that they have been successful.Now, at once, Eco-0 payments are mentioned in the settlement or calculation of costs in natural disasters such as drought, cold and so on in agriculture. Eco-0 payments have a completely different purpose. Why are they paying? They pay for the first time per hectare or per head of livestock. And now it would be charged to someone and calculated at the market price of their agricultural production. This is simply not possible, because Eco-0 payments are intended to be just that the market price is lower than the production price - due to a large supply on the market. And with these Eco-0 payments, one part of what the agricultural producer does not get in this sector and represents production costs is to be compensated. I suggest that you gentlemen from the government think carefully about this proposal, if that is the case with this law. I am sure that he does not judge, and please, we will conclude this debate quickly, support this amendment, vote on it and we can go through it. Well, that would make sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u90	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Rokavec, I didn't see you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment, and for a very simple reason, because if we are to write into the law what is now proposed that in deciding on the amount of funds to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture, it is necessary to ensure that the sum of the funds allocated under this law and the funds allocated as a payment of the insured amount - so I would say that it is still true. However, if we add to this a source of funds allocated from the state and municipal budgets as a direct payment to agriculture in accordance with the rules governing indirect and direct payments in agriculture - it is not greater than the market value of the loss of agricultural produce. See, if this text persists, then literally in a particular case of drought we will mislead the injured, literally misleading them with this provision. Expressly speaking, each farmer must, in spite of everything, take over the land, take care of appropriate agri-technical measures, whether it is dry or not. Or if the drought is even bigger. Also on the lawns, the second cut was quite a bit stingy, but nevertheless it must also implement all the needs of agritechnical measures. Here we will first determine the damage, and then we will say, "Yes, because it receives direct payments per hectare, because according to the European Union guidelines it is a contribution to the environmental regulation of this area, not to market order." But since it's a direct loss of income, then we'll literally be aware of the damages. And I very much ask that this amendment be accepted and that we do not make such a large family of this marriage, because then the pare will be just a letter on paper, and in the final stage there will be almost nothing for the rehabilitation of this year's drought. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u92	Secretary of State Simončič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Therefore, this is covered, the real European Union contracts, which also provides that direct payments are considered to be in the form of such aid and that the total amount of both compensation and insurance or direct payments shall not exceed the market value of that crop. Well, that'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u94	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u95	Well, perhaps it should be said that we do not know whether this law is compatible either with the directive or with anything in the European Union. He doesn't have a single attachment to this topic. We have also asked this question on the Infrastructure Committee and simply force us to take your word for it. There is no annex to discuss whether this matter is coordinated or not. And secondly, it's a purely technical matter. In this case, if this remains in law, as it is written, only changes Eco-0, we change the name and write "recovery for damage in a fundamental accident." There's nothing else. And these people will get paid this year too, but not as an eco payment, but as a side-formed payment called "recovery of damage after major accidents this year." You don't get anything else. I told you before: instead of child support, you'll get a funeral. There's no difference! There's no money from this address! But I don't think this government can afford the one who proposes it. The EKO-0 is a dedicated part and, for what it is intended to do, the reparations are another purpose, it has another content and is intended for the elimination of purely other things. And these things should be transparent and separate, not moving it from the budget line to the budget line and pretending to help someone, but actually taking it to the second item - the same thing at the same height. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u96	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer one more question. It is that this law has been introduced into the procedure since the adoption of the new agricultural policy within the European Union, namely, this agricultural policy provides for farm pay, not so much to the extent of production associated with damage, and I ask - I am sad or disappointed that I cannot ask the Minister for Agriculture, given that this is a systemic law that should address the recovery of damage in the coming period - how, lastly, this provision has also been coordinated with a newly created or newly established agricultural policy in the area of unnecessary payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u98	Secretary of State. Speak more out loud, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. The first, of course, is the damage or calculation of the damage that is coming back - so that's that merodically, it says, up to 40% of the damage. In total, these funds and these specific payments and, of course, insurance, must not exceed the market value of the crop itself. Secondly, as regards the change in European agricultural policy. Therefore, all direct payments will be transformed into a single payment, where countries will still have the opportunity to exempt and continue to drive certain payments as direct payments either for crops or for dairy cows. In this case, therefore, there will be a separation if this is indeed a direct payment. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] otherwise it may be considered an indirect payment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u100	Does anyone else want to discuss it? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u101	Simple as that, no. Once again, I say that eco payments are related to production costs. Eco payment per hectare of wheat is due to the price of a kilogram of wheat is 30 tolars and not 42 tolars. And this is one part of the European common agricultural policy. Then why operate on natural disasters with these direct payments? It doesn't make any sense! How did you come up with this idea to account for the market price, but if direct eco payments are not made due to market prices but due to production prices? They have a completely different purpose - I don't know, the purpose of a stabiliser, what our government sometimes explains to us about these stabilisers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u102	Anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Since the amendments of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party are identical in content, we will therefore decide on their amendments to Article 5. We're voting! We're in the middle of a vote. 47 in attendance, 13 in and 30 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 30.]] This amendment has not been supported. We have tabled an amendment to Article 6 of the Social Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. I'm opening a debate. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u103	Just for a little while. Look, in the way envisaged in 6th and even in another later article, regulating these things, I don't think it's best because the register of agricultural holdings, I don't think it's yet, isn't in place. And when these things are put in place, only a circle of beneficiaries is drawn to the possibility that they will be compensated for the consequences. In this way, I do not think it is appropriate to resolve these intervention issues - by reducing the number of beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u104	Anyone else want a word? Comrade Sušnik, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. In the second paragraph of Article 6, which deals with prohibitions or when funds may not be allocated, it is literally stated that the means to remedy the consequences of accidents must not be allocated in order to remedy the consequences of a natural accident on matters resulting from an unauthorised intervention into the premises or on matters owned by a person who, by an unauthorised intervention into the premises, caused the occurrence of an accident. This also addresses the consequences of natural disasters on a number of public roads, local roads, forest roads that were not built because they were made, as they were done in the 1970s, 80s without any administrative permission. In view of the second interpretation, if this second paragraph of Article 6 is explicitly taken into account, it is possible to impose damages on certain things - the municipal public infrastructure, as I have already said, and roads and public roads, local roads, forest roads, which do not have an administrative authorisation, is also considered. Because if you are saying that you need to have permission to intervene into space, it is also considered that we have administrative permission to do so. And with the full respect of the second paragraph of Article 6, it is virtually impossible to apply aid or means to remedy accidents at all these countless facilities that we have and know in local communities. On the other hand, government money and everything, with the involvement of budgetary money, was made without the number of forest roads, a train which, at the same time in the opinion of the profession, are also the causes of natural disasters, whether directly or indirectly, both of the beaches of a smaller or larger size as additional contributing areas or as a flood of a larger volume. I would like to interpret this matter, although it does not directly apply to the amendment, because we have already faced in the past when dealing with the consequences of natural disasters in 1990, 1994 and 1998, and we have been told by the Ministry's professional workers that it will only be possible to impose damage on those facilities which have a useful permit. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u106	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. This isn't about this amendment right now. However, if you ask, the construction law has already regulated the legalisation of such roads and the like in the transitional provisions. That way, I mean, there's no problem. As for the amendment itself and Mr Tank's arguments, I must say that the absence of a register of agricultural holdings is regulated as a problem at this point in Article 69, which is a transitional provision. And, of course, it is inappropriate for the systemic part of the law, as you propose, to introduce a provision that would at this moment extend this problem of the absence of the registry to many years to come. Therefore, I think that what you want to do is already properly regulated in Article 69.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u108	I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. 47 in attendance, 10 in and 32 in. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We have two amendments to Article 8 of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. I am opening a debate on the amendments and the article. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u109	In Article 8, two or three things seem to us inadequately solved. Firstly, it seems inappropriate for us to have a commission made up of five officials from different sources to have more power and confirm proposals from the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Agriculture. I think this is inadequately resolved. In our view, they can prepare these bases, receive them and submit them to the government, not the other way around. However, the second point relates to the inspection part, in Article 66, the competence to determine the correctness of the use of funds is determined, namely that it is granted to inspection services. In this part, however, this supervision over the use of funds and the determination of unintended or unjustified expenditure shall be imposed on the Commission. I don't think this thing is properly solved. And I would add the first amendment to the fourth, seventh and eighth indents in the first paragraph. The second paragraph remains the same. I think it would make sense for these two commissions to have jurisdiction or commission to advise on the resolution of natural disasters. That would make the content more logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u110	Anyone else want a word? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u111	In our Group of Members, we support this amendment. In fact, it is illogical that the Commission appointed by the Ministry approves the Ministry's proposal. This is actually a transfer of responsibility from the Ministry to the Commission. The matter should be put exactly the opposite: the Ministry approves the Commission's report. This is to delete the 4th indent of the first paragraph and the 7th indent to determine the unjustified allocations of funds by the Commission. Will this commission carry out the work of inspections and walk on the ground and find out if the law makes it clear that it is the agricultural inspection that oversees the implementation of this law? So this is a duality of procedures and I propose that this amendment be supported or that it be replaced with a view to confirming the proposal. So that the Ministry should take this position, but not that it places this responsibility on the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u112	Fourth, seventh and eighth indents. Thus, the text of the amendment to Article 8 tabled by the SLS Group of Members has now been found by colleague Tanko and the Secretary-General, so please remember, in the first paragraph, the fourth, seventh and eighth indents are deleted. Dude, Dr. Bayuk wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u113	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, I would also like to support this amendment, particularly because I am deeply concerned that if this is accepted, then that responsibility is also somehow divorced. Ministers are responsible before the National Assembly. Now he's going to appoint one commission and then the commission can change - and then what? This is totally out of harmony, not just with common sense, especially in accordance with our constitutional arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u114	Can I close the debate? I'm closing the debate. We therefore have a decision on the two amendments tabled. I have said the addition of the text of the first text tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members and we decide on it. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. 46 in attendance, 26 in and 16 in. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are now voting on the second amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. 49 in attendance, 19 in and 25 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We conclude the debate on Article 8. We are moving on to the debate on Article 10, where we have two amendments tabled. The first was introduced by the New Slovenia Group and the second Social Democratic Party Group. Although I always look at it, it is not always necessary to take the floor, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Article 10 refers to the source of funds in the event of natural disasters and Article 10, paragraph 1, states: "The means to remedy the consequences of accidents shall be provided for each calendar year in the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia." Of course, the question is, what if there is a major natural disaster, then how to provide funds to remedy such a natural disaster? And we actually wanted to improve this law by proposing to add a new paragraph to this paragraph, which reads: "If the means to remedy the consequences of natural disasters in the state budget are not sufficient, they shall be ensured by the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia." It would seem logical and reasonable for us to have a government and a national assembly, if it is already a system law, to intervene if a larger-scale accident occurs, but not to set up a set of strict rules and then not know how to proceed in such a case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u116	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u117	I myself agree with the proposal tabled by Nova Slovenija, mainly because it introduces the necessary flexibility into the law; there is no such flexibility in the solution, as is now the case. And the law is designed to ensure that the assets of current elementary accidents are provided in the following year. More or less in the following year, since from the previous year we have borne those fixed old burdens. I think that this matter needs to be complemented so that the national assembly and the proposer, in this case the government, can react quickly and appropriate measures are taken to remedy these consequences quickly. The second thing is also our amendment, which we have tabled in this article, which is in some way harmonisation, I think with Article 1, because the content and purpose of the law are first broken and introduced in this Article, I would say that this uncomfortable matter is that the law also affects the resources of the municipal reserve. I think that in this part about consistency we should also seriously consider. Article 1 has not been corrected and I think that all these further articles relating to municipal resources should be adequately remedied and simply eliminated. We are talking about a law that assigns tasks to the state, not to the congregations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u118	I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group under order number 1. We're voting. 52 in attendance, 17 in and 33 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We will now decide on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, please, for peace in the hall! 52 present, 16 in, 33 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 33.]] I find that this one has not received the necessary support either. By article 11, two amendments have been tabled in your review by deciding first on the amendment under order number 2 and then on the amendment under order number 1. It is said, first of all, about the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and then about the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. If the first one is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. Are things procedurally clear? We can decide. The debate, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. The third paragraph of Article 11 discusses this; it is now corrected; the Government's proposal was different. That is, that the State budget may be used if the consequences of the natural disaster are greater than 0.3 per cent of the national budget; that is, the planned revenue of the State budget. And I ask the government, what if, in accordance with Article 23, the beach takes away, destroys a building, and in some cases some activity is carried out. Of course, the value of this damage does not exceed 0,3 per cent of the State budget. How will we handle such cases? In the area of Slovenia there are many such damage when individual beaches carried off individual buildings. Does this mean, then, that, under this law, those citizens who have experienced such a natural disaster are not justified by any means under this system law?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u120	Anyone else want a word? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u121	In this article, I think that even with this correction adopted by the Committee, these funds are not sufficiently reduced, especially in cases where local accidents occur, for example, in some of the collisions that we have brought in as a repair or, say, at some beach, I think that the amount of funds where intervention starts should be reduced to a substantially lower level than anticipated, I do not know, 400 or 450 million after this solution, we propose 100 million. But I'd like to propose one more thing. This third paragraph shall contain a conditional solution. It is said that the state decides and can intervene, but it may not. I propose that, in the first indent and in the second indent of the third paragraph, whether or not the amendment proposed will be adopted, the word'may' be deleted. It is said that the text would read: "The State budget funds are used to eliminate..." in the first and the same in the second indent. In addition, I propose that the sum should be reduced mainly for the reasons I said earlier, two houses are carried out, the damage is not for 0.3 mills, but the consequences for those affected by this accident are catastrophic. I think that in this case this thing should be really reduced and done in a comparable way, or that people will have any help from this, not that it will just be a dead letter in marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u122	Anyone else? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Once again, we will first decide on the amendment under order number 2. It is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to delete Article 11, paragraph 3. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. This is an amendment from the New Slovenia Group. 46 in attendance, 12 in and 31 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 31.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support he needed. We will now decide on the proposal of the Group of Members or the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. We're voting. We're on the verge of a conundrum. Do I give you a short break or do we just go on? Shall we continue or give you a short break? Look, we're on page three, we're still 13 pages ahead of us. As far as I'm concerned, we can keep going, just so we don't be on the edge all the time. I'll put it to the vote again. May I have your attention, please? I'll put an amendment to the vote under order number two. This is an amendment to the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting! Let's be careful, please! Do you agree to give 20 minutes instead of 10 minutes and then continue without breaks? Excuse me? I believe that someone might want to slow down quickly and 20 minutes is enough, but 10 minutes is enough, not by sticking to the agreement that attendance would not be a problem. 20 minutes of rest. We'll pick it up at 1:00. Excuse me? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I understand, but if we have more than 10 minutes off, it won't do any good to close the meeting first. We'll pick it up at 1:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u123	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We'll wait for colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I understand that we have reached an agreement, a longer recess, but that is why we will participate in the meeting until the end, without intermediate interruptions. That's how I'm gonna lead the session. I'll wait a few more minutes. Please, anything to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u124	I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues once again, and perhaps also the secretaries of the Group of Members, if they help to warn their colleagues and colleagues that the meeting is to continue. We're on page three of the 16 pages of the review. So we have a lot of work to do. If this extended break has been useful now that there will be no further interruptions, that is fine, but please come to the hall. Following the meeting of the National Assembly, the College will meet. There we will certainly consider item 1 in accordance with the timetable, and then we will decide whether or not we will consider everything else. The first point is because it is related to the timetable. The College will meet immediately after the meeting of the National Assembly. I'll put it to the vote now. If there's not enough to attend, I won't consider this a reason for a new break, just to figure out how many of us are in the hall. We will vote on the proposal of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, on their amendment, which you have under order number 1 to Article 11. We're voting. If there's not enough to attend, I won't consider that a reason to approve a new ten-minute break. However, we vote on the article. We're voting. We vote on the amendment to the article. Please let's see how many of us are in the hall at the same time. No, no. I said there was no third vote because we ordered a longer recess. We'll wait a few minutes for colleagues to come to the hall. Please come to the hall because we're waiting for you. We're on the verge of a conundrum. Please be a little tolerant of others, because not everyone can slow down in such a fast time. We started at 10:00 p.m., some of them were here by 10:00 p.m. last night, so a little tolerance won't be too much. May I have your attention, please? I understand that we have reached an agreement that we will now work without delay or without further breaks until the end. We are under the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 11 [[it is listed under order number 1 in the review]] . We're voting. 50 in attendance, 11 in and 34 in. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. On the 4th page of the review we have an amendment to Article 12, which has not been subject to amendment on the home working body and is therefore irrelevant. We go to Article 13, where the Socialist Party's Group proposes an amendment to this Article. Can we make a decision? Comrade Tanko, a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u125	Here we propose that the third paragraph be completed with only one word, one key thing, this is the way to finance. It's all predetermined, but they're missing, as it says here, sources how it's going to divide.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u126	Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We decide on the proposal by the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to Article 13. We're voting. 51 present, 14 to and 32 to. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We have three amendments to the Socialist Party's Group of Members and two amendments to the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 14. I am opening a debate if anyone wants a word, otherwise we will vote in order. My friend Sok. If the first amendment is adopted, the second amendment is irrelevant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. The New Slovenia Group proposes that the third paragraph of Article 14 be deleted. This paragraph states: "The means to implement the disaster management programme in the financial year in which the budget reserve in accordance with Article 10 is not provided in order to remedy the consequences of accidents," here I would point out that we have proposed an amendment so that, in accordance with Article 10, a rebalance can be adopted, but you did not want to adopt this amendment, "the users of the budget, which includes the implementation of the disaster management programme, are ensuring, in the context of their financial plans. This essentially means that if the budget does not provide funds to address the consequences of natural disasters, it is necessary to provide funds from the Ministry, in which the implementation of a specific programme is the responsibility. I ask representatives of the government, and we have not been given an answer on the committee as to how they imagine it. As a result of such provisions as provided for in Article 10, this law is empty and cannot be implemented as such. This does not represent any systemic solution. How will you provide funds in the Ministry if they are not provided in the budget? Or redistribution? In a way, I just don't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u128	I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. If the first amendment is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. With this warning, we are moving to a vote on it. 52 present, 13 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment was not accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We vote on the amendment under order number 2, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. 51 in attendance, 11 in and 36 in. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The New Slovenia Group is also proposing an amendment under order number 3. We're voting! 52 in attendance, 12 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. By article 17, we have tabled an amendment by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting on him. 55 present, 15 for and 39 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The amendment shall be tabled by the same parliamentary group at Article 19. We decide on the amendment of Article 19 of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We're voting. I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Comrade Webber. I'm calling off the vote. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. When reviewing, the texts we have before us today, to monitor the content of the new amendments, I note that we adopted a supplement on the Committee on Agriculture or Infrastructure yesterday, which allows co-financing of the elimination of natural disasters in private forests as well. However, the law itself had previously allowed for the elimination of accidents in state forests in article 16. I find that the solution to the law is flawed because it does not, in fact, solve all owners. After this addition to the committee, it is a matter of being able to inflict harm on a person in private law, including natural persons, foreigners and, of course, the church. This framework, however, completely excluded municipalities or persons of public law. This has created a small problem in this article, in my opinion, with regard to equality, I will say, before the law or constitution. I think that this article should be supplemented before the final adoption in that it is possible for municipalities or public bodies to exercise the right of compensation. To that end, this Article should then be supplemented. I would like to point out that in agrarian communities, where no new owners or new beneficiaries are known, they have been transferred to their own municipalities to large-scale forest complexes. It is also necessary to finance, in accordance with forest management plans or with all-season programmes that are necessary when one of the phenomena of elementary disasters occurs, the removal of the consequences in these forests. However, it is relatively large areas, or these areas, that are becoming increasingly dependent on procedures that are long-lasting, where the agrarian community has once been or where it does not fully recover from former agrarians. The article itself can be improved in such a way that, in the second paragraph of this Article, the words ‘privately owned’ are deleted, in effect everybody is entitled to the effect of the damage. In the first sentence of the second paragraph, the provisions of Articles 17, 18 and 20 should be added in addition to the provisions of Article 16. With these two corrections, in my view, the law would be in line with all legal and constitutional standards and probably have no comments on this Article. If possible, I'd like to ask the government's opinion on this. If this text could be clarified, this would also be one of the proposals, I would say, an amendment I am giving orally if I were acceptable to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u130	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 19. We're voting. 52 in attendance, 12 in and 32 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment didn't get any support. In the review, you note that the amendment tabled in Article 20 is irrelevant because it was not an amended article on the parent working body. We are going to the three amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party or its parliamentary group under Article 32. Can we make a decision? My friend Tanko wants to discuss it before he does.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u131	This 23rd Article establishes provisions governing the amount of the compensation or the amount of the aid. We can find that in this and also in the following articles there are very different types of injuries or objects. We propose with this amendment that this slightly higher aid will somehow be implemented both for facilities that are not insured and for those that are insured. We propose not to separate those facilities in which the owner carries out the activity and those facilities in which the lessor carries out the activity. Therefore, we also propose deleting the second paragraph. As I said, all these other corrections, which are also in some of the following articles, that I will not take the time, go solely in the direction of correction and in the direction of correcting the amount of compensation or the amount of aid to which individual injured persons are entitled from these different purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u132	Can I close the debate? [[Yeah.]] We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We'll do it in a row. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 23. We're voting! 53 present, 13 to and 35 to arrive. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] This amendment did not receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 52 present, 14 for, and 34 against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 34.]] This one didn't get any support either. And we'll decide on the third. We're voting! 51 in attendance, 13 in and 34 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Free 34.]] With Article 25, we have four amendments tabled. I'm closing the debate. No! [[...]] Would you like a word, Comrade Tank?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u133	I would only warn in this article [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u134	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u135	Two things. [[...]] One refers to a standard for housing or the part or apartment where a family home is concerned. I don't think the standards that are written here with such small squares of the apartment house can be built. This could refer to some, I'd say, containers or more barracks. Therefore, these standards should be corrected several times. I also think that the legitimate issue is also in our 4th amendment, where we are talking about a comparable environment. I think that these things need to be taken into account where they arise in some way, not to take, say, relationships for cities, for Ljubljana, but to use this somewhere in Bovec. That is why I think this proposal is justified enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u136	I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, on the amendment under order number one. The amendment is tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We're voting! 58 in attendance, 16 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. The amendment did not receive the necessary support. 54 in attendance, 17 in and 33 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. 55 present, 18 for, 34 versus. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 34.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. And we're voting on the last quarter. 54 in attendance, 18 in and 34 in. The amendment didn't get any support. On the ninth page of the review, you have an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 26, but this is not relevant because this article has not been supplemented and amended on the home working body. Thus, we are in the case of the four amendments tabled to Article 34. I'm opening a debate. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u137	Thank you very much. It seems that this debate does not make sense, but if we have already prepared the amendments, at least they should be presented because of the magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u138	Can I have a pardon, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u139	Thank you. The first and fourth amendments of the New Slovenia Group speak of the fact that when the budget reserve is not sufficient to pay for the natural disaster in order to ensure the possibility of a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in this system law. But you've already turned it down in two articles, voted against it, so it doesn't make sense to talk about it anymore, but obviously you don't want to. In fact, we have tabled the third amendment on the proposal of the parliamentary group of nationalities, and Mrs Marija Possonec has tabled it. The same dictatorship was also proposed by the Council of State and I believe that there is also an agri-land chamber. This third amendment, however, speaks to all those who have suffered injury as farmers, as a result of this year's drought, as an actuarial asset, amounting to 25% of the estimated damage, according to data from the damage assessed by the municipal commissions. This is if the affected people will wait after this year's drought for the payment of funds under this law, which we believe in the opposition will not be enough, then it will be delayed by the end of the year or perhaps even next year. We therefore propose that you support at least this third amendment to Article 34. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u140	Comrade Tank, there is no fifth paragraph in this article. And you're proposing an amendment to delete it. That's what the Secretary General has just warned you. Please explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u141	There is also some mistake at this rate that we are subjected to at work and to the consideration of this law. I would again like to point out here that this second paragraph should be considered and that the damage to agriculture programme should be deleted, it is said that these eco payments are maintained in some way. And the second is what Comrade Sok has already said. I think that it is right to provide for some acknowledgment, that for this year's natural disaster or drought, at least some of these funds are paid and that people get at least some of it for the start of new production or for the purchase, if not the other, of the feed they need for their own production. I would therefore suggest or request that both amendments be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u142	When we vote, let us take into account that the text of the amendment under order number 2 reads: 'In the second paragraph, the word link 'from the programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture' shall be deleted'. The following ‘fifth paragraph is deleted’ is no longer relevant. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me. [[...]] A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I will talk about the third amendment, which I have already said earlier today on behalf of the Group of Members. It's the next one. If Article 34 is adopted as proposed, it is almost certain that none of the drought beneficiaries will receive a tolar this year. If I go in the right order. The government will first be able to adopt the programme by mid-September. Then this program will mediate [[all applications]] the municipalities, which will take over the municipal commissions for the list of damages. And it will happen at the end of October when all the data for this year's damage is collected. Then the administrative procedure and the processing of applications will be followed. We may have the first decision of the competent institutions at Christmas. However, with the amendment under point 3, in those cases where the drought is now clearly proven, and what is now happening in the municipalities, where data for a partial assessment of the damage is also collected according to the Ministry of Defence's instructions, could serve as an indication of this actuarial payment. Here there will be excuses, but these data cannot serve, serve only as a possible record, as an intermediate data to know what the sum of the damage assessment is after the chandelier, after the drought, and so on. However, if we want to help people, we can also help them in this way, in order to give them a partial deposit, and in the final decision, we can make the final payment. Where there's too much, someone's gonna have to return, where there's not enough, and they're gonna get a bonus. The most important thing is to help people quickly. I believe that if anything is important in this law, it is primarily the third amendment to do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u144	Comrade Tisovic, then colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the third amendment, because farmers need help immediately and because the old Slovenian proverb says who can quickly do so twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u146	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u147	Thank you very much. This amendment will show the good will, the political will, whether you are in favour of getting anything from farmers in this year's drought so that they can continue production in a normal year. A fellow member from a government party has confirmed the conspiracy against farmers by this anti-injury law. It is written in such a way that this year, and all the years to come, there will be nothing to gain. Fellow Members, fellow Members, you are here in the clearing. The emperor is naked, and now you decide whether you are willing to give anything, or are we really sitting here to adopt a law that would allow some compensation for damage in the event of natural disasters. Natural disasters are present on an extremely large scale this year. We will see whether we are making a law to avoid all solidarity and assistance to agriculture, or whether we are doing it to actually justify the title of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u148	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Of course, funds are primarily provided for in the budget reserve, both for the first year and possibly for the following year. During the third year, it is also possible for the special item to generate funds or lay down funds under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Of course, it is also possible, through a programme approved by the government, to pay for some of the funds that relate to the more damaged crops. Of course, it is also necessary to respect the ongoing procedure and the possibility of transferring funds as advances, on the basis of certain records and, of course, the carriers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u150	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State, what you said is not true at this time. If it is written in the law that payment can also be made, then you will be able to do so, otherwise you will find the reason that you cannot do so until the program is adopted and the whole procedure is completed. And the first is, the funds, as much as they are in the budget reserve, and the second is in the budget user. And if it is something for agriculture to also repair damage in agriculture, it will redistribute them to ease the most necessary drought. If you've agreed in the government that it only covers agriculture in that year, it'll be a wing. But I think it's most important that people be helped as quickly as possible. And do not run away from this responsibility that is absolutely necessary. It is essential to ensure that payment is made in kind. If this is not in the intervention law, then this law makes no sense that it exists. I'm telling you, it doesn't make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u152	I'm closing the debate. Watch out. We're moving on to decision-making. We will first decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. This is an amendment under order number 1 to Article 34. We're voting. 57 in attendance, 19 in and 34 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We vote on the amendment under order number 2, taking into account the observation that the text, paragraph 5, is deleted is no longer relevant and is no longer an integral part of the amendment. We're voting. 56 present, 20 for and 32 against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We're at amendment number three. We're voting. 54 in attendance, 25 in and 27 in. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 27.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. Order! 53 present, 18 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We have thus exhausted the decision on the amendments to Article 34. We are going to decide on two amendments to Article 35. If the first one is adopted, the second one is irrelevant. Please, Comrade Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u153	I have a brief editorial comment that, I would say, well-intentionedly, I did not call earlier, although they are in some way well-written, but let's say in article 23 there was a third amendment to replace "number" instead of "number". But since we refused, and everyone else was spelled right, it was clear that it was a lapsus. This is also a lapsus, which could be so humorous, evilly understood in any other way, to Article 2, which you say will not be relevant. "The resources of the state budget may be used to remedy the consequences of a single natural disaster, a natural disaster..." It's spelled "natural disasters" twice. It might look like a natural disaster has an additional natural disaster. That's why I suggest we cross it once.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u154	[[...]] [[Laugh.]] Please do not interpret this error, which is editorial in nature, not political. [[...]] That's what we took into account what you said, Comrade Partlich. Anyone else want a word? We decide first on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 35. We're voting. 53 present, 15 for and 34 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Now we're at the amendment under order number two, which is being corrected. The natural disaster syntagma has only been recorded once. We're making a decision. 56 present, 18 to and 33 to. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The two amendments are also tabled under Article 38. We'll decide in a row. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 38, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. 49 present, 18 to and 28 to. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 28.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. Further on the amendment under order number 2. 48 present, 13 to and 31 to. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. On the 11th and 12th pages of the review, you have an amendment to Article 39, which is irrelevant because it refers to an article that has not been completed. We have four amendments to Article 40, and we will decide in accordance with the order in which they are written. Comrade Drought Debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The fate of dealing with the wise proposal of the coalition member of Mr Webra to Article 19, the attitude towards this proposal, does not give me much hope of being heard, even less so as to be heard. However, I believe that, in this article, it is worth noting that, in Article 69, when we apply the final provisions, that this law also applies to the removal of the effects of drought in 2003, the distinction between insurance and non-insurance is that the time for agricultural production insurance has elapsed since or since the beginning of the vegetative period, at least, ethically disputed that we are now in the middle of or at the end of the vegetative period applying this discretion in terms of protected crops or unprotected crops. This puts those farmers who grow in areas with limited farming conditions on the worst areas at a significantly lower level than those who manage high-quality surfaces and who also generate so much income or have created it in the past years, in contrast to those who have been able to afford agricultural production insurance in 2003, without knowing that the principle of differentiation of insurance or non-insurance will apply in the treatment of damage for 2003. I think it's a very controversial matter. However, as I have already said, it is not worth talking about, since neither the smart and well-founded proposals of members of the parliamentary group do you listen or ignore from one of the largest groups of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u156	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. I'd like to explain amendment number four. The New Slovenia Group proposes to include two paragraphs in Article 40, namely paragraphs which we have already established in the Act for the Compensation of Damage arising in Agriculture in 2000 and 2001. Paragraph 10 would read as follows: "Agricultural operators who are natural persons certified to be harmed under this Act shall be exempted from contributions for health and pension, disability insurance and agricultural income taxes, in accordance with sectoral legislation. And then, of course, the second paragraph proposed by Mr Kebrich for 2001. The written contributions for health and pension, disability insurance, shall be covered by the appropriations of the budget. It seems appropriate for us to make such a provision in this law, which represents Lex Generalis for this area of systemic regulation in the field of natural disasters, and then, of course, to know how to act in these cases. So I ask you to consider this amendment and support it. Of course, it is very strange that, I do not know how some Members imagine that farmers who, as natural persons, carry out agricultural activities as the only and main activity, will be able to pay all these taxes, taxes and everything they bear if they do not receive due to the natural accident of agricultural income. That's why I don't understand that, although you may have been able to use the stick most of the time, but still, you've turned down the possibility of accommodating payments in order to settle some damage further. I am very surprised that this possibility has also been rejected by individual Members of the People's Party or that the present Members of the People's Party have not even voted. That's very sad. I don't know how you'll be able to stand up to people when we present this situation to them. That's simply not how it works, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u158	Thank you. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u159	This amendment under number 4 is probably written with the same purpose as the previous one that I supported. If we had voted the withdrawal, we would have achieved absolutely nothing, absolutely nothing. Otherwise, an actuarial payment process may fail in one way or another, or it would be best if one of the accounts were swift and quickly paid after the recovery. It's a similar thing here. Now I don't know if I should ask my colleagues who have proposed this amendment or the government, or whether they are right, or whether they don't know that all of this is normally possible, by other laws, in the field. All the deficits in one and the other cash registers mentioned here are covered by the state budget. These amendments, like the previous ones, are completely irrelevant. I don't know, it seems to me that this is the deception of those who are affected, who are actually affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u160	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u161	I don't know why he's asking the government. I remind you once again of paragraph 11. It should be said that, on the one hand, certain contributions under the sectoral legislation are to be written off to the budget if they are to be written off on the burden of these cash registers, pensions and health care, from which the money is then replaced in these cash registers. This is clearly stated and we have debated this in the law for 2001 for a long and broad period of time. Such a provision is proposed to be introduced into this law, which you claim to be systemic. So, if it's a system law, then we'll do it in a systematic way, but not that they're actually debated and inconsistent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u162	Can we make a decision? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u163	This law, or this article, as well as the law that we are likely to adopt or that you will adopt today, is, in some way, strongly directed at agriculture. Agriculture by all categories sets at least two classes lower than all other natural disaster beneficiaries. Any item, any percentage you look at, shall be purely at each position of the agricultural beneficiaries by 30 % on average less evaluated and justified to lower compensation than the other beneficiaries. Therefore, I also propose that in the first paragraph, the numbers 40 for 60 and 60 for 90 be replaced to also delete the fourth indent in the fourth paragraph, because this is being handled in a strange way again. Above all, I would also like to point out that the fifth paragraph explicitly raises the norms of surfaces. We now have these system payments, when this change was introduced this year as the starting point of 20 acres of a large plot, before it was 10. Only this shift from 10 to 20 acres caused only 5 billion to be paid off instead of 6 billion payments from these sources, more than 20% paid less. If we raise this matter to a further five times higher surface area, it is more than obvious in this known fragmentation of our rural area that agricultural beneficiaries will receive almost nothing. Almost nothing. The only ones who will benefit from this law will be purely magnificence. However, I suggest that this error is made when it is written in the seventh paragraph, as in the text below, and that I withdraw. This would suggest that this text should not be taken into account. I also agree with the proposal of the fourth amendment, which attempts to regulate a specific, special content in the system law, which is a natural disaster, in some systematic way to regulate a particular matter. I think that this proposal from New Slovenia is also quite appropriate. Today or yesterday, we saw how the system law could be overtaken by another system law. I think that if this matter were accepted, no exception would be made entirely, only in the law governing natural disasters would this be recorded and also an exclusive solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u164	To avoid later misunderstandings, Comrade Tankko, in the text of the amendment under order number 1 to 40, you have now proposed to delete "in paragraph 7 the number 40 is replaced by the number 10." Is that right? This is no longer an item complete. Okay. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We'll move on to a decision. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 40. By oral warning and withdrawal of the text in paragraph 7, the number 40 shall be replaced by the number 10. With this supplement, we are voting on the amendment under order number 1. Please. 53 present, 16 for and 32 for. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. The amendment is tabled by the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. Please. 55 present, 15 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. So, amendment. On page 13 of the review, we will now vote on the amendment under order number 3. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. 51 present, 14 to and 29 to. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The last, fourth amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. 56 present, 18 to and 31 to. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The New Slovenia Group also rules the amendment to Article 41. We're making a decision. We vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 41. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present, 15 for and 35 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. On page 14 of the review we have two amendments to Article 42 of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We decide - yes, Comrade Sušnik wants to discuss it first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I would like to say here, when we are talking about the operators of the measures to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture, that there are several tasks assigned to municipalities here in the third paragraph, and there is nowhere in this law to carry out these tasks. It is in my mind that last year, after the presidential elections, we received 40 decisions from the Commission requiring the recovery of the assets to be served in accordance with the administrative procedure - this is a drought in 2001. All of these 40 decisions were received in closed plain mail, but the service following the administrative procedure was a 40-fold expense for the municipality of the recommended letter with a return. All these costs for telling people that they are not receiving anything for the drought of 2001 or that they have to pay back the economic resources, go into the burden of the congregations and cannot be settled. In view of the fact that it is not expected to be an activative resource for 2003, it seems to me that it is a shame, and on the question of all the procedures that we are taking, which we are already taking in accordance with the Ministry of Defence's instructions for some administration and processing of some data - the final phase is so poor and small. However, the purpose of this contribution here was to point out that, as the beneficiary of Article 42, there are no funds available for the financing of all procedures which are not available by municipalities or local communities for all these damage procedures, both in matters and in agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u166	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u167	Look, I think this country is acting kind of awkward to the congregations. It imposes a number of direct obligations on them, as well as a number of indirect obligations under the law, and they do not receive a full compensation for these matters. In this area, which is covered by the State, including in the local part, a number of its exposures, as well as a whole of its employees in the administrative units for agriculture and the economy, it has a network of advisory services, and eventually, with these operational tasks, it burdens the municipality, including mail distribution, editorial and similar matters. And I think that a minimum issue should be taken up in this area in such a way that the costs of the municipalities involved would be borne by these common costs after natural disasters. This is a minimum if we assign certain burdens to an institution that is supposed to be independent of some law. I do not think that this proposal we have proposed is too much. I would also like to say that these matters in the congregations are extremely busy. Here he works, I do not know, one department for about two months and does not deal with completely any other matter, such as recording, data collection, recalculation, coordination and similar matters. I think that the congregations are entitled to what we are proposing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u168	Good. I'm closing the debate. Attention. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. This is an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 42. We're voting! Let's be careful, please! We're in the middle of a vote. 51 in attendance, 18 in and 29 in. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. I'd like to have your attention in the hall. [[...]] Under order number two. We're voting. I'm asking for peace, because then I never know if anything is meant for me or just for my colleagues. 54 present, 22 for, 29 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 29.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We have the amendment of New Slovenia on pages 14 and 15 of the review to 43. Comrade Rokavec, a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. I would really like to ask the representative for agriculture why it takes 90 days for a government programme to be adopted, which is set to inform the Ministry of the collection of applications. 90 days. In fact, as stated here, the 43rd article states: "The Ministry responsible for agriculture, forestry after the adoption of the programme to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture in the government shall inform the municipalities within a period not longer than 90 days in which they must collect the applications of beneficiaries and send them to the Ministry for treatment." Is this meant to be the whole process, since there will already be applications at the Ministry, or is it just an application that the Ministry has to address to the congregation? In fact, it's not entirely understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u170	Would you like to answer, Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. So, there's a time limit that's not longer than 90 days, so there's every possibility that this deadline is obviously shorter, so it's not supposed to be 90 days. Well, it could be a shorter deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u172	I can see three hands. First, Comrade Sok, Dr. Bayuk and colleague Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u173	Look, Mr Secretary of State, if you write down in your marriage that this is 90 days, then we are confident that your employees will also do it within a period not of course 30 days, but 90 days. This is how it is done, and this is what we have already experienced when you proposed a law on agricultural land, in the part about agricultural land transport. So, you put him in Parliament when it was too late, a month late. So you've been sticking to the extreme deadline set by the Constitutional Court. For this reason, we suggest you cut this deadline short. Not for 90 days, but 30 days, because 90 days after the adoption of the program you don't need at the Ministry to wait for you to inform the congregations that applications are being collected. It's absolutely too long a deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u174	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can explain to us whether the government and your ministry have any problems with 30 days, because on the question of colleague Rokavac, why you need more, you said that maybe there could be a shorter deadline. That means 90 days. You answered the question, and I repeat it to you. Can you explain why you need more than 30 days and if this could be acceptable to you? Haven't we heard any arguments yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u176	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u177	Yeah, look here we're diverged in 60 days from the bill that's in the law and the amendment. So we can save two months here, I'm not saying we can save, but you should probably hear the answer, because the Secretary of State said: you can save less than 90 days. Is it possible to do this in 30, 45 days? This actually buys us a lot in time, then even at the final stage, when the beneficiaries can get the first pay for the damage. But here I think it made sense before making a decision you get the actual answer you need.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u178	Government representatives. Anybody want an answer? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u179	Look, here's the exact number of days you can't actually tell. We just proposed 90 days. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u180	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u181	also based on experience due to logistical complications in 2001. [[...]] This deadline could also be shorter, of course, 60 days or so, but I am of course sure that the department of the department will by no means want to hold this deadline indefinitely, and I find it difficult to understand such mistrust as to look for the last 90 days. But I'm afraid the adoption of an amendment that says 30 days might be, I don't know, I don't know the nature of the thing, but maybe it's too much. Therefore, I believe that the framework within 90 days, with the confidence of the Ministry responsible for agriculture in this case, is quite sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u182	Any of the government's representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Dr. Bayuk, colleague of Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I appreciate that you spoke mainly on behalf of your ministry and government as a whole. However, I would like to call again on the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture to explain to us what reasons you have for not proposing 30 days. It's just a system law. I want to know if that's true. This is going to be a system law, how we're going to put things off, whether it's a system law to solve problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u184	First, my friend Rokavec. All right, let's go,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u185	I would only suggest briefly that this amendment be supported. Thus and so, we have a third hearing and we could in fact decide, by the third reading, a suitable, agreed deadline, which would in fact be a certain time frame that would be appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u186	First of all, the minister has an advantage over you if he wants a word. Minister, please. Then, my friend Anderlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u187	That's all I'd say. This deadline; you think it's a deadline - or, from this I understand that you think it goes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u188	Peace, peace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u189	For the time period it takes civil servants to send a role to themselves. [[...]] It's not about that kind of hand. This is a deadline for the application of beneficiaries, with a time limit that, say, 15 days or 30 days, will cause some farmers who have been injured to find themselves more slowly by submitting applications, maybe this deadline will be delayed and no compensation will come at all. So, look, that's good-intentioned. This has been done to the benefit of the victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u190	Comrade Anderlich, then colleague Weber. Let us be clear, for now there have been two different explanations about this. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u191	Of course, I see a trap somewhere else, if we're talking about mistrust. First, at the beginning of the sentence, where there is no time limit, the Ministry must make a programme. And this is where it all starts, actually. I would understand that you say that the Ministry must do a program within 30 days, and from then on these other hands are counted. I understand this second deadline, 90 days, up to 90 days, of course twice. On one occasion, I see that farmers and congregations can do this in order to have enough time to do so, since sometimes we also face the opposite logic so that they cannot prepare. But if, of course, they did, and even if the country were to say 90 - day deadlines, I understood, it means that if the congregations were prepared for the 15th day or the 10th day to deliver it. Not the other way around. If we understand it differently, I understand it that way. But I think it's a key problem to define the beginning, so since when is it counted, because there can also be, I don't know, dating and so on. And I'd look at it in the first place.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u192	Comrade Webber, let's be clear so we know what we're voting on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u193	I'd just like to confirm. I understand it as well as the Minister's. In fact, the Ministry shall inform the municipalities of the deadline within which the beneficiaries of this application shall collect. And it can't be longer than 90 days, it can really be shorter, but within 90 days it's what beneficiaries actually need to collect these applications. This is not about when the Ministry informs the congregation, but when these applications are withdrawn and this article is in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u194	Is that explained now? Can we make a decision? It's not. Anybody else want some? My friend Sok. Please, Comrade Sok, you have one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u195	Just one moment. So this amendment to this article speaks of a deadline after the government has already adopted the programme. In accordance with Article 12 of this Law, the Government has 3 months to prepare a programme. That's how I read the second paragraph of Article 12. And after the previous commission has confirmed this programme, then, if this period is 90 days, the Ministry would have time to inform the municipalities of this programme within 90 days. So it's in the context of this law to read these hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u196	Good. Oh. Look, this is obviously a misunderstanding. [[..]] I'm not an acquaintance, but I also understand that it's a misunderstanding, that it's not a decision. Now, is there anything else that needs to be explained so that we can decide whether we can vote? Can we make a decision? Then we'll decide now. Look, we have before us an amendment, which is on pages 14 and 15 of Article 43. It is submitted by the New Slovenia Group. We will now vote on this amendment. We're voting. 56 present, 18 to and 33 to. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We're at Article 57. The Social Democratic Party's emissary group is proposing an amendment. My friend Tanko. Peace in the hall! We are close to the end of this session and a few more patience will suffice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u197	This 57th article, which we somehow corrected last night, does not reflect fully or is not a suitable solution. In the past, it has been stipulated that the application for a building permit is being submitted by the operators themselves to take measures to remedy the consequences. It is now stipulated that a legal or natural person can do so. In this case, I don't think things are perfectly clear. For in this way it can also be regulated that the executioner is the one who determines the rate of investment in building permits and thus determines the time of use. I think it is much more precise, as we have proposed yesterday and even today, that the request to issue the building permits referred to in the preceding article is made by a legal or natural person who is entitled under the provisions of this law to obtain funds to remedy the consequences of an accident. I think that with this amendment, with this correction, it is perfectly clear who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the one who is the Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u198	Let's decide? All right, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to Article 57. We're voting! 58 present, 20 for and 35 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 35.]] He didn't get the support he needed. Well, now we are on the last amendment or article, this is Article 69 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Please, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. See, Article 69 in the final provision deals with the damage to agriculture caused prior to the entry into force of this Act. I now ask the Minister how the damage to the matter is done before this law is enforced. I would like to remind you that we have made very broad, extensive programmes to remedy the effects of the damage or rehabilitation of beaches in which, according to the municipalities previously verified by the Commission for Fundamental Accidents at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which were or were such a programme for the rehabilitation of beaches as some form of natural disasters, we have demanded significant funds for projects, for geological research, for everything else that needs to be accomplished, so that you can obtain funds for the removal or for the rehabilitation of such a beach, which I stress - it has been previously verified by the State Commission. However, this rehabilitation of the beaches has completely stalled and even this year some criteria have been established that eliminate all reptiles whose investment value is less than 100 million. In short, virtually nothing is happening with all this recovery from the 1998 storms. I would like to point out that the programmes have been verified by the Commission, that it would be expected that the remediation of the damage that occurred prior to the implementation of this system law on these matters - here I think of the reptiles - will also be incorporated into this final provision. Now I'm asking why this isn't happening or what's going to happen to you in the future. In doing so, I would like once again to point out that we have devoted a great deal of money to the preparatory work to remedy these damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u200	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u201	So if we want to help with this drought this year, then in the New Slovenia Group of Members we think we should shorten our hands. This third amendment proposes not to apply the deadlines set out in Articles 12 and 43. If these deadlines are in force, then according to Article 12, the government will first have at its disposal three months to submit the programme, then the Ministry of Agriculture will have 90 days to notify the municipalities, to collect applications, which is six months. And when those hands are gone, of course, it'll be the end of the year. We therefore propose that we adopt an amendment to this final provision in order to bring these deadlines into force immediately after its publication in the Official Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u202	I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment to Article 69. Remember, then we'll move on to the third reading of the bill. We are now deciding on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 69. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 22 in and 34 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We're in third reading. Article 8 has been supplemented by an amendment which has received support; it can be subject to amendments. I ask the Government and the competent legislative and legal service to examine the text in terms of coherence. Minister? Just a minute! First, I ask qualified candidates whether they wish to table an amendment to Article 8? If not, we are moving on to a question of coherence. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The amendment of the Social Democratic Party to Article 8 was adopted, as has just been said. It deleted some of the powers of the Commission to remedy the consequences of damage in agriculture and the Commission to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. These committees, however, are referred to again in Articles 33 and 41. Article 33 and Article 41 should therefore be deleted both in the first paragraph of Article "to confirm" because that confirmation in Article 8 was deleted by the amendment of the Socialist Democratic Party's Group, but the Socialist Party's Group did not at the same time table an amendment to Article 33 and Article 41, because if it wanted to be consistent, it should. That's one. Second. Yesterday, the Infrastructure Committee recast Article 19 with a new second paragraph, which is what Member Weber referred to earlier, and therefore it is necessary, since this also applies to private forests - in short, the possibility of aid also in private forests - to be deleted in Article 14, in order for this to be harmonised. In short, the word "confirmed" has to be crossed twice and the words "owned by the state" should be deleted once. These three harmonisation amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u204	I just received them from the Secretary of State. The law enforcement department will look into it if everything's okay. Are you going to demand that you get them on the bench? No, no, no. Comrade Sok wants a word with his colleague Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u205	I would like to remind the Minister, who said how the Social Democratic Party should properly submit the amendments, that he must also pay attention to the third paragraph of Article 12. For you also have written there to priorly confirm the Commission's tracks, it is said, that with the harmonisation amendment you must also correct this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u206	Please, Minister, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u207	No, it's a misunderstanding. The programme is one thing, but compensation to the individual beneficiary is another. What you deleted by amendment to Article 8 was the confirmation of the specific amount of damage to the individual beneficiary and not the confirmation of the programme. In this regard, there is no need for a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u208	Dr. Bayuk, did you still want it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. In fact, I have a question because I have no answer and I would like to consult publicly. When we discussed Article 4, the Secretary of State explained to us that the definition of about to be roughly the same as that of a sub-law. My colleague Sok warned me that there was no record of this under-law. Speaking of which, we may maintain minimum compliance with our promises before we leave: is it possible for the government to propose a concrete issue to make this happen? What we all heard was the promise of the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u210	But it's not the subject of coordinating amendments to understand each other. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u211	Look, Mr. Bajuk. The New Slovenia Group also proposed amendments to Article 40, paragraph 9. So I'm sure you've studied the contents of Article 40 well. Article 40 mentions or foretells this sub-law, and I can say that you were concerned about when it would be adopted, of course, before deciding to remove the effects of the drought this year; which means that it will be done, I am sure - almost certainly in August and perhaps in September - on the proposal of the competent ministry. In short, this sub-legislative act is provided for in Article 40.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u212	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. By looking at Article 40 and this explanation, what would be roughly the same is not the same. As far as I understand, you may be talking about Article 9, paragraph 1, which states that the Government has set a methodology for determining geographically rounded areas, for each natural disaster individually. Is that what you think it is? Because if that's what it is, then I don't understand. Then you can explain it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u214	Dr. Bajuk, look. There is no more general debate. Amendments other than those of co-ordination are no longer mentioned. About individual Wait, wait Some rules have to be and we all have to stick to them. [[...]] [[...]] If the minister wants to say anything else, I suggest you wait a second, because colleague Juban wants a word. Just colleague Juban, just about the coordinating amendments. Please. Please, Comrade Juban, on the coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u215	We have in Article 67 criminal provisions referring to Article 31 - intentional consumption. However, in Article 8, we voted in a set of amendments to our colleagues or took away the powers of the Commission to take note of this. Since we said, in addition to the logical matter, where the hierarchy is the Commission, we added to it, perhaps we were not even aware - colleagues often stress the control over the use of funds - we also took away the identification of the unjustified allocation and the identification of non-use.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u216	What's your suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u217	The jurisdiction of the commission. And once this harmonisation amendment is in place, this matter will probably also need to be returned to this Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u218	Wait. Look, we have an amendment to Article 14, to Article 33 and to Article 41. There will be no misunderstandings? [[...]] If anyone wants to, I've already ordered that a review of the harmonisation amendments be reproduced, and I'll put them on the bench. If you feel that this is not necessary, wait or decide. One of them demands that we suspend the session until the harmonisation amendments are split. I don't see such a request. So we'll make a decision. We will first decide on the coordination amendment to Article 14. In the second paragraph of paragraph 4, the text is deleted; I quote, "at State ownership" at the end of the quote. Explanation. "According to the adoption of the amendment of the Infrastructure Committee to paragraph 2 of paragraph 19. Articles." We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 14. 58 present, 43 for and 1 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the harmonisation amendment for Article 14 has been adopted. With Article 33, the Government proposes: "In paragraph 3 the text is deleted" - I quote - "in confirmation". End of quote. Explanation: "The amendment is necessary for the adoption of an amendment which deletes the fourth and seventh indents in paragraph 1 and 2 of paragraph 8. Articles." Excuse me! It says 4th and 7th. And the eighth, because we have completed such a text. Thank you very much for that warning. I'm just warning you. That's where the literal supplement came in, remember, fourth, seventh and eighth. It is fine that there will then be no misunderstanding with consistency. Please, representatives of the government, look. Remember, that's when we warned our colleague Tank that there must be a fourth, a seventh and an eighth indent. It's Article 33. Is she okay? Good. The amendment is therefore necessary for the adoption of an amendment which deletes the fourth, seventh and eighth indents of Article 8(1) and (2). We're voting. Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko, for this warning, otherwise we'd have trouble. Good. 57 present, 40 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. And the last harmonisation amendment to Article 41. In the first paragraph, the words "to be confirmed" shall be deleted. The amendment is necessary for the adoption of an amendment which deletes the fourth, seventh and eighth indents of Article 8(1) and (2). We're voting. 58 present, 41 for, one versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] We can now vote on the law, given that the third harmonisation amendment has also been adopted. We're voting on the law. I'm sorry, I'm hanging up. Please, Comrade Sok, Comrade Tanko. Voice explanations - 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to explain my voice. This law is written in such a way that, of course, it does not solve what causes it to be adopted by emergency procedure. On the basis of this law, the affected farmers, who have been severely affected by this year's drought, I hope they will not receive anything. Otherwise, I will not vote against the law, but I cannot vote against such a written law with so many incontrovertibles and with so many indiscretions, so I will abstain from voting on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u220	My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u221	Thank you. The law we now adopt in our third reading determines primarily why and how it is not possible to help. And with the law, we looked for more reasons not to intervene and not to help people than to find reasons to find a source and a way to help those who are affected. The law sets an extremely high threshold for intervention in the area as well as for individual beneficiaries, as we have previously seen in agricultural lands virtually eliminated the entire small estate and satisfactorily saves only the nobles. The law is somehow aimed at continuing the drying up of agriculture, is unsocial, undemocratic and inhuman. The deadlines are inadequately long, the percentage of aid for individual beneficiaries is very different and, above all, low. The law is also farce in that it does not provide for any specific aid or nominal aid, does not provide for any relief and, above all, it is a farce because in the event of an accident it takes systemic resources to those who are entitled to it. The law is also a farce because it will enter into force the next day after the publication, and the first aid may be for Christmas as a kind of Christmas. And this is only possible in cases where the opposition's proposals are voted against. And for this reason, I will not support the law and will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u222	A fellow Rokavec, a colleague of Peterle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. I will abstain from voting in favour of this law because for the first time, I believe that the system law is not adopted by procedure, that the fifth day when the law comes into Parliament, the system law must already be adopted. This is an act for a kindergarten. This is not an act for Parliament. The problem of natural disasters this year should be addressed by a specific intervention law that could be more effective and also more resourceful. This law, however, will allow for further regulation of state bureaucracy, allow for significantly more fog to the beneficiaries, and in the end, we will probably still face the outrage of beneficiaries who will not get what the state can do. I will therefore abstain from voting on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u224	Comrade Partich, I apologize. I should have given you my word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u225	I'm asking you for one portion, otherwise known tolerances, Mr President, so that you don't say that I'm using this institute too quickly. I'll also tell you how I'm going to vote. I'm still in a dilemma, but I'll make up my mind by the end of my words. I'm worried that if we adopt the law, and I hear that the state council will veto this week, will we have to gather again to see that the law is in force after 8 days?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u226	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u227	If that happens, I will also suggest in autumn that we prepare a bill to remedy the consequences of Members when Minister Kopač introduces laws at the last summer session. Well, I hope this doesn't happen, but I'm gonna hold myself back so I don't have to come back from vacation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u228	Let's go in one order. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u229	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with co-workers. I've been trying for a long time to make decisions here because I had other obligations before, I was happy with these options, but I'm not happy with the results. I would be happy to support a law that after so many years, I would say, a non-systemic approach, could really mean this true basis for quick action when people are really in trouble. However, I see that the same method continues: about the key issues in the last minute, at the last meeting, on the last day, so I also see this path, not the best and I see three reasons not to support the law. First of all, it's not consistent with what the Latins used to say: bis dat qui cito dat - twice yes, who gives quickly. No one's gonna give it here twice because it's gonna be very late. And here too, I see, indeed, some common sense items could not convince the majority. Another time. The matter for me is not in accordance with Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that Slovenia is also a social state. Sometimes I remember very much speaking against the ambassadors, now the most powerful farmers, so to speak, only give them the opportunity to exercise certain interests when they are injured. Thirdly, I believe that this law is an important contribution against the anti-biocratic programme. Well, I can't support such a marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u230	Comrade Jerovšek, behind him colleague Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much. In fact, I must congratulate the motioners of the law of the Ministry because they have made such a sophisticated product that will virtually prevent those who need help from getting help. I believe it took really eight years for such a product to be made very sophisticatedly. It has been said several times that it is unheard of that such a thing should come on the agenda during the time just before parliamentary holidays. Today, Parliamentary holidays have taken place in our Rules of Procedure, and this clearly points to the intention of the proposer to actually cause confusion in several spheres. I think this law is one of the worst accidents that will affect Slovenian villages this year. For this reason, of course, I will not support the law; I will abstain to avoid the obvious that I voted against any law, but I cannot support this accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u232	Comrade Kacin, then a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll support the marriage. It's always a dilemma: to support, not support or abstain, because someone thinks we're still in kindergarten. I repeat, I will uphold the law myself. But the reasons for this are as follows. For several days, I have listened to the evidence that this country has not prepared a system law for many years. The law was prepared, we discussed it, the working bodies made amendments, we amended it, we coordinated it, and now we decide whether or not to do anything. If I don't vote for it, then all my sitting here is useless and also all the others we've been sitting here wishing something was done. The law is certainly better than nothing, so every step forward is worth supporting, so I will vote in favour of this law, in the hope and also in the belief that they are aware of who the law is intended for. It is not intended to punish members of the National Assembly in order to meet again, but to help those who need help. So I finish: I will vote in favour of the law because comparisons with kindergarten insult me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u234	A colleague of Dr. Bayuk's, a colleague of Pec's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Systemic law - what is that supposed to be? Thus, the system law must solve and enforce, introduce some permanent mechanisms to solve certain problems. And this is a system law by name only. What's he systematizing? It is systematizing the will of the executive authorities, which we have received in this particular area in recent years. What we wanted to save, we're going to legalize now. We will legislate in such a way that the executive branch can or will not, depending on, see if this holds, if it is true in that article, article 40, exactly what Mr Minister has promised us that they will tell us when it will be the same, when it will be around. And maybe we'll find out, maybe we won't. I will vote against this law because I cannot agree that this National Assembly is systematically removing itself from its duty and leaving the executive power to do the key things when the time comes for the implementation of these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a system law, this is a stalemate, nothing solves, we're going to have bigger problems than we've had before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u236	Comrade Peca, colleague of Ašić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u237	Respectable present. In the Slovenian National Party, we have deliberately abstained from the debate on the amendments, as we have already said in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary group that we will not support the bill because we do not agree with the starting points on which the law is made. We are convinced that it is not prudent and that it is worse than nothing if the National Assembly agrees that the consequences can only be corrected. According to our assessment, they should be based on the knowledge that droughts are, we know from past years or were, they are, and they will be. And it would make more sense for the country's policy in this area to approach the solution or implementation of the idea of the Slovenian National Party, which we gave to you at the outset, so how can we prevent this from happening? And the financial resources borne by the law behind us could be allocated to one of the forms of irrigation systems that we have talked about, and would thus in the long term help or come to that stage so that we do not meet in the years to come, on the one hand, with such systemic laws or intervention laws as they have been in the past. According to our assessment, the adoption of this law will be less than nothing if a Member told me before me that it is better than nothing because we are opening a green light for contentions between individuals and the country in the future. Because the law did not provide financial resources in the form or support of an amendment in the 10th member, and because you deliberately allow a debate on natural disasters or disasters. The National Assembly would act much wiser if it approached the investment system, promoting investment in irrigation systems. In particular, if we look at the water regime of the Republic of Slovenia, this would prevent any consequences. But of course, the decision in democracy is in the hands of the majority; most of you in this national assembly are government Members. The marriage is bad, I'm afraid we'll change it fast, but that's not the worst. The worst part is that people will be unhappy with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u238	Comrade Auschwitz, with you Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the law because people would be very unhappy if, after a few days of discussion in the Infrastructure Committee and in the Chamber of the National Assembly, they did not vote and adopt this law, because, in this case, no one in the field of dealing with the consequences after the drought and after the pears burn would do anything in a few months until they have adopted another option, which is the question of how different the law before us could be. Whether it's clumsy or not, it'll show time. It's hard to just, over the finger, evaluate the product - and also this law - not until it's checked in practice. But I wanted to say in particular what I did on the board last night. The principle of quick Yes is a good principle, and it is good to hear arguments about it. However, we must also adopt a law that will not be unjust to those who did not have an accident. A law that quickly returns money or provides money for the consequences of floods, droughts, and so forth could be very unfair for those who did not have an accident. For those who have already put away the wheat, for example, will receive this wheat paid according to the best variants in three months or by the end of the year. Those who had a hailstone in the vineyard will receive a wine yield if the grapes themselves are converted into wine or put in a wine cellar, once next year, depending on the conditions provided by the wine producers to the manufacturer and so on. So, all those who have not and will not suffer any harm would benefit from the logic of this law, if the principle, which quickly does, were adopted, twice that, income much later than those who will not generate income and the state would settle it to them quickly. That's why I think such a law with these principles is good for admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u240	Comrade Juban, then Master Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u241	I may have been among those who experienced some time of distress at the time of marriage, but at this point I am among those who will support the marriage. It is necessary that the system law is due to this, because for my concepts of solutions, as someone offers them: irrigation, defense against the tide, is out of the question. Because where it's been for years, we don't have any water. The defense against the flow does not work anywhere in the world, and a similar offer is pointless to offer because they are not there. One small error, which may have been duly introduced into the law, is still unclear to me - direct payments that go into market value - but against all other solutions this is too little reason not to support the law. At the same time, we can find that, despite the fact that the system's final provisions state that this is also the law for this year and that it has all the elements such as the intervention law, and all the problems can be solved to the extent that there are financial capabilities. Much depends on how honest and consistent we will all be in the process of solving damage together. To stop describing the damage where they have never seen it in the last ten years, not this year. And, the expediency of the commissions, the municipalities, the state commission, which will finally have to say, "It's possible here, but it's not possible there." And then, on the basis of the recovery plan, things should be dealt with as soon as possible without regard to the provision on withdrawals, which, of course, would also not contribute to the expediency of implementing the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u242	Thank you. A colleague of mags. Little fella, followed by Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u243	I will vote against it under the term "systemic law" because it is not a system law. This, as Dr. Bajuk’s colleague said, has become chaotic and will cause a number of headaches: from those who will receive help or will not receive it, to those who will share it or identify it in the field, or those who will receive it. You've completely ignored the little farmers, the little owners. The dignitaries, they say - so, this current, this layer is the center of this, the rest are ignored. Not for the first time, it's already happened in concessions. This time, those who were enthusiastic or enthusiastic about the young man gave advice to small farmers. Systemic law does not tackle the main one, eliminating these sources of accidents, how to avoid this in Slovenia. Because if drought occurs five times in a year, there is no coincidence, but it changes into a system, and this should be done in Slovenia. For these reasons, it is not possible to adopt this law, and especially because Nova Slovenija has introduced the right intervention law for real aid to remedy the damage that took place this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u244	Comrade Kelemin, you're with my colleague Zupanov.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Respectable. Personally, I will not support this law, nor will I oppose it, but my assessment is that this assessment of the law is very rich in its scope and speech, but I do think that it is extremely noble and, above all, will not give farmers what they expect. They will benefit from a larger commission that will make a good profit in the censuses, but farmers are asking when they will receive a tolar payment out of this, but the volume of funds is, in any case, extremely modest. I even assess that the proposal of this law, which we have adopted so quickly, may be some kind of attack by the entire coalition on the People's Party or its constituents - otherwise the Members of the People's Party are involved in this. For if anyone is displeased with this, surely those members or electors of the People’s Party will be farmers who will not receive anything. This is probably already a construct for the demolition of the People's Party in elections for the European Parliament and then for parliamentary elections next year. In short, my assessment is that marriage is bad and I'm not going to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u246	A colleague of Zupanov's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I'm on my own in a big dilemma, or should I support the marriage? I would like to support it in order to enable people in distress to come to terms with their obligations arising from it. However, within four hours it proved that we are not satisfied with the law and that such a marriage is simply not worth accepting. Secondly, in our vicinity, they pass very fast intervention laws, and we're working on a system law that doesn't actually solve things the way we want to. And then I thought of one more thing. In the countryside, usually during the processions, they also ask to turn away from the drought, from the tide, from the bad weather. In addition to all of this, we could say, "Save us, O Lord, even the bad laws." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u248	We don't make decisions about godly desires. My friend Mamić now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has told us we don't trust the government. I'm the only one who really doesn't trust the government, at least this ministry. In fact, when we passed the building law, it was said that everything was ready, and perhaps with small adjustments this good law would be. There were 200 amendments! Now I can truly say that a good law has been passed - unlike what we have today. It's like going for a razor blade, and that barber gives me a four-year-old kid, says, "Learn your uncle to have your job." There's an uncle you'll cut nicely. And a marriage like this, I'm sorry, I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u250	I suggest we vote because metaphors are becoming more complex. I suggest we decide on the law. We're voting on the law. 60 in attendance, 38 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I know that in the wine-growing country, juice is not the best magnet for any social event, but if someone had a few minutes before going to the office before going on parliamentary holidays, we will stop here with the employees for a minute. I'll give up my speech before the holiday starts. Let me just say that when we look at this time between the last parliamentary holidays and those that are starting now, we will probably remember at least one very important decision, this is our decision to enter the European Union and NATO. Parliament has contributed significantly to this and I think we can be satisfied with this. He'll be sitting down at 3:15. Comrade Petan wishes to inform the National Assembly of the meeting of his committee. Please, Chairman of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I invite the members of the Defence Committee that after what happens out here, we get in room 212 and make an emergency session; I don't think it's gonna be long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-16-SDZ3-Izredna-32.ana.u252	Good. Members and Members of Parliament and the staff I thank for their work, I invite to the lobby.
