ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u1	I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to step out of the lobby into the big debate room. The National Assembly will continue its 26th session today. I would like to inform you that at the last meeting of the College we discussed working today until 6 p.m. and if we did not finish work by 6 p.m., then we would continue working tomorrow, and so was the agreement. I'm asking you to consider this. I would like to inform you who are detained today and cannot attend. These are colleagues of Ašič from 1 p.m. onwards, colleague Beumann from 17.30 p.m., colleague Bozič, Dr. Brejc, colleague Čebulj, Horvat, after 3 p.m. will not be with us colleague Jerič, there will be a colleague Kangler, Marsich, Peterle, Possonec and colleague Vukko between 11.00 and 13.00 p.m. First, we're going to move on to 15 today. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I'm asking the representative, does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The rapporteur of the committee shall be the chairman of the committee, Comrade Kacin, who also does not wish to speak. My colleague Peca wanted to present the views of the Group of Members and I give him my word, but everyone else please not to be disturbed. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we have thoroughly reviewed the short law on the ratification of the financial treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. First, we would like to raise a question about the financial consequences of the contract itself, then also the enforcement of the law. On the second occasion, partial disagreement or a question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the financing contract speaks in its content from Article 1 on payment, credit, loans, interest, and we would like to ask whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in preparing or negotiating and acceding to this contract, has also tried to negotiate funds in the form of grants. Therefore, given that the European Union directives or the European Union's area for environmental protection are, according to our assessment, so important for the whole of the European Union as well as for Slovenia and, in particular, for the closure of the mine at the Žirov Summit, that it would make sense and, according to our assessment, the treaty negotiators would be able to obtain these funds in such a form that they would not have to be reimbursed - this is EUR 20 million. So, the first flaw or the question of financial implications, which will be the question for the state budget in the coming years, and the second question to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would like to receive an answer, whether they have agreed to the lender's relationship and thus the principal and interest payer, and whether they have tried to obtain these funds through any of the European Union's structural funds in the form of grants, which would in any way make sense. Our decision is the most important answer to the second part, how much the government has done and if it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party's Group also asked for a presentation of its views, but I do not see a colleague of Podobnik in the Chamber right now. So I ask the representative of the government, does he want to explain to the questions raised by his colleague Peca? Please. If you get up, please, ma'am. Can you get up, ma'am? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u4	Maja Košak, Ministry of Finance. I would reply that the financial consequences, that the government has assessed that it is reasonable to take credit for the repayment of this loan, in particular by shortening the closing date of this mine and thus reducing the environmental consequences and that the matter is being rectified as soon as possible. As you may have seen in the material, the government has worked very hard to obtain at least EUR 5 million in grants, but we have just received an answer in recent days that the European Commission considers that this uranium mine Žirovski Summit is not so severe - it does not endanger the environment so much that Europe has the means to do so. That there are much worse threats in other parts, in other accessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u5	Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u6	Well, according to our information, your claims are not true and the Slovenian negotiating group or people who entered into a contract, at least a draft contract that is not typified, have not even tried to obtain Slovenia, therefore, not credit, but grants. On the other hand, I would like to ask you at this point, because, according to our assessment, the cohesion or cohesion funds that are currently in place for the Republic of Slovenia - from the signing of the Treaty in Athens onward: why have you not tried to include the project of the rehabilitation or closure of the Žirov Summit, which alone has the value of EUR 20 million, which is not negligiblely small, in cohesion projects that are to be notified to the European Union this year, or Brussels. Because, according to our assessment, we could also use cohesion to cover these funds. The only difference is that the position of the Slovenian National Party in the first part is the same as that of the government, so of course it is necessary to close or join the Žirovsko Summit. There's no doubt about it. The difference is only the way. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore proposes to rent a loan with the corresponding interest, and in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that it would be possible for Europe to obtain a grant in such or other form for the protection of the environment, which would not burden the final stage of citizens and citizens through budgetary revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u7	Good. There is no debate because no amendments have been tabled. We are in the third reading and decision-making of the bill. If he wants, someone can explain the voice before making the decision. If that's not the case, we'll get to the vote. We will vote on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the Financial Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. Mr Peče wishes to explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u8	Well, given that we have neither received nor received a satisfactory response from government representatives, I also find it very irresponsible that the State Assembly does not know before deciding whether the option was even open to obtaining EUR 20 million or not. And I just think it would be responsible for the National Assembly to get this information from the government. For if it turns out that it is an option to obtain grants, then I think it is absolutely irrelevant to adopt that law, which, of course, will have financial implications. As long as this answer to the vote, despite the fact that you have concluded the debate, we will not get it, I will not be able to support or oppose the proposal of the law personally, like Saša Peca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice before making a decision? Let me just say that this bill was also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy and that all the explanations, including what you are requesting today, could have been obtained there. But I don't know how the government responded. The rapporteur, the chairman of the committee today was not to give a report. I believe that we can decide on the proposal for a law on the ratification of the financial treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank. We're voting! May I have your attention, please? 54 attended. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted a proposal for a law on ratification. We're moving on to 16. Period of the agenda - This is on a defensive proposal for a law supplementing the law on the ratification of agreements on cooperation to prevent and combat cross-border crime. This bill was also tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I'm asking the representative, does he want the opening statement? I ask, does any of the members or members of this committee wish to submit a report to the committee? [[Nobody.]] In order to present the views of the members of the groups, the Slovenian National Party's Group is interested and I give the floor to my colleague Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I have a lot of questions in this law, which I hope representatives or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or Home Affairs will answer. In fact, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the ratification of cooperation agreements to prevent and combat cross-border crime states in Article 1: In the law on the ratification of the cooperation agreement to prevent and combat cross-border crime, drawn up in Bucharest on 26 May 1999, a new paragraph shall be added after the second paragraph of Article 3, which reads as follows: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall be empowered to withdraw the reservations referred to in paragraph 1 and 2 of this Article." If we look at the law on the ratification of a cooperation agreement to prevent and combat cross-border crime, we will notice that this law has only two articles. The first article says: "A cooperation agreement to prevent and combat cross-border crime is being ratified in Bucharest on 26 May 1999. Article 2: "The agreement in the original English language and in the translation in the Slovenian language is read..." This is where I miss this third article. Unless Article 3 is a comprehensive cooperation agreement and to prevent and combat cross-border crime. For if this is Article 3, or if this is Article 2, which this matter is added to, it is somehow not clear to me. However, it is not clear to me that I would like to know why the state of Slovenia has waived reservations. Reservations in each international legal contract shall allow a State Party to derogate from the requirements of the Agreement in certain cases where it may also violate its internal law. We authorise the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw the reservations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, because it is very difficult to say again because it is very, very inconsistent and unconstitutional. For I would also like to know which is the first and second paragraphs of this Article, from which the government is authorized. In short, I do not understand this article or this law. In fact, it is written without a tail and without a head, and I ask the government representative to explain where it belongs, where those reservations that the government will be able to withdraw under the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u11	I'll give the government a chance to respond. I would like to point out that decision-making on the home body is intended to clarify the issues related to the legislative proposals. However, there will be no debate because there are no amendments tabled and the rules of procedure do not allow it. Please, a representative of the ministry or the government, you have the floor for a brief explanation, and then we'll come to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This supplement, which is proposed, has therefore been supplemented by Article 3 of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. In Article 3, which was also published in the Official Journal and is attached to the material, Slovenia then made two reservations to the Agreement, namely, the first reservation concerning the exchange of information only with States parties to the Convention on the Protection of Individuals with regard to the automatic processing of personal data. The second reservation to this dictatorship - I will quote: "The Republic of Slovenia also joins itself in the right to make a final decision regarding the participation at the SECI Centre in Bucharest, established by Article 13 of the Agreement, once the amount of costs to be covered is fully known." And since there is already a known amount of costs, it has been estimated in the government that it makes sense that this final decision on Slovenia's participation in this centre is now being made. However, for this purpose a reservation must be withdrawn. However, since the law on external matters provides that the withdrawal of the reservation is the responsibility of the authority which has made the reservation, in this case the State assembly, which may authorise the government to withdraw the reservation, the government has proposed this solution to empower the government to withdraw the reservation. At this point, the government intends to withdraw the reservation to this second, withdraw this second reservation, but it makes sense to settle this once, it is said that the power would apply to any reservations of the first reservation. I think this has explained the question of Mr Yelinčič. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u13	Good. Before making a decision, I will give the opportunity for someone to explain his voice if he so wishes before making a decision. [[Nobody.]] Then we will move on to decision-making, i.e., as a competent working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy adopted no amendments around the second reading. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is to decide on the proposal for a law and to propose a law supplementing the law on the ratification of a cooperation agreement to prevent and combat cross-border crime. Please. There are 51, 42 for and one for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have adopted a proposal for a law supplementing the law. We can move on to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - AT THE CERTIFICATE OF THE U.S. CURRENT TEXTS, first of all the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, then the Law on Agricultural Lands and final law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed or rejected by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education shall be confirmed. We're voting. We are voting on the officially consolidated text of this law. 58 colleagues and colleagues were present, 48 were in favour, one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that we have adopted the officially refined text. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the Agricultural Lands Act is confirmed." We are voting on the officially consolidated text of the Agricultural Lands Act. We have also confirmed this refined text. 56 in attendance, 44 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] Finally, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region is confirmed." We're voting. We are voting on the officially consolidated text of this law. 58 present, 46 for, one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] We have confirmed this decision and thus conclude this 17th item of the agenda. We're moving on to the next one, 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, UNDERTAKINGS OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity and I ask the President, colleague of the Vnučec, whether he wishes to provide further explanation? [[He doesn't want to.]] I don't see any interest in explanations of vote among the parliamentary groups either. I have been informed from the SNS Group that despite that proposal they are withdrawing this, also, if I understand correctly, my colleague Peca. This concludes the debate and allows us to proceed to the vote. I will propose a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, are subject to the prohibition of the operation of a State, public undertakings and public institutions, and this amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." We are voting on this proposal. 57 present, 52 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've reached this conclusion. This concludes the 18th item of the agenda. At 19. The agenda points are on the type of mental-voluntary matters. The assembly will consider under this item on the agenda: 1. Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, 2. the proposal of the Council of Justice on the election to the judicial office and the appointment to the Supreme Court of Justice, 3. Proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of the National Council for Culture; and 4. Proposal for a Decision on Consents to the appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We are now moving on to a decision on individual proposals. First of all, we have before us the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a Vice Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 36 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint the Deputy Governor and a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije. Janez Kosak for a period of six years, starting on 26 July 2003. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? [[Neither do I.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I invite the representative of the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia, colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Group of the Social Democratic Party does not support this proposal and will not vote for it. We also mentioned the reasons on the parent’s working body. Mr Košak has performed this function so far, he has been in the position of Vice-Governor and also a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, and with such re-appointed appointments, it is appropriate to evaluate the work of an institution in which one has performed a key or one of the key functions, as well as its own work in this institution. Comments on the work of Banka Slovenije have been noted recently. I am not just thinking here of, in our opinion, inappropriate and also unlawfully giving consent to take over the majority share of energy in the case of the SIB bank. I am also thinking of a very nonshallant, which could be called the ignorant attitude of this institution towards the rights of depositors in savings and loans that they have played at this time, but although the Bank of Slovenia does not have direct powers, it has done nothing to protect the rights of thousands who have lost their modest savings at this time in some savings; Kranjska is only one of these cases. Well, and directly, Mr Košak was in charge of payment transport in Banka Slovenije at the time. Now this reform of payment transport has been one of the most traumatic in public finances reforms in Slovenia recently. I think that the deadlines for this reform have been postponed several times, that the reform has been delayed from one year to four or five and that things are still not going as they should. However, he was the one who was directly responsible for the payment turnover in this institution, which was supposed to be in charge of this reform. And if, today, in this country, anyone who works behind a running lane or behind an official counter is trying to evaluate after work I would ask my colleague Partljič to tell me these comments publicly before the assembly, not behind the back. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u15	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u16	In short, if in this country, before paying a person’s salary, working for a running tape or behind a counter in which the office assesses his work and his contribution, then it is appropriate to evaluate the work and contribution even when a person is re-appointed to a certain function that he has performed so far. This institution has not done so, has not been able to do so, and the proposal is passed by some of the most basic principles and principles. I also point out that this is an important institution, although Slovenia will no longer play such a role with the entry of Slovenia into the European Union or the European Monetary Union later on, but will play an extremely important role at this time of transition. He still has it today, and it doesn't matter who runs it. The next phase ahead of us, which we will deal with, is the appointment of two or three other members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, and following proposals from this bank, the current Governor has proposed two of his former officials or former and current officials, and in the end we will be given instead of a management of this institution one official council, which will have very little competence with regard to monetary policy. I therefore propose that this proposal by the President of the State be seriously considered before the vote and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. My friend Patche wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! The speaker before me correctly noted that this is a very important function, especially in the field of public finances, and the regulation of both monetary and fiscal policies in our country. In the National Party, we assess that the re-election of the proposed candidate, i.e. for his third term, is not appropriate. It is not appropriate because of the lack of respect for the legislative branch of power, i.e. the National Assembly, and because of the measures taken by Banka Slovenije under its partial leadership when selling the New Ljubljana Bank to a foreign buyer. As you know, the Bank of Slovenia and thus the governor and the vice-governor gave their consent to purchases that were much below the real value. At that time, the Slovenian State received one quarter of the value, which was marked as a remedial value. So: the bank was sold for 100 billion Slovenian tolars, the bank was saved for 400 billion Slovenian tolars. In the Slovenian National Party, we called on the members of the Council of Banka Slovenije and Banka Slovenije officials not to give their consent at the moment of sale of the New Ljubljana Bank and just before the approval of the Bank of Slovenia. But, of course, there was no response anywhere. In the Slovenian National Party, we further assess that institutions such as Banka Slovenije should not be subject to the daily influence of ruling political parties and, of course, to their programme, i.e. political parties, on the financial market of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, a proposal by the President of the State to give consent to mags. Janez Kosak for the Vice Governor of Banka or Banka Slovenije and a member of the world cannot be supported in any way. At the moment of the decision, however, if you also have in mind a lack of respect for, on his part, the decision of the National Assembly, especially when the speech was given in 1994, where the National Assembly, in its mandate, formulated a decision on the need for the privatisation law of banks and on the urgency of any sale. At the conclusion of the National Assembly and at the obligation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after the preparation of the Privatisation Act, the Bank of Slovenia cheers up. We estimate that this attitude of Banka Slovenije, in connection with Liberal Democracy, cannot be supported in the National Assembly. Therefore, we will not support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Would you like a word as a member of Parliament, Comrade Peca? You have now spoken on behalf of the Group of Members. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. Indeed, we are moving on to a secret vote on the proposal of the President of the Republic. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the National Assembly on the appointment of a candidate for Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, which shall be composed of the President and the four Members, whom we shall now elect. I propose that, on the basis of a proposal from the groups of Members, we appoint colleagues of Beumann, Kelemino, Yuri and colleague Areh Lavrič. Who wants to oppose this proposal or propose a different composition? If that is not the case, we will first decide on the proposal for the composition of this Commission. Please, we are voting on the composition of the commission. 59 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one's against it.]] The Commission shall be elected to carry out this secret ballot. In accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the President's table and by giving its name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with paragraph 5 of Rule 91 of the Rules of Procedure, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote in favour, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the voting room. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be in the Chamber here on my right, next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members who have been elected to the electoral commission and will assist us in the vote to meet immediately in room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 10 a.m. and 40 minutes - may I speak earlier? - at 10 p.m. 40 minutes, and it'll take up to 10 p.m. 55. Is he okay? After the vote, I will ask the Members to meet again in room 217 at 11 a.m. and then we will resume the meeting for five minutes. So, first of all, I'm asking the members of the commission to report to 217. At 10:40, we start the vote, we finish it five minutes before 11:00. At 11:05, you will be informed of the electoral record. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u20	Please take your seats. I will read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate for Vice-Governor and a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia today, 29 May 2003. 73 ballots were distributed. 73 ballots were delivered. Four votes were invalid. 69 ballots were valid. The "yes" was voted by 46 Members, "against" 23 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was appointed vice-governor and member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. Janez Koshak. The mandate shall begin on 26 July of this year, in 2003. Thank you very much. We have also done this part of this agenda item. I have before me a motion for a decision on the election to a judicial office. I'm going to ask for your attention, because we're going to make that decision. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Mr. Franc Testen to serve as Judge of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does a representative of the Council of Justice want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does her president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word of his colleague Peca? On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u21	Your Honor! As in all cases of voting or election to a judicial function or to a judicial seat, we will also be in this time, i.e. today's cases marked under point b and c - I will give an explanation at the same time - against the proposal for appointment or election from the fact that the National Assembly has once decided not to cancel with the sustainability of the judicial mandate. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the judicial function and the judicial mandate should be limited to a period of five years. We estimate that this would make the courts more quality and faster in terms of their provisions. And the first step towards an approach to improving the judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia would certainly be to define at least the duration of the mandate around the appointment or election. We will not support the proposal made under point (b) and given under point (c). Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I have no other applications to present my views or debate. That's how we get to the vote. It may be possible to explain your voice if anyone so wishes, or I will put this proposal to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia for a vote. Please. We vote on his election for judicial office. We're in the middle of a vote. 61 present. 59 for and no one against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Mr. Franz Testen has been elected to this courtroom. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mr Jan Zobc to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[Not even in this case.]] He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[Not at all.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Jan Zobc to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 62 present, 53 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that we have appointed Mr Jan Zobc to this court seat. We have before us a proposal for a decision on the appointment of the National Council for Culture. The proposal for the appointment of the National Council for Culture was tabled by the Government. He doesn't want a word. He wants to speak to the President of the Election Commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Jerovšek wishes to present his position, mag. I don't have a report on you. Please, colleague Jerovšek, behind him colleague Bevk, then three discussions and then a decision. But it will be possible to explain your voice. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u23	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished students and students on the balcony! We are ahead of the decision on an extremely important body, the National Council for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia. Culture is one of the constitutional elements of our country and therefore we would expect that the national cultural council will be even more carefully chosen. Unfortunately, this is not how the leadership of this national cultural council decided not to be important, decisive factors that should be present in the selection of the national council, especially the President of the National Council for Culture, but, obviously, ideologically, visual reasons, political reasons, which, of course, is bad for our country, for the perspective of culture and for how cultural policy will be developed in this country. On the basis of what the government has presented, we wonder whether it is a national cultural council or whether it is a coalition council for culture. Indeed, we know that proposals from members and Presidents of extremely important cultural figures have also been made in the government. Our party to this proposal will not, in particular, support this proposal because it does not agree with the proposal for the President of this National Council for Culture, although we do not oppose that Mr Lev Kreft would be a member of this National Council for Culture. However, we believe that such a world should be run by someone who participates in cultural production, but not in some way by cultural or cultural theorists, because we know that Mr Kreft is a philosopher, who also deals with conceptual patterns, a conceptual policy in this area. However, we believe that in this national council, he should be president of active cultural workers and this has not happened. We know he was a magician, too. Rudy Sheligo proposed as a candidate, but the government has not submitted him as a member of the National Council for Culture. But we know he's a magician. In an extremely short period of time, Rudi Sheligo has prepared a national cultural programme, and even after that, he has shown in some way that he can participate very significantly in this National Council for Culture. As we have already mentioned, there is no other way for us to be so contentious. In particular, it is an unacceptable recruitment for the Presidential City, because this was actually staffed purely by political, visual criteria, and as I recall, Dr. Kreft was also a few years ago a candidate for the Minister of Science and Technology in one of Drnovska's governments. But he's never been, like, proposed for a minister of culture. This makes it all the more strange that the government does not actually remember this, but it is clear here that they are deciding on some other criteria, but not deciding what a candidate is capable of and willing to propose to an all-Slovenian cultural programme. So, as has been said, we will not support this proposal, because we have also proposed and proposed to the Commission on a mandate basis to reconsider the composition and proposal for a staff composition, but our proposals have not been taken into account, which is why we cannot support this proposal in today's elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u24	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Mr Bevk will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and then we will move on to the debate of Members. Please. Buddy Bevk first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and vote in favour of the National Council for Culture as it is composed. The National Council for Culture proposes prominent figures from Slovenian public life, especially in the fields of culture, art and science. The government is proposing to the world Dr. France Bernik, Mitjo Chandra, Draga Jančar, Dr. Lev Kreft, Boris Podrecco, Mitja Rotovnik and Dr. Renato Salecl. The president is Dr. Lev Kreft. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we are convinced that the National Council for Culture is composed of a very professional and balanced body, both through cultural participation and creation and politically, if you will. That is exactly what has been most evident to the proposaler in some of the controversy. This is a matter of respectable public figures who will certainly be able to fully fulfil the mission or role assigned to this government body by the law on the exercise of public interest in culture and the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Moreover, the proposed compositions could be challenged in terms of equal representation of both sexes or in terms of equal opportunities policy. The National Council for Culture is an independent body that directs the national strategy for culture and is appointed by the National Assembly of Persons enjoying Public Respect to the Governments. To which of the proposed candidates and candidates can we say something in this regard? Nothing, nothing, I repeat. Of course, if some were not able to politicize this issue, too. But what I'm asking you is, what's wrong if someone was a politician, a vice-president of the National Assembly, or a candidate for President of the State? What is wrong with someone being a state MP or a member of the political party's leadership? In order to look at this, Members are even prohibited from simply running on certain calls, as in the case of the editor of certain media and so on and so on. It seems like we have not decided on the parliamentary democracy represented or represented by elected representatives of political parties that we are acting somehow outside the system, that once we have entered the world of politics, we have been stigmatised for life. There are many experts or vice versa among politicians, too, there can be many good politicians among experts. According to this politicized logic, the former Minister of Culture Rudi Sheligo could never become a member of the National Council for Culture, since the minister's function is an eminent political function, even though it is occupied by such a great expert or artist. Or is Presidential candidate Barbara Brezigar, or is it still logical for her to occupy the post of Attorney General? The political function performed by someone in his professional career should never have been an obstacle. In my opinion, this may even be a comparative advantage. No one has challenged Dr. Kreft's expertise, he has even been commended, I say, "that he is capable of conceptually creating ideas from the cultural field." After all, as a university professor, philosopher, publicist and public worker performed a number of important functions in the field of culture, in the media, both at Radio Student, in the Ljubljana Cultural Community, in the world of Slovenian National Theatre and Modern Gallery. In 1996, he was the first to sign a bill on cultural tolar, not to mention his rich bibliography, including the cultural field that you can see in the Cobiss system. Let me repeat, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats will support the National Council for Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u26	These were presentations of the views of the groups of Members. We will now turn to the debate of MEPs and Members. We've got three applications. My friend Potts? [[Thank you.]] Buddy Bevk? [[...]] Comrade Podobnik, you are still logged in if you want the word. Is that a misunderstanding? Please, that's how I write it down.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u28	Madam Secretary-General has warned me that, after her mistake, she has not been stated Please? [[...]] So we're not going to have much Parliament. Madam Secretary-General has informed me that I should also put Mr Podobnik on this list if there is a mistake in the secretariat. And if this is a matter of Secretariat error, I am obliged to take this into account. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u29	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The services in the parliamentary group reported yesterday on the debate of Members and on 19.d. point: "... the position of the delegation group will be presented by Janez Podobnik." We've forwarded this to the leadership of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u30	It was just in time. Please, you want a word? You have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u31	On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u32	Please, you have the floor. And I apologize for this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you, President, for your correctness. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This agenda item is an important item. Appointment of a Council for Culture is also an important decision of the National Assembly. We have discussed this issue several times in the parliamentary group, very largely also with the Minister, Mrs Richter. Article 16 states: "The National Council for Culture is an independent body that guides the national strategy for culture." Depends on what's likely. "The President and six members of the Council shall be appointed by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, of persons enjoying public reputation, for a period of five years and may be reappointed." Colleagues and colleagues, the only criterion on which the proposed government is linked is that the proposed candidates are public figures. The National Council for Culture has important competences: it monitors and assesses the impact of cultural policy on cultural development, including, for example, the draft laws and other rules on culture and those relating to culture. In accordance with the Coalition Treaty, the Government's proposals relating to human resources decisions have been precisely defined and a coalition process has been carried out, or within the framework of the provisions set out. I must tell you that the Slovenian People's Party has been actively involved in this. She also proposed a number of candidates, or, above all, a candidate who enjoys a great public reputation, since she has a doctorate in science, she is one of Plečnik's greatest acquaintances and she is also a European authority, but we have not been successful in coordination. However, this is a single position of the Group of Members to support today's proposed culture world. However, a few words must be said about this. In our view, it is very important to publicly say that it is always necessary to have the same criteria. When candidates for responsible positions are proposed, which are politically active experts who are ideologically defined, who are party-defined, it is always necessary to have the same vats on the left and on the right. I can also speak on behalf of myself that I highly appreciate Professor Kreft as a top expert in aesthetics, a man who is undoubtedly a professional authority in this field, but a man who has publicly said that he is a Marxist and an sworn leftist. That's not a negative, but he said it publicly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect Dr Lev Kreft, as president of this body, to exercise his left-wing power in a way that will not harm the work of this body. And Dr. Kreft is the kind of person who will know. It is also stated in the report of the Commission on Elections that the proposed composition of the National Council for Culture should be such that it is as balanced as possible in order to ensure that the various policy options and areas in which it is active are as balanced as possible. And the balance of interests between creators and performers. Colleagues and colleagues, we are always on slippery ground if it is necessary to assess the values and political orientations of individual members. The National Council for Culture is a body that we believe will act through these criteria or expectations, but it is true that it is not balanced. As a politician, I can see that he is not balanced. A member of this body will be an expert, Dr Renata Salecl, who is a top expert in psychoanalysis, criminology, philosophy and contemporary art, and is taking an interdisciplinary approach to analysing contemporary cultural phenomena. And especially in the framework of the analysis of modern society, it also focuses on re-examination of trends in contemporary art. That's what it says in the paper. I think it's right that we have such a member of the National Council for Culture. It is a pity, however, that we do not yet have any expert who may be a top expert in some other areas of Slovenian culture, which would of course be the authority in the field of trends in contemporary art, but also be the authority in areas that are slightly more traditional areas of Slovenian art. It is a pity that in the coalition negotiations we have not succeeded in bringing this expert into this body. Regardless of what we say, we will support the proposed National Council for Culture in the parliamentary group and expect it to work in such a way that it also raises the authority's validity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u34	I hereby conclude the debate, and before we move to a decision on this motion for a decision, I ask whether who wants to explain their vote. Comrade Petty Officer. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that. As we have learned from these presentations by the parliamentary groups, it was just a matter of enforcing a political agreement between the political parties. If we were to talk about top-notch experts who, of course, have a political preference, everyone has a political conviction, they wouldn't even object because everyone is ideological or political. This is right and nothing wrong. Nor would it be wrong for Dr. Kreft to appear among the people who would be members of this world. It exposes and sticks just like that. This is its distinct political dimension and, on the other hand, its background is this dimension of culture or a slight contact with this culture. Its position is essential, not just any kind of world, but important for Slovenian cultural, democratic and political space. This is also a message, not only to our public, but also to the other public. They were to choose a politically eminent person, not an eminent cultural person, either in terms of creativity or creativity, even though it would have a political dimension. That is why, of course, we are opposed to this world in the parliamentary group. Although other candidates we did not look at politically, we looked at them mainly in their works. And these people, I can tell myself, they're not at issue with me because I've been watching them, and I've been looking at them, especially through this magnifying glass. But it is precisely because of what I have pointed out in the beginning, but unfortunately we will not be able to vote for this world for culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u36	We're moving on to decision-making. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u37	Mr. President! Our Group of Members would like to consult before deciding and ask for half an hour's recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u38	Okay. At 12 and 10 minutes, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision. At 12 o'clock and 10 minutes, we'll proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u39	Dear Members, honourable Members! Let's get back to work. At 12:10 a.m., we're supposed to move on to decision-making. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has requested a leave of absence for consultation before the decision is taken. The representative of the parliamentary group, Mr Janez Janša, will present the position of the delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u40	The appointment of Mr Lev Kreft as President of the National Council for Culture is the same as the appointment of Mr Janez Kocjančič as President of the Council of RTV Slovenia. In short, it is the politicisation of two institutions that must have been already defined outside the field of direct policy and independent. Now this proposal by the government or the minister of the United List only strengthens us in the conviction that the current policy of feuding everything in Slovenia is a public sphere, and that such extreme cases of clientism, connection and linkage of things that should not be associated with daily policy, as they have in cases of SIB bank and other very obvious cases, have not learned anything from the government coalition. Perhaps it is also so that the Socialist Party's Group appeals to everyone in this national assembly not to vote in favour of such a composition of the Council, especially because of the President who is proposed - and in our opinion he cannot be at the head of the national body for culture. In this way, we will give the government another opportunity to propose a more acceptable proposal to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Someone else wants to explain their vote before we go to the vote. [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of the National Council for Culture. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 25 votes against 28. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Mr. Weber, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u42	I just want to warn you because my voting device is not working if we can check the device and vote again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u43	In any case, we are obliged to check Mr Webra's voting device. The result of the vote was announced. We know, of course, that there is no re-voting under the Rules of Procedure in the event that the outcome of the vote has already been declared. Forward, of course, unless we find out technically that the device does not work in itself. I ask the representatives of the technical services to examine Mr Webra's voting apparatus. The voting apparatus is fine, as noted by the representative of the technical service. I'm closing this agenda item. We are moving to the last item in the framework of the mandate-election issues, to consider the proposal for a decision on consent to the appointment of the Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for an agreement to be appointed to the Assembly. Would you like a representative of the world to say a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the agreement to appoint Dr. Gregor Jurak as Director of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 19th A-point of the agenda - a defensive proposal for a law on the pre-signed interest rate of late interest, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? Representative of the Government of Mag. Anton Zunič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u44	Madam President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest is that it is necessary to amend the legislation governing the indexation of interest rates. The basic interest rate and the indexation of interest rates are governed by the Act on the prescribed interest rate of late interest published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 45/95 and No 109/1. All indexing mechanisms have so far been meaningful in terms of high inflation. In the current situation, however, relatively low and declining inflation only maintains high inflation expectations and continues to sustain higher inflation. In addition to other deindexation measures, the deindexation of interest rates is also necessary, and we are proposing a new law which deals only with the prescribed interest rate of late interest and which proposes the abolition of the applicable law so far, which means the abolition of the legal regime of the basic interest rate and the related indexation of interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur, Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee considered that law to be a working body of the mother and agreed with its content. After a brief discussion, he has adopted an amendment to Article 3 to amend the content of this Article and I propose that we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Diaci will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. In the Party of Young Slovenia we will support this law because it is logical and normal. Perhaps it would not be bad for the government to submit it some year or two earlier, because I think that is why the conditions have been met, but at the same time we expect that inflation expectations, which are somehow integrated into the system also through this law, will now be reduced, which will also have a beneficial impact on our inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u50	I will briefly present the position of our parliamentary group, which, of course, agrees with the bill. We believe that the time has come for these changes to take place. However, inflation is slowing down and somehow narrowing itself down to diapazones one to two percent of the forecast. And I think that with all the measures that the government is preparing and that we will probably take in the National Assembly, this will finally be stopped at the level that we all want together. Interest was also one of the causes of inflation, and by setting the maximum interest rate, 17 per cent, and ending TOM, this will also have a positive impact on the reduction of inflation, so we fully support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Cyril Pucko. Mr Blaž Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. In the LDS, we believe that the amendment of the law on the prescribed interest rate of late interest is essential in order to comply with other changes in the financial regulatory area. Otherwise, or in case of non-admission of this law, the late interest rate methodology could even receive a less important but still role of the inflation generator. The abolition of the basic interest rate as a rebalancing instrument and efforts to phase out indexation are essential measures to further reduce inflation in Slovenia. In short, it is estimated that the proposed nominal late interest rate of 17% would be an appropriate solution for the next period and we will therefore support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the government's decision to introduce into our financial system the indexation we know in the form of a basic interest rate, through a proposal for a law on the prescribed interest rate. The government also argues that this move will help to end inflation more quickly and they claim this in their reports and assessments in the International Monetary Fund and in some European Commission missions, and it is not possible to overlook that none of the other candidate countries uses indexation for full membership. We are, in principle, such an opinion, but at the same time note that the experience of the process of de-indexing interest rates does not fully support this assumption. The gradual deindexation has been carried out since the middle of last year and applies to cash liabilities with a maturity of up to one year. There have also been claims in the public that had a background at the top of the Slovenian monetary authority that deindexation has not affected the reduction of interest rates so far, but that it was even the other way around. The correct answer was neither from the Bank of Slovenia nor from the Bank of Slovenia. Some prominent Slovenian banking experts are also convinced that eliminating nominalism causes higher interest rates. It is true, however, that there are also conflicting claims that the removal of deindexation will lead to lower interest rates and thus to lower inflation. In recent weeks, we have observed in the media allegations that the Slovenian monetary authority was not fully aware of the details and solutions of this law. Most likely, however, this communication between the government and the top of the Slovenian monetary authority was exposed and a simulation of the removal of TOM at the level of interest rates was carried out and that the government obtained the opinion of the Bank of Slovenia. The Secretary of State, I am sure you will explain whether you have had contact with the Bank of Slovenia on such a sensitive issue and decision. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are somehow more likely to join those Slovenian macro-economics who see the main cause of inflation in our overexpenditure, which is also caused by the rapid growth of wages, especially in the service and public sectors, and this is not consistent with the growth of gross social product. Two solutions are possible: either to limit wage growth or to increase gross social product growth. We know how to do both ways. A reduction in wage growth could be achieved by abolishing indexation. The government has decided to transfer this to next year. If you had decided to do so this year, you would have the full support of the Slovenian People's Party. It is true, however, that we agree that sudden shock therapy would hit people with low incomes when the indexation is eliminated, so we would propose the principle of graduality and linking wages and interest rates and the price of services to the euro; therefore, this should be done gradually. With this indexation, it is therefore important to take good care. As we are told, however, we are convinced that the purpose of this law is to be adopted, that it has also been accompanied by relevant expert opinions on the effect of this law on its objectives. The parliamentary group supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the government or the legislature have not informed me that the law is inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. In principle, our parliamentary group does not oppose the proposal of this law, but we note that it is likely that this change that is ahead of us today would not have happened if Slovenia were not approached by the European Community if it were not for pressure on our monetary policy from the outside as well as recommendations. In short, our parliamentary group has long since proposed that it be reasonable for the basic interest rate to be abolished and to arrive at a nominal interest rate. That's what we talked about back in 1998. I have also personally warned about these things, but there was no understanding, because it is clear that the existing policy, which at the time led everything and led and will probably for a long time, protects some of the capital interests of banks, misleading people, etc. In short, you remember that we had an interest rate of TOM+8, and if you asked an ordinary citizen what the interest rate was, he said, "They told me at the bank that it was 8%." But nobody's ever said it was 12 and a half. So we also had over 20% interest rate. And it was certainly one of the engines of inflation, some of the special expectations and benefits of banks that somehow drained the economy and also individuals when they accounted for high, hard to say, unfair interest. Outside, such interest has always been without a basic interest rate. TOM is our Slovenian specialty. In all of this, of course, it is interesting that there was no interest so far in changing these things, except last year or 2001, when we started to change some of these things, and that you came to this realization. In short, we don't object, even though it all seems ironic and ridiculous to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] That way we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 19th C.P.D. - D.D.'s Proposal for a Law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Dars, D. D. For the purpose of renting credits for the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 246,7 2 million, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the committee, Mr. Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The Infrastructure Committee considered the proposed Act on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia Dars to rent credits for the realisation of Slovenian motorways worth EUR 246,72 million. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in its opinion drew attention to the reference to the plans of the past years and the coherence of the national programme for the construction of motorways, on which the National Assembly adopted an additional decision last year 2.4 proposing that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submit a new amendment of the national programme to the National Assembly by the end of June 2002. It also points to the necessary delimitation of the conditions for the borrowing of loans and the issue of bonds and the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of the Act. With regard to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and in accordance with the debate held at the Committee's meeting, the Committee drafted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 and deleted Article 3 and supplemented the title of the Act with the amendment to add the issue of bonds to the title in addition to the borrowing of the loan. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the law submitted be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dear Members and honourable Members, all of you, in fact, acting as rapporteurs and representing the positions of the home working bodies, and those representing the views of the members of the groups, the agreement was that all of this was probably the place to address the national assembly directly behind the speaker, probably because all Members and Members had a message about the views of the members of the groups and rapporteurs. Therefore, I think it would be good for the basic political culture to hold on to this agreement, or in some way already narrow, which in the National Assembly can almost be called established practice. So, here comes the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members. Mr Pece has been asked to present the position of the Group of Members, but he is not here at the moment. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Company for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia [[Dars, d.d.]] So far, according to our information, 1,263 million credit agreements have been concluded with domestic and foreign financial lenders, of which 769 million euros have been drawn up by 31.12.2002. Dars will therefore be additionally in charge of 19.53% of the bill under consideration today. By law, the State guarantees Dars to rent a loan to complete the financial construction for the sections of the Beach-Trebnje-Krastje, the stage of Korenitska-Plutka, Hrastje-Kronovo, the stage of Hrastje-Lešnica, Šentvid-Kosese, Smlednik-Krška vas, Škofije-Srmin, Podtabor-Naklo and Krška vas-Brežje. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we would like to point out that in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, there are also sections of Pomurje which are located on the fifth transport corridor Barcelona-Kiev. The national programme also states that the early construction of the fifth corridor represents the achievement of the central strategic objective of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the sections within the fifth corridor have a special advantage both in terms of financing and in terms of physical realization, irrespective of the internal rate of profitability, as a criterion for assessing the effectiveness of investments in roads. However, despite the obligation under the national programme, the suburban motorway sections cannot possibly reach the annual development and maintenance plans of the motorways, which of course does not apply to those sections. Among these are sections which are foreseen in the national programme in the timely implementation for implementation later as pomurski, that not all of them are lying in the fifth corridor, which is the strategic objective of the Republic of Slovenia, nor am I speaking. Of course, the Pomurians can only ask themselves why the National Assembly has even adopted a national programme if it is not taken into account by approving the annual plans and the consent laws for borrowing credits such as this. Article 3 of the proposed law states that Dars benefits from the credit funds provided for in Articles 1 and 2 of this Act, in accordance with the building dynamics set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the annual plans for the development and maintenance of motorways. However, in the construction dynamics of the national programme, the pomur sections are intended to be carried out before most of those listed in this Act. For this I also ask the proposer when the remaining pomur sections will come into the annual plan. But the section of the Wolf Village to Maribor. The investment value of these sections is defined in the 1998 national highway construction programme by approximately €463 million and the proposed law states that the investment value of these sections is €56541 million. So it's more than 100 million euros or 23.3 million Slovenian tolars in five years. The projected credit will be drawn in annual instalments until 2008 and will have a repayment period of 30 years and a five-year moratorium on principal repayment. It is also stated that the funds to repay the loans received will be provided by Dars d.d. from the funds collected from the tolls. Who pays the most toll? Certainly also Pomurci, because they are the farthest from Ljubljana. So they'll give the most, but they'll get the least. 25. Article 25 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004 provides that the extent of the State guarantees issued under the Laws on Guarantees for Credit Liabilities and Domestic Legal Persons shall not exceed the total amount of the principals of 90 billion Slovenian Tolars in 2003. By 1.5.2003, one guarantee contract was concluded and a new guarantee under the proposed law was made for additional 57.5 billion Slovenian tolars. As we can see, Dars simply writes: since the resources provided for the construction of the initial and new sections are not sufficient, it is necessary to rent EUR 231.5 million of additional financial credits or issue debt securities of EUR 231.5 million and issue debt securities to which buyers are expected to be institutional investors, CAD insurance companies, pension companies, amounting to EUR 15.22 million. In particular, when adopting annual plans, we should ask whether they are compatible with the national programme, if the financial structure for implementation presented is realistic and whether it makes financial sense for the country to make guarantees with such ease. These loans will also be paid by Pomurci, who, we know, are being played with any new adoption of the annual plan. Therefore, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we expect the government to first respect the national programme for the construction of motorways and the achievement of the strategic objective, but if you fail to do so, propose amendments and supplements to the national programme for the construction of motorways, as most of the latest annual plans [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Lenko will not present the position, the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by Mr Branko Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In the LDS Group, we are aware of the importance of this law. In fact, we don't care whether the project of building Slovenian motorways will continue with the dynamics it was originally set up. However, it would be necessary to point out, however, the stigmatistics or inconsistencies of the law's proponents in the part where they define the hiring of credits and the issuing of an obligation to build individual motorway sections. This law is certainly an important part of the increase in the responsibility for the construction of motorways. And in this part, it seems to us that derogations from the original national programme are essential. We therefore reiterate the decision already taken to draw up a national programme balance which, despite repeated warnings, has not been drawn up at the right time and is already more than a year late. It also seems important for us to reconsider in the planned national programme rebalancing whether Slovenia will build the entire motorway cross only with its own resources, by borrowing or starting to become more energetic in its private sector in terms of investment in Slovenian infrastructure projects. In addition, it seems to us that it would be worth considering whether to increase the volume of issuance of securities, i.e. bonds, including sections envisaged for construction in the following year or until the final completion of the implementation of the fifth and tenth corridor, it is likely necessary to re-examine how concessions for the construction of individual motorway sections are needed. Here again, the Government is reminded to draw up a rebalancing of the national debt programme as soon as possible, with the envisaged issuances of bonds and with a programme to what extent and to what extent they would still approach the construction of individual sections on the basis of the concessions granted. Thank you very much. The LDS will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Vila Trofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Until the various views on the performance on behalf of the members of the groups are cleared, I have decided that I will also speak - I apologize. Although we will support the law on debt and bond issuance in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we note that two types of projects are listed, namely those already under way, which we consider questionable borrowing of loans for a project already under way, and, of course, those projects for which Darsa's 2004 annual programme was adopted last December were envisaged to start this year. For these sections, it is estimated that this procedure is absolutely too late and that, therefore, the envisaged construction dynamic will not be met, because if we adopt a law in the middle of the year, debt decisions, then clearly follows that the delivery of the work, the start of the part cannot be operationally within the appropriate time frame, and that, of course, after our assessment, the expected completion deadlines on these sections will also be jeopardised, we would find it much more reasonable that such decisions should go hand in hand, or just to adopt the annual programmes in the future. Of course, on this occasion we would also like to say that it would be good to say the criteria of how these seven sections were included in this law or program, so those in progress, I mean two, like those who go or are supposed to go into construction this year. The criteria would then likely lead to a broad conclusion in favour of the further implementation of the national programme for the construction of Slovenian motorways. Let me get this straight. Once again, we will support the proposed law, even though we stand on the point that lending is questionable in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u66	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we see the subject matter of the law that we are meeting with through two levels. The first level is the construction of motorways, the need for a highway cross and the related ratings for users of motorways as well as for the country. This aspect of this law is undeniably undeniable, for it is likely that everyone in this country wants the highway cross to be built as soon as possible, and perhaps in the past we all wanted the highway cross to be made within the time frame promised by the operators of these works. Unfortunately, as in many areas where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has its hunters, its fingers, there are delays and increasingly costly burdens on the performance of individual works. The second part, which, according to our assessment, is much more controversial, is, of course, funding - financing for the construction of motorways. The fact is that for every square meter, a square kilometer, however we want, in short, financial resources are needed for each section, and that these financial resources need to be provided. It is necessary to say at the beginning and at the introduction that, as far as the European Union is concerned, we are so eager to compare ourselves, it does not have a single funding system. Which means that this is left to individual countries to create this way most appropriately for them. On the one hand, this means that the individual countries and the "per partes" deal with this funding and try to arrange it in such a way that it will be least painful for their citizens and, of course, for their treasury. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in explaining the law as the main solution to the bill, suggests that essentially the purpose of this law is to provide guarantees for Darsa's obligations in the Republic of Slovenia. Under the assessment of the financial implications, because this is very important, we consider it to be even the most important part of the law, and the government says that the adoption of the guarantee law does not require the adoption of new or changes to the rules in force. Of course, the law itself will have no financial implications if only the coverage is provided by Dars. However, we all know that in the final stage this guarantee will also reach the final payer, that is, the countries of the Republic of Slovenia, which will in the final stage also cause an increase in public debt or will be shown by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia through a deficit. In the Slovenian National Party, we find the system completely irrelevant and harmful for the development of public finances, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. by issuing bonds to cover or guarantee bonds. We estimate that this way will only continue to be an agony of impreciseness, as the fact is that despite the bond law, where the Ministry of Finance can issue them by a mile without the consent of the National Assembly, this country is working very frequently. Otherwise, none of those actors that we think should have any sense of the existence of bonds do. On the other hand, it is, of course, reasonable to say that when the State sells the New Bank of Ljubljana with a purchase, it will commit itself to doing something about it. We have received slightly less than a hundred billion Slovenian tolars lying abroad today. The President, the current finance minister, Tone Rop, said that we cannot bring this money to our country because it would have a negative impact on the value of the Slovenian tolar. In short, there'll be too much money in circulation. On the other hand, we rent or receive a certain amount of money through the issuance of bonds. Of course, according to our assessment, the purpose of this law is speculation. Because the fact is that if the Slovenian Government, as a proponent of a source of funding, really wanted to achieve or pursue only one goal, that is to finance this, it would provide the necessary funds from the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank. Since the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, something has passed and the funds are still standing abroad. Of course, because in the Slovenian National Party we assess that this kind of financial work of the Slovenian Government is not only imprudent, not only imprudent, but harmful to the development of public finances and purpose causes a deficit, such as this, we cannot adopt. The fact is, if the government acted responsibly, the fact is that, given the need for a road cross, the government would also have in mind credibility or a strong financial policy, building highways, according to our assessment in this part of the law, would be covered by a purchase. For as long as the purchase stays abroad and under such a contract as we have with a foreign bank regarding the purchase, we will not get the fingerprint money for which we sold the left hand share of the New Ljubljana Bank, unfortunately, we will have nothing. According to our assessment, the government should also be a better host in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. A few glances are strange, precisely allow me to introduce you to the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] The second reading debate shall only be permitted under the individual articles to which amendments are tabled. In the second reading, we do not have any amendments tabled at the plenary session, so there is no debate and it is obvious that there has been a high quality debate in the work body, amendments adopted that are included in the complementary draft law to which the parliamentary groups have been identified. I hereby conclude this part and move on to the third consideration of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. I also inform you that the government and the legal and regulatory services have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. An explanation of vote, first Mr Sok, then Mr Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to explain my vote by saying that we will not support this proposal. We would, of course, like the Slovenian road cross to be built as soon as possible, and I must make it clear that we want these matters to be carried out in a transparent way, not in such a way that when the money runs out, we are always in debt. For more than a year, the government has promised to provide the national council with a rebalancing of the national highway construction programme. These are the promises of a document that is supposed to do so, and it is not in the National Assembly. As a member of the north-eastern part of Slovenia, I am sure I am interested in when, with all this debt and this building that we can observe today, the pomurski leg of the Slovenian highway cross will be built. I am also interested in when the construction of the Ormož-Markovci road, which is part of the transport agreement, or Ormož-Slovenian Bistrica of 1993 will take place. In this part, between Ormož and Gorišnica, purchases of land were made years ago. When adopting the programme, my fellow Member, Mr Willi Trofenik, proposed an amendment last year, which meant one hundred percent of what we are giving today's debt guarantees. And that amendment wasn't adopted at the time, apparently not because I didn't personally vote for it because I wasn't here at the time. But it is for the government and the ruling coalition to decide how this programme will proceed. I want to know when it's gonna be the turn of Ptuj. 36,000 cars drive across the only bridge every day! Finally, I would like to inform you that the people who live along the Maribor-Hajdin road are also past patience. We could be facing the closure of this road this year during the tourist season. And if that happens, then believe me, the convoys of cars will be standing next to Shentyl. These people don't require this to be done next year or, I don't know, in two years, but they want to be honest with them when they can still count on not being on the road, I don't know, waiting 15 minutes before they can cross this road because of traffic congestion. The government should realise what the National Assembly has already adopted and come to the National Assembly with the balance of this national programme; then we will be able to discuss these matters more easily. This time we will not vote in favour of this guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I very much ask that all those who explain your voice do not use this time to open questions, refer them to the government, when we all know that the government does not have a word and there is no way to answer questions. So I ask very nicely that we are right here and yet, in the context of the explanations of vote, we say why we support or do not support the bill. Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Our Group of Members will not support this proposal and we have already made this clear on the Infrastructure Committee and also on the Finance Committee, and we are just joining what is written in Del on page 1 today to be a billion-dollar squabble. In fact, there's no telling who's drinking, who's paying. This has also been made clear, or at least detected on the committee itself, because also government Members do not have an overview of the whole event of the motorway programme, and the fact is that this motorway programme is delayed for years and years. We know by what time he was originally thinking, regardless of extensions and extensions and so on, and he will be more than 10 years late in the final phase. Of course, it irritates and it's all built up like that, or most things, on credit. We know that. Who's going to pay for all this, but it's another question. But don't bother so much, it's more disturbing that these very independent media in our country are then in their summaries, so they're fighting so that the National Assembly doesn't accidentally tolerate meetings of the National Assembly or maybe even meetings of working bodies that fight against it. All this information, which has been given on the Infrastructure Committee, on the Finance Committee, is completely distorted and written here even so that none of the opposition or anyone has come forward and asked any questions, such as and otherwise, substantively, on this issue. How is this possible, why, in at least one word, in one sentence, at least in rounding, they do not say that the opposition has not supported, say, this proposal or, the SDS does not agree, doubts it, and so on. No! No! The MPs have accepted, confirmed and so on. And that's what happens forever. Forever! In short, because of such deformities that occur and these objective, independent journalists, who should find them a particular name - these are individuals, of course - have an impact on public opinion and also on how and why they vote in this country or in the national assembly and who supports or does not support it. In short, I took this opportunity to protest against such reporting, and this account has been warned enough. It is because of this impossibility that follows from all these documents - we all know that this is true - that some will support this proposal. We won't. We won't. Regrettably, this transparency will not, and we know that, regardless of the violations of the decisions of the Finance Committee, the Infrastructure Committee, the National Assembly which it has adopted in this regard against Dars, there will be no anti-Dars government, how these things would be required to be regulated, nothing will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I have to warn you again. It is not possible to use the Institute to explain the voice to determine its personal opinion until the way in which the article is written in the newspaper. I very much ask that, in the context of the explanation of vote, as it is, of course, in the spirit of such an institution, the reasons for the support or against it of the bill be defined. In this way, I will continue to remind the individuals who will use this institute for other purposes than it is intended to do. Mr. Bake's explanation for the voice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u72	In the Slovenian National Party, we are aware that we are not talking about the construction of motorways today. And I think it would make sense that we are all aware of this, but we are talking about financial resources. In spite of the fact that the government provides from their document: the financial consequences of this law would only affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of a recovery under the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for those loans or the issue of debt securities and would consequently affect the state budget. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ensures that the State will only take over these bonds under these conditions. And this condition or this matter will come true. In the final phase, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will bear the full value of the bonds and probably some other amount of money at the same time. In the Slovenian National Party, I already said on behalf of the parliamentary group, we cannot agree to this source of funding. It would make much more sense, according to our assessment, to obtain money from the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is so untransparent at this time in a German bank. And also explained to Mr Roman Jakić, who was surprised by this Slovenian financial establishment. Mr Jakič, it is Mr President of the Prime Minister Anton Rop who does not allow the purchases of the New Ljubljana Bank to be brought to the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Let me first see if I've written down everyone you wanted to explain. Mr Drobnic, Mr Mamić, Mr Trophynik, Mr Anderlich. Did I miss anyone? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. You will perform in this order. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u74	Thank you very much. First of all, to my fellow Member. Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u75	No, Mr. Tiny, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u76	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u77	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u78	I can use a categorical voice-explanatory device to explain anything [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u79	No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u80	The only thing I can't do is hurt. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u81	Please, please. I would like to remind you to explain your vote within these two minutes. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u82	I can use words, all comparisons, parabola, whatever I want to express my consent or disagreement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u83	By Law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u84	You can't do this to me, it's not in your possession. [[...]] You really don't take my word for it again. Allow me to speak at the time I have at my disposal, but I must not be offended. That's all you can think of.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u85	Explanation of the vote, sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u86	Let me explain my voice. Thank you very much. I don't think it's worth discussing, because now you've taken my time, the seconds are running, please turn back, because I've wasted one minute to discuss with the president - I can't talk like that. And it says here in the paper: Members, we haven't said a word to Dars. Today is the word "here" to the press. So why don't we support this concept: because this concept is wrong about building highways in Slovenia, because everything is burdened by its own finances, its own capital, which it doesn't. Something has been stolen; otherwise, heritage from the past cannot offer what is sufficient for a solid public road construction. After all, Germany, Switzerland, Austria are building with international capital through concessions, because this is, however, too much of a burden on public finances. Because in Slovenia this concept has been adopted that we will build it all in our own garden, of course, the burden on public finances is great. Therefore, of course, it is now necessary to provide credit for these performances. Excuse me, these guarantees will go the same way as the railways, like the next railroad law, and the guarantees will be renewed. That is why I also oppose this law because it is another millstone to public finances, due to the wrong decision - not now, not this year, but years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Mamić, please. [[The ad from the bench.]] Please! Mr. Mamić has a word and no one else. It's about respect for the speaker, please! Here you go, Mr. Mamic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll put it this way for starters: I'll vote no. Not so as not to take the highway, but because when I stepped into this Parliament and started to do so, I was happy with the word "gas tolar" - that is, the law that was passed so many years ago. If we were to stick to this law, today it would be a substantial number of road programs or should be somewhere near the place without a single tolar loan if that money remained in its industry, which would be very, very correct if we were correct among ourselves. And because that money was spent on things that no one knows about, at least in the opposition we don't know where that money went - so like fresh capital was used for budget holes or I don't know what. At that time, loans were needed to enable the road programme to continue. And then - I don't know if because I was too small myself and I kept asking what was going on with that gas tolar - it changed nicely: no more petrol tolls, now they're going to make highways out of excise duty, now it's an integral budget and I don't know what else, but to empty the frog anyway, and that's a matter of government. This is completely untransparent and unacceptable to me - such a policy at all. So this is just one segment of what is being done wrong in our Parliament. And at best, even though I know what a highway program means, and I'm for doing it, but you also do it in a fair way and there are no such problems. That's why we fight. I can't give my vote for this marriage at the best of my will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, I will support the proposed law. Of course, I would like to support him even more if he were included in a section from northeastern Slovenia. However, it is necessary to be corrected: this debt scheme follows the annual programme of Darsa for 2003, and this needs to be established. And, of course, I would be even more pleased to have this done earlier, since it would be a guarantee that the sections would be built in time. Now that it's relatively late, we're already in the middle of the year, but I'm a skeptic if these sections are built in time and I'm afraid this will have a negative impact on further construction. It must be recognised that this is a new quality, it is a bond issue, which in any case is a more appropriate instrument for providing the necessary resources than classical debt, and it is also a more stable source. Of course, I expect and I am sure that this is not the only issue of bonds for the implementation of this programme at this time. However, I will refrain from all those statements that would be necessary in explanation of vote because they could lead to controversy with the speaker; and perhaps the second time we talk about the national programme's rebalancing. Once again, I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u92	I will support the proposed law, although in many ways it is difficult to understand that we are practically confirming only what we have already adopted in this National Assembly twice: the first time we put these motorway sections into the programme of a rebalanced programme of the national programme, the second time we put them into the annual highway construction programme for 2003, and it was then envisaged that this and the next law would have to be adopted. Why we have such an arrangement that we have to decide the same thing twice, is another issue. Today, when we talk about consent and the second time about the guarantee, there is a second discussion. I will support the law because this law implements the programme to build motorways in Slovenia after a slowing down of dynamics, but it is being realized; because it solves the biggest traffic problems, Šentvid - Koseze for example. In the near future, these transport problems will be resolved - the biggest bottleneck - because traffic security is improving and, of course, all of this is provided for in the macroeconomic criteria that the government has also adopted in 2003 and 2004 when the budget implementation law is available, when it can provide guarantees, when it can take part in certain matters. It is certainly also important to stress that the construction of motorways in this way also promotes domestic economic growth, which is twice as high in Slovenia as in some countries that join the European Union as well as in the countries of the European Union. So he doesn't think it's a dilemma not to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Above all, I will vote against this law because it is the guarantees of the state and we have not received comprehensive images so far, no matter what we demand and how many times we advertise in this regard. We have asked the government certain questions on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. There were no answers: not at the time, not at the meetings of this national assembly, and you can look at this in a magnetogram. Such an approach to the indebtedness of Slovenia, without any professional explanation as to why the government has decided to take such an approach and not one of the 27 different, is questionable. I think it is irresponsible of us to support this, but I would like to hear from those who support this law why they support such a way of borrowing and financing the highway programme. The fact is, of course, we look forward to every progress in this area, even if it is sluggish, and certainly share with all hope that this will end as soon as possible. However, we cannot agree with our Government's irresponsible treatment of this national assembly and is not prepared to explain its professional approaches in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. So we can go to the vote? We're voting. There are 58 of us in attendance, 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. B PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE DESCRIPTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR COMMITMENTS FROM LENT CREDITS AND OF DESCRIPTION OF DESCRIPTION PAPERS D. For the implementation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to 246,72 million Euros, an emergency flood. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Chairman of the Committee Cyril Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! That draft law was considered by the Committee at two extraordinary meetings, mainly for reasons where a number of comments were made on the initial proposal by the Legal and Legislative Service. In order to try to resolve them and thus improve the content of the law, at the other part of these meetings we have prepared amendments to most articles to help improve and clarify the individual provisions of the original text of the law. In the debate, the members of the Committee focused in particular on the issues relating to the exercise of the obligations of Dars d.d. also on the basis of the issue of public debt bonds or possibly separately; then on the opinion of the proposer of the law on the envisaged development of tolls over the next 30 years, as the company of the motorways of Slovenia will provide the means of repayment of the credit received from the funds of the tolls collected; the fuse in the event that the lender of the foreign bank is no longer present but the financing is carried out through the issuance of bonds on the domestic market; a more precise definition of the rate of interest on bonds, in particular in terms of the achievement of the maximum profitability for potential investors in the purchase of securities; an overview of the overall status of the debt of Dars d.d., which would otherwise include an introductory explanation of the proposed law, with a view of an in-depth introduction to the process of the construction of motorways. Many questions were raised in relation to what I said at the previous point in the National Assembly today and it would be good for government representatives to explain them once again that there would be no abuse, or ambiguity in the dynamics of the construction of the entire highway network in Slovenia. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I propose that the amended law with the amendments of the committee, which, of course, are now the integral text of the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, be adopted after consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. At the outset, the government representative did not understand my invitation to complete the explanation of the bill. That's how I give my word to a representative of the government. Here you go. Mag. Anton Zunič, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go. You can go to the center. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the light of all these issues that have arisen today, the law that we are currently considering has been discussed on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. However, a number of new issues emerged later, which are related to this way of financing at the mentioned motorway sections amounting to EUR 246 million, which is, of course, the first time since 1994, when a motorway programme was launched. Why did we, as a government, support such a way of financing? As a government, we have supported such a method of financing because bonds allow the time-sharing of Dars' liabilities or the time-sharing of liabilities under the motorway programme. Credits are burdened with a shorter duration. However, the bonds allow for the same possible return that they would have achieved, with the same potential return that they would have achieved on the market, to allow longer duration due to the fact that the principals are repaid at the end of the period and, of course, interest is paid on the basis of a proposal for a law once a year. We have, under the Debt Procedures Regulation, if this law is adopted, the possibility for the Ministry of Finance to monitor further the debt of these instruments, which will be adopted, following the following activities. First of all, there is agreement to be issued on the issue of securities. This means that the government is actually once again giving its consent. Then there's consent to the selection of counsellor. It is expected that this bank would be in the process of issuing securities. A review of the reports of the legal and financial adviser shall follow. There is agreement on the text of the prospectus in the issue of the bonds, which is in the function of the contract. Before this prospectus is issued, the creation of a sub-legislative act on the way in which the Republic of Slovenia guarantees issued bonds Dars. Finally, the procedures after the completion of the procedure, the entry of KDD bonds, the placing of bonds on the stock market, and, of course, the decision on whether there will be a public tender or a closed tender. I want to say that we have a very predictable and stable procedure under the existing regulation, which, if adopted, of course we will follow fully. If the procedure expires this month, it will be possible to issue the bond within the time limit necessary to finance these motorway sections. The additional funding instrument will in fact cost the same building dynamics and the same construction scale. This option will be given, but the scope of the bonds and the profitability of the bonds are not clearly defined in the future. We have only defined the framework, because this will only be known in that part of the said procedure when we test the market, it is said that when the chosen agent tests the market and based on the "feet back" analysis we will find out what profitability must be comparable to the already issued securities for public debt financing or similar instruments with State guarantee, then we will of course see what the market is capable of with regard to the volume of bonds and the profitability. It is clear, however, that bonds will not be issued to a greater extent than they will allow for such defined profitability. Why haven't we decided on other sources of bond financing? For example, the State of the Republic of Slovenia has the option of repaying its obligations, its debt, its existing debt, including through the use of purchases or the use of other instruments. The possibility of using the Ljubljana Bank's purchase is shown in the palm of your hand. Formally, under the existing Public Finance Act, it is possible to use the ransom to repay public debt. Last year we set the Ljubljana Bank's purchase project on several possible variants, scenarios. One scenario was to repay public debt and the other scenario was combined, it is said that the purchase would essentially be used for partial public debt repayment, and in part they would use the purchase to recall all those public debt instruments that were called back, while having a return which was significantly too high in terms of market capacity. We have decided and obtained the government's agreement to negotiate with state bond holders. The success of the project has been known, and has already been published. We have managed to replace over 170 billion tolars of bonds and have saved over 135 billion tolars in this balance sheet for the state budget. If we went directly into the use of the purchase, the savings would be significantly lower. This is also true at the moment when we decide which resources to use. There is always a need to look at, say, the asset and liabilities of the sovereign consolidation balance sheet and weigh the options. We estimate that the market conditions are favourable to the financing of existing or proposed motorway sections at home, so we are convinced that it is worth going to this project and therefore we believe that the explanation is also professionally supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We will hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u100	Your Honor! My assessment is also that the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia and the continuation and proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia could be combined into one substance. However, if the procedure has been applied in such a way that these are separate laws, although in fact and substantively speaking about the same or very similar matter, it makes sense immediately at the outset to say about the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in order to replace this address with: a proposal for a law on the debt of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the role of the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee will soon become the main debtor. It follows that we will not support this bill in the Slovenian National Party either. However, I would like to touch on another matter, the matter just mentioned by the government representative on bonds, the sense of issuing bonds in the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia is one of those countries in transition, which is at the rate of issue of bonds in the first place. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia issues several types of bonds on its own every month, thereby incurring the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Here I would like to refer to why Slovenia issues, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Finance, the issue of the bond. Because with the new issue of bonds, it covers the old issue of bonds. This way of thinking is also unique only to the Slovenian government. Therefore, speaking about bonds as a dispersed form of a source of funding and thus transparency, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for this speaker, cannot be credible. On the other hand, it is necessary to say when it was discussed by a government representative about the purchases obtained by the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, that this purchase was minimal and if I quote the speaker before me, who said that last year, within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Finance Ministry, they found that they had several possible scenarios. Last year. So it's obvious that this country is selling our assets, our state assets, but it doesn't even know what will happen to our financial assets. It's like a household sells a piece of its property, but it doesn't know why it sells it because it has nothing to do with it. I think this is more than a disgraceful response from the government, which has now said why it sold the New Ljubljana Bank. Not because of the need for funding, not because of the vision that these funds will go into something else. No need, no vision was clearly not, if only last year, after the transaction, the government began to do a vision of what it would do with that money. On the other hand, even if a government representative ensures that it makes much more sense on the one hand to have an open, so-called deposit, and on the other hand to have an open credit creditor relationship, that it is still in the interests of a good master. No, it's not. According to our assessment, it would be reasonable and wise at this time to define as a source of funding the purchases obtained from the sale of the property sold by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This would not burden citizens and citizens for a few generations further through public debt or budget deficit. What's the point of having a purchase fed somewhere in a German bank? You don't know what's gonna happen with this purchase, the government doesn't have any vision, but it's gonna stay there. In the Slovenian National Party, this type of funding cannot be satisfied because it will lead to the damage of the Republic of Slovenia. The talk, not at this, not at the previous point, is not about building motorways, nor is it about how motorways will accelerate regional development or economic growth, as one speaker mentioned. That's not true. Gentlemen, today we are talking about the costs that will burden this investment, or through this investment, on citizens and citizens, on the costs that will reduce the national economy, which will reduce the development of the regions, because, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the funding provided for in both acts, that is, in the point that we have addressed a little earlier, and the point that we are considering now, will assume all the obligations. It is logical that it will take on commitments, but not as high and as negative as it predicts or as it proposes in such a form as it is. Because of the form of funding, we oppose this type of material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party's Parliamentary Group? They don't want to. Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At the previous point, we passed an agreement law on Dars hiring a loan of EUR 246 million for the construction of motorways. The sections with which they will be financed are known. Now at this point, of course, it is also an additional law, which is the issue of the guarantee that the State of Slovenia will marry for any failure to fulfil Dars' obligations to the lenders of the loan or to those bonds that Dars would issue. Of course, in the law, this "if" is present if Dars does not settle the liability of the leased loans and this is intended to provide the necessary guarantee. With this, the National Assembly and the Republic of Slovenia assumes a high obligation to convert this into approximately 58 billion Slovenian tolars. I'd like to point out if Dars doesn't have to do everything he can to make Dars right. Our parliamentary group advocates that the Ministry of Transport and Dars do its utmost to overcome the use of Slovenian motorways as far as possible. We cannot agree with the fact that some citizens, when they step onto the highway and pay to the end, pay consistently every mile of the highway, but not on many sections. We call for the necessary attention to be paid to this, so that when we accept this guarantee, Dars will be able to fulfil his obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u104	Of course, we will support the law in question. This is because when the national programme and programme are adopted, all information on what funding will be and what will have to be ensured to ensure that the programme continues. Of course, we cannot agree with certain claims in this Chamber, the highway that, for all costs, but nothing about this country will guarantee or provide financial resources - that is to say, hypocritically. And it is even more hypocritical that individual Members at various assemblies of civil initiatives and similarly protect against civil disobedience, but ten years ago they objected to the inclusion in the national programme of the department of Macelj-Maribor, if you and these Croats will no longer be building a path to Europe. Clearly, the situation has changed. Right, some of us thought at the time that it was necessary to put the entire building in the national programme, called the cross or whatever, along with that addition to Macelj-Maribor, as the cross was thought Karavanke-Bag and the western border-east border. Even so far we have changed the geographical direction or, I would say, the solar direction - that now the national programme states that the east of Murska Sobota and the west of Sežana and that the Coast is somewhere else and that the Karavankas are somewhere else, as they have always been, that is, the Coast in the East and the Karavanka in the West. But then in that euphoria it was possible to understand. Now is the time when we can rationally talk about these matters without any particular claims, which is more important, which is the first direction, because of political reasons, because I do not know what other reasons are in the first place, but especially as the traffic flows are moving, how transport security is, how it is with the possibility of funding individual sections. In this way, in the Group of Members, we expect that in September it will finally come to the tables of the rebalancing national programme, that all sections of the programme will be covered by an end, and that there will also be a way of financing within this rebalancing programme. As we regulate these sections, which are now in the programme, I expect that in the future, there will also be a greater part of the funding available through bonds through the participation of citizens in buying and thus contributing both to the construction of the motorway network and to their investment ambitions. After all, it is a multilateral effect. It is therefore absolutely reasonable to support this proposal of the law and to continue the construction of the highway programme. We regret this, but it is true that this law has actually raised so many doubts, as well as those of the predecessors, that we have, in the sense of urgency and at the last moment, practically changed all the articles, although detailed readers might find that it is a matter of precision, that it is a matter of eliminating certain uncertainties, that it is not a matter of deceiving, that it is not a matter of trying to involve anything in a law that is imprecise, unclear and, above all, not allowing the implementation of this programme. In this sense, I think that these shortcomings have been resolved, so we can support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are now moving on to the third reading of the draft law under the urgency procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading of amendments, so we will move on to a decision on the law. I inform you that the government or the legal and regulatory service has not notified that the law is inconsistent. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, once again, all together! Like the previous bill, this bill will not be supported by our parliamentary group. But not because of the way some try to distort our disagreement with such a proposal of law, but because of the way in and because of transparency, because of transparency. That is why we cannot support such proposals of the law. We have already said several times that it would be right to have, if it were not otherwise, one large sheet of paper, where we would have a review of the entire programme, all the projected expenditure, the realisation of expenditure, etc. And any change, as well as obligations, credit etc., and any additional thing that would happen, would be written in that large table or any document already, to make things transparent, so that at any time we could do the sum below, horizontally and vertically, and know where we are. I wonder if one member of the National Assembly has these documents so arranged! To make vertical and horizontal all things, by yearbooks etc. and thus, with regard to obligations, realisation and all these data, they had a transparent view. None of them have, I am sure, and despite this lack of transparency, we easily confirm with our left hand such great obligations as those ahead of us today. This is not true that we do not advocate the construction of a road program. But you have distorted the entire system by depositing funds that have been reserved for these purposes, instead of depositing and depositing them if it was not possible to use them at some point, but would deposit and elevate for those moments when they could be used, and then cut off when they were no longer needed. You've distorted the system, and what we have today is why we can't vote. There is no transparency, that is clear, so we cannot confirm these programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Juban. Here you go, then, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Maybe it's wrong that we don't have a direct transmission. It would probably be enough citizens to figure out what nonsense is being told in the document we have before us. This is the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations and so on. I will still support this document. In the past, I have often been critical of the dynamics of the construction of the highway system in the Republic of Slovenia and the story has gone its own way. For various reasons, what was said here today changed. Today, those who strongly advocate certain sections were skillfully opposed to the construction of the highway, through party Februaryes, mayors, and so on, especially in the pomurski work. Today, other stories are telling, and so I said that these are stupid things that tell them, and there are some professional explanations as to what it would be like. The guarantee is one of the series documents we accept to enable us to use these credits necessary for individual sections, once for each other, once for the other. This story will be like that as long as we build highways, I'm afraid, for a long time. Even a variety of stories up and down make perfect sense. I'll back you up. I hope that there will be a large enough majority to support this document, too, so that the Dars service will have financial coverage for the sections we are talking about. In the next phase, I will be the second in line again, when you will also have to cover with a guarantee section that will not be entirely yours, and so will run on. Everything else is a complete nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u110	I would like to say once again for the sake of clarity that I do not believe that any of the Members oppose the construction of the highway. It is a fact that we do not agree at least within the framework of the Group of Members with a source of funding. We are convinced that we have a second-hand source of funding that is more favourable for the Republic of Slovenia. And this is the basic criticism that we are referring to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has prepared a paper based on bonds and from which we can understand that the obligations will be borne by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And you accept it with such ease that it's absolutely incredible. On the other hand, we have the opportunity to obtain the financial resources we already have. This is the purchase of the New Ljubljana Bank. But, on the other hand, I am not surprised by this ease, because in this House we behave "sparly" only at times when the government comes with a balance in this bench. The fact is that today the first item was the proposal for a law on the ratification of the financial treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could not explain whether it was possible to reach the EUR 20 million free of charge or not because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had not negotiated this at all. Members of the National Assembly did not think it was worth rejecting the Treaty and trying to reach EUR 20 million through structural funds or any other form of European aid. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are going to have to start to realize that this country is in a public financial crisis and that it is not getting the means of the easiest business, but it is the hardest business, and that it must not take place in some kind of form. Unfortunately, in Slovenia, the pledge and issuance of bonds has become a formula, a formula that this government used years ago and is still using, and is taking us more and more into the public financial crisis. This is why we will not support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Allow me only to read in the order of order if I have just detected who wants to explain his voice below: Mr Drobnič, Dr Bernik, Mr Tukjat and Mr Mamić. Knock it off, I read you. Mr. Petty Officer, please. No, no, no. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State and escort. When we discussed this proposal yesterday on the Finance Committee, I said that he was already an old acquaintance of ours, I don't know how many times we've been through this. The first question that is always asked is why this is necessary, whether this shows an ever-increasing disorientation of the government in proposing laws. This proposal has two elements. One is the way to finance and the other is the purpose of this funding. As far as the method of funding is concerned, it has already been quite said, and I generally agree with this, but I will not talk about this. In itself, the method of funding, I am not talking about this proposal, is good, and I think that it could be used on a number of occasions on certain occasions to finance state affairs. However, as far as the purpose is concerned, it is a somewhat more questionable matter, for there is very little credibility on the part of the government as to how certain funds are used. Here too, the question is whether this purchase of these bonds will actually go for what we are told. There's a lot of impossibility in the whole thing. The whole issue of the programme, the road programme is questionable and we will therefore vote against this proposal. But let me just say it for the end, if you'll excuse me, this. As I mentioned on the boards, we never get a full review of what the whole tax is, where it came from and what it's going to pay with. The explanation says that he will be paid with tolls, but we have no idea how to deal with tolls now, where they go and how we have to imagine what will happen in 30 years. The government should have a projection, but that's not what we get. Thank you very much. That's why I'm not voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Motorways are an extremely important infrastructure in Slovenia. We all want the cross to be finished, made so that we don't choke in these locks. However, I believe that the need for net accounts is nevertheless justified with Members of Parliament, with those Members who wish to take decisions responsibly. To someone here in the National Assembly, this may seem foolish, but I think it is necessary to ask where the funds have gone so far; why the costs are once again higher than planned, but above all, what is the whole debt, because the guarantee means taking responsibility on the shoulders of taxpayers, nothing else; and when the liabilities will fall, when will we start paying off all these debts, what is the payout programme, how will we choke, how will the standard at the expense of our poor management fall and similar things. As I said, we believe that the entire programme is too small to be properly voted on. That is why I will certainly abstain from voting or press the quorum.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Mamić, I think he signed up, but he's not. Explanation of Mr Terčon's vote and as the last Mr Kavčič. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So that's what I'd say. According to the forecast, the construction of the highway system in Slovenia is really slower, expensive than the saffron and has a very mixed or most mixed and also a mixed system or toll collection systems. That was kind of a warning, and that's what he's holding. On the other hand, it is also true that the construction of motorways in Slovenia is a very important generator of economic development. Let us not forget that virtually all operational operations of construction operations on motorways are carried out by domestic companies, except for very rare exceptions, which have also been very widespread in the public eye. Of course, there are some alternative proposals on this issue - NLB's purchase, which I don't think is an alternative at all, because it totally doesn't matter what we take from it, and, of course, the possibility of concession. In doing so, I would like to point out that it is necessary to ask whether it is even possible to end up building motorways, given the stage in which we are. Although it would probably be true to build motorways faster and cheaper on the basis of the concession, it is also a question of whether to generate domestic economic development and who would be contractors, another end of the line, if there is any interest in concessions between potential concessionaires, given the fact that we are in the process of building motorways. I will support the guarantee or the law in particular for not slowing down the existing and anticipated dynamics of the construction of motorways, and also for the fact that with the guarantee we will build sections that will allow us to collect the toll work on an already mixed way of collecting tolls, but that non-acceptance could also have direct negative financial consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u117	Thank you very much. One last explanation for the vote, Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I'll support the marriage. If a person could ideally imagine how to build a road and how to obtain resources, a better solution could be found. However, at a practical and feasible level, I believe that this proposal represents a clear step forward in the quality of funding sources for the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia. Perhaps a more ideal solution would be for Dars to tender bonds without State guarantees. However, it is clear to those who are better aware of this problem that it is not possible to do so in the given circumstances; this is probably the next step in thinking in the nobility of the financial structure of the construction of Slovenian motorways. Looking at the use of resources, it's an extremely expensive project. I allowed myself to take a little look at the international analysis of the cost of miles of comparable motorways and similar buildings, bridges across Europe, and I came to the conclusion that in Slovenia motorways are built relatively rationally. Although, of course, very unloving surprises are present in the matter being auctioned from the balance to the balance. Maybe just for a little while in the end, that's all. When we consider the use of the purchase from the sale of the Ljubljana Bank, we should not, of course, ignore the monetary effect in the event that the entire purchase is directly used to reduce public debt. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the Secretary of State is quite logical in the circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We've finished our explanations of vote. Now we can go to the vote on the law. We're voting! There are 53 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 8. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation. We move on to the 19th POINT OF THE DAY LINE - TO THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE TRAINING LAW urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative of the government want a word in order to further explain the bill? Mag. Matjaž Knez, State Secretary, Ministry of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government has prepared a complement to the Rail Transport Act with two objectives. The first objective is to specify more precisely the terms and conditions of the acquisition of the loan hired by the Slovenian Railways in 2002 to maintain a public railway infrastructure of 8.25 billion. In the second part, we have set out more precisely the purpose of the use of the funds to be hired by the Railway Agency in 2003 at 12.5 billion. The law is based on the fact that we are talking about the implementation of public economic services, namely the maintenance of railway infrastructure and the operation of passenger transport, which, of course, is the responsibility of both countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u121	Thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the rapporteur want a word? Mr. Leopold Kremjar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Chairman. Since there's no Vice President, I can talk you out of it. Here. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has carried out its consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on rail transport and has adopted several amendments which have been adopted and form part of this proposal. I would like to draw attention to only one thing, namely the amendment to Article 3, which very clearly also sets out the additional purpose of spending resources under this law. This is to cover part of the costs of an economic public transport service. Such a proposal was adopted by the Committee and proposed to the State Assembly for its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Slovenian National Party, Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear government representative, distinguished Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group has been monitoring and following the proposal for a law supplementing the law on rail transport since its inception. The proposed solutions, as foreseen by the amendment of the law, should aim at deciding on the State's obligation to repay loans. With regard to the status of the Slovenian Railways and given the clearly expressed referendum decision on the future fate of the Slovenian Railways, in the Slovenian National Party Group, we express, after our assessment, legitimate doubts in the law despite the proposaler's assurance that the law has no financial implications, since the funds for its implementation are already provided in the 2003 budget. However, given the non-creditability of Slovenian public finances and almost every month's government rebalancing proposal, I can state with full responsibility that the government's assessment does not hold. In addition, it should be added that it would make sense before the adoption of the law to provide for the future or privatisation of the Slovenian Railways, whether in whole or in part. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not intend to provide financial support to those parts of the Slovenian Railways that will be privatised and will come into foreign hands. We expected from the government and are still expecting a presentation of the vision or privatisation of the Slovenian Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u125	Thank you. Bogomir Vnučec, the Young People's Party, gives up the word. Franz Lenko DeSUS, cancel. Branko Janc LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group will support the proposed law. The reasons and objectives of this law have already been given in the opening arguments. This law essentially solves the financial difficulties with respect to the loans taken or leased, which were intended for the maintenance of the state-owned railway infrastructure. As originally set out, they were the borrower of the Slovenian Railways, but they are not the owner of the railway infrastructure, and it is, of course, right that this part of the obligations of the Slovenian Railways are taken over by the State. In the second part, it is a matter of covering the costs of passenger transport, which is of course an activity, i.e. a public economic service, a service of public interest, but in order to cover the price difference, it must be understood that all passenger transport is not profitable, of course the country must cover them in some way. Unfortunately, all along the railway is that economic activity that has not been adequately covered in the state budget, and this has been happening for many years. In the way we are now solving it, by providing the loan guarantee, including the rail transport agency, this gap between the necessary funds and the envisaged funds in the state budget is somehow being mitigated. I also propose to the other Members, if, of course, they feel responsible for railway activities as a whole, then they should also support this law at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u127	Thank you. And Yuri Malovre, Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u128	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Also a nice greeting to the Secretary of State for Rail Transport. The Rail Transport Act itself has been discussed several times in the National Assembly and has also been supplemented several times in 1999, then in 2001, 2002. By that time, some had been alerted to inconsistencies or inadequacies. If we said a, we must also say b, in particular because the law itself does not create new budget obligations. The Railways Act, in its 34.a., provides that the State shall take over the repayment of public undertaking obligations of Slovenian Railways from loans leased under the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for public undertaking obligations of Slovenian Railways for loans leased to finance public railway infrastructure. The funds should be provided by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, according to the decree that has been drawn up. However, the dictatorship, which is written down, does not clearly provide that the Ministry of Finance on items provides funds, both for the principal’s repayment and also for the rental of the loan and other costs, as provided for by the Slovenian Railway Guarantee Act under the obligations of the Slovenian Railways on loans both for the financing of certain works, the construction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure and for the financing of the public service, the transport of passengers. As the additions to this Act address the shortcomings and will clearly determine the obligations of the State and the inter-ministerial obligations between the ministries, the Slovenian People's Party will support the law with amendments to the Infrastructure Committee. It is also my wish that the Slovenian Railways carry out the reorganisation effectively. This law will also help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u129	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the government or the legal service have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We will now vote in full on the bill. I call on the Members and Members to come to the Chamber. I'm asking if anyone wants to explain their voice. Mag. A trifle, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u130	It's a package of laws. The last two, so about Dars. What can we say about this law? So we can imagine what will follow from the guarantees we gave to Dars, which you gave to Dars. It will happen what actually happened for rail transport, that the guarantees will have to be realised and the state enters the place of marriage, because the railways are insolvent, insolvent and more. This is the result of the management of a transport policy in our country and public infrastructure. Of course, such a proposal cannot be anchored. In view of the fact that you have taken matters on your own and have decided on such strategic decisions, you will also bear responsibility for the consequences, as we should act differently in a reasonable manner. I myself will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u131	Thank you. Voice explanation, Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. In a way, of course, this continuation of the previous story is slightly different, since the State has already given guarantees for these obligations for these loans. And of course, the one who once gives the guarantee is then in the next phase also a payer of credit. This is quite clear, and we knew that as soon as this law came into the national assembly. On this occasion, however, I would like to draw attention to one illogicality. We all remember that some time ago we had a referendum on how to organize Slovenian railways. That's when all the citizens and citizens in their mailboxes received the Ministry's instructions on how to vote. We have been informed that if we do not vote against this, it will mean that the country will assume the debt or burden of 151 billion Slovenian tolars. How come I don't know this number personally, but the number is awfully high. Then there is a justification that we could build six new oncological institutes in Slovenia for this money, although of course we all know that at this point we only need one, that it means so much and so much monthly wages and so on that I do not list everything. I think that if you knew at that time that it was inevitable that the country would pay all these guarantees, which we also knew in the opposition, that then such a way of promoting against the referendum was actually one great deception of people before the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u133	Thank you. And a colleague of Yuri Malovre's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Unlike my predecessors, I will vote in favour of this law, given what I have already said, the law itself does not impose new obligations on the state budget, but it does limit the obligation between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so that the obligations are much clearer. This proposed law is essential only with regard to the taking up of debt from the current debtor and not to the future fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by the State. That is why I appeal to Members to support this law, because this law is fundamentally different from the previous two laws relating to the debt to Dars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u135	Thank you very much. These were explanations of vote. We are moving on to a full vote on the law. May I have your attention, please? We will vote on the law as a whole. Wait a minute. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We are moving on to the 19th D.C. - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON STATE GOVERNMENT, Urgent PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. May I have your attention, please? Would a government representative like a word for further explanation of the law? Please. Dr. Greg Virant, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Very briefly. On 19 December, the National Assembly appointed a Minister without a department responsible for regional development in charge of coordinating all those departments involved in regional development policies. The work area of regional development, which means direct incentives for regional development, remains in the Ministry of Economy. For reasons of rationality, the proposed amendment, in order to ensure that this work area is directly encouraged in the area of regional development, to move to government service and to include the powers of the Minister in order to work on the one hand through the coordination of sectoral policies in the area of regional development and, on the other hand, to have a field of direct incentives. The question or problem of compliance with the Constitution, Article 121 of the Constitution, of whether the administrative area can be taken over by a government service, has already been raised in the debate on the Committee and in the opinion of the Legal Service. We estimate that this solution is not unconstitutional, nor is it the first such solution. In the past, we have had government services that have led some kind of policy and proposed legislation for many years, such as a local self-government service. In addition, in this case, the tasks of the Minister without a focal point are still largely coordinated and the area of direct incentives is added. This is, of course, more rational than setting up a new ministry. It was a question of whether to set up a new ministry or to entrust this authority, this work area to the Minister without a licence. In view of the concept of reorganisation of the state administration in the direction of integration, integration of organs and organisational units, it would be unwise to establish a new ministry. However, we have further provided a written explanation for the concerns or concerns of the legislative and legal service, following a meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u137	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Comrade Private Cheligoy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. At its 35th emergency meeting on 22 May and its continuation today, on 29 May, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Administration submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 63rd regular meeting on 21 May, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. Representatives of the proposer, a representative of the legislative and legal service and some members of the committee who raised the following issues: what is the government's concept of changes in the direction of rationalisation of the state administration, or the status of government services in the future, or whether, depending on the large regional differences and conditions, it is more appropriate for us to consider that the area of coherent regional development would fall within the framework of the special ministry and not the government service, and what relationship between the government service and the public agency or who will decide on the complaints of this agency. Notwithstanding the explanations made by the representatives of the proposer, most members of the Committee agreed that the Government should re-examine the dilemma raised in the debate and, in particular, the comments of the legislative and legal services, and possibly include them in or take into account the proposed solutions, which led to the suspension of the meeting until the Government's opinion was reached. Following the adjourned meeting, within a week, the representative of the proposer said that the government had re-examined its concerns and insisted on the proposed solutions and also provided the Committee with a written additional explanation of the bill. Some members of the Committee reiterated and agreed to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the debate. On the contrary, the majority of members felt that, as a result of the adjustment to the acquis of the European Union, new situations were emerging, which must be taken into account and allowed to form flexible solutions in the field of public administration. Given that the proposed solutions to the draft law do not appear to be constitutionally disputed to the competent State Secretary, they supported the proposal. The Committee, as its own, also adopted the following amendment to Article 3 on the period of validity of the law, namely that in Article 3, the word "fifteen" should be replaced by the word "next", the day following the publication. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. By including the amendments in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of this report, which you have all received on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u139	Thank you, rapporteur. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Slovenian National Party, colleague Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration should set up a new independent ministry, not a government service. There's more reason. The first is an opinion on the proposal for a law submitted by the legislature, which states that compliance with Article 21 of the Constitution is only for the Ministry to carry out certain tasks, not for the government service. Well, it's just the first one. Second reason, first explanation. Second reason. We believe that the newly established ministry should also have the work done today by the Office for Economic Promotion and Foreign Investment in the content of its work. We believe that the Ministry of Regional and Local Development should also include all the work and tasks carried out today by the small economy acceleration centre. We believe that this ministry could and should also relieve the part covered by the internal ministry or, if you want, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, which is often in difficulty because of the wide content of its work. Last but not least, let me remind you of a few months ago of a proposal to amend the Zasavina law, where it was clearly defined that certain tasks from the Ministry of Environment and Space in the field of energy should be transferred - right now it should be a government service, and we say that we should move to the new Ministry of Regional and Local Self-Government. Even if we look at the government's explanation, which says this: The establishment, given that they were comparing what would be better: the establishment of the Ministry would be contrary to the concept of reorganisation of the state administration, which goes in the direction of bringing the authorities together. I'm sorry, but if we exclude either a new ministry or a government service from the Ministry of the Economy, I'm afraid no one can convince me that this is a merger. In any event, it is a matter of disaggregating certain parts and tasks. The second argument that the half-second year before the end of the government's mandate is an inappropriate time to change the structure and so on is, of course, at the heart of everything, because the substance of the change should be in the content, in the regulation of horizontal and vertical tasks, in the content of the work that would centralise it in the new ministry, thus covering such a volatile regional and local policy that changes and will change with Slovenia entering the European Union. But nobody thought about it. On the other hand, let me say that no one would have been able to say that we support, I don't know, the creation of a new ministry, new employment and so on. It is not a matter of new employment, as it is clearly stated that it is a matter of transferring the whole area, the work area of regional development, together with an appropriate number of staff, documentation, premises and equipment and so on. Once again, it is irrational and incomprehensible to act so quickly without anyone asking, but I must say that all the tasks that I have identified to belong to the new ministry, whose establishment we support in the Slovenian National Party, that these tasks have also been shared by the people who are already working under the Minister without a resource, also know that they themselves should expand their work area. [[...]] Therefore, the move is hasty, superficial and substantively incomplete and such measures cannot be supported in the Slovenian National Party. And there's one more thing. I think I will be complemented by my fellow Member from the Young Slovenia Party. Those who are more or less involved in the Committees for the Control of Public Finance Budgets know, in any case, what is the transparency of business if, for example, transparency is shown as transparency over the ministry or the transparency of certain services, for some we have never seen how and how they operate. I will conclude with the assessment that the content proposal should be better developed and that in our view the only competent organisational form is the Ministry. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u141	Thank you. The word is given by Marko Diaci, Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I am very skeptical of this first step, as Mrs Minister on the Committee said in a graphic way, that is to say, until these institutional changes are introduced, allowing new ministers without a regional development portfolio to engage in the development of the regions. Since the amendment of the law on promoting coherent regional development is also linked to this, it is also appropriate to think similarly in this law. In our SMS, we doubt that this proposed amendment will allow and help coordinate all policy areas by really following the same objective, this is development in individual regions, in short, that it will become a minister and her service, which is supposed to become an agency, some kind of link between regional development operators at the local level and the competent authorities. For this purpose, a government service for structural policy and regional development was set up by the coalition in January 2003, with the task of coordinating structural policies related to European development policy and the task of coordinating and preparing programmes and projects related to regional development. In my opinion, we would need at least a new ministry for these tasks, as a colleague mentioned earlier. The reference to rationalisation and the fact that this area is not regulated as a ministry is funny because resources would be the same as they are now. The ministry would certainly be a more transparent solution. Of course, there is a difference in credibility and competence. Last but not least, it should also be borne in mind the facts which the political option officially covers this area. And I think it's the fact that in this case it's a known connection between ice cream and consumption through the window glass. The situation in the area of regional development is more difficult than it seems. The newly established agency will not improve this in any way, and the situation will remain the same as now that the formal competence for regional development is still within the Ministry of Economy and the Treasury without a licence has been Minister through the government's provisional decisions. It is not possible to formalise the situation in such a way as is stated in the proposal. A radical change is needed. This proposal does not bring about this, in some ways it does even more confusion about the situation and transparency is not guaranteed. At least we knew about the current system of force if it wasn't good. Due to the proposal listed in the Young Slovenia Party, we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u143	Thank you. I give the floor to Vojk Celigo if he wants to, because he was a rapporteur before. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u144	In the DeSUS Group, we support the government's initiative, which, through the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, which is now on the agenda, specifically governs the work area of regional development and its organisation. The work area of regional development is transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the newly established service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development. It is logical that this reorganisation is also followed by logistical support in people, equipment and budget shares. We are convinced that the government proposal is good and that the service now run by the Minister without a licence will be a good enough framework within which the regional development agency, as a legal person, will realise the expectations in this area, from which we all expect important results. The DeSUS Group will therefore support this amendment of the State Administration Act and the amendment to the third point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u145	Thank you. The word is Lidija Majnik, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The LDS Group supports the government's decision not to take a decision in this case to establish a new ministry, since such a decision would be contrary to the concept of reorganisation of the state administration adopted by the National Assembly and would also be an irrational decision, as this would entail the urgent restructuring of the other ministries and thus also delay the implementation of policies. In view of the fact that the service will primarily carry out the coordination function of the regional development sector policies, in line with the revision of the rules on the provision of coherent regional development, direct incentives will be given by the public agency and thus carry out administrative tasks, we believe that the concerns of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, which has pointed out that, in accordance with Article 121 of the Constitution, the tasks of the administration are carried out by the ministries, in view of the above, are not on the ground. However, we are concerned about the tasks that individual ministries will have to perform, which, within their work cycle, are also carrying out regional development tasks, which are to be coordinated by the service and carried out by the public agency, as we have not received sufficient clarifications. We therefore call on the Government to ensure in due time that there will be no dispute over jurisdiction and non-compliance during the implementation phase of the regional incentives. Despite these concerns, we support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u147	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Slovenian People's Party, which will be presented by colleague Villa Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we first assess that the situation in the field of more coherent regional development is inappropriate, not to say bad. We would therefore expect first an analysis of the situation and then an appropriate action. We see above all two reasons for an unsatisfying stop. First, in a failing or inadequate law on more coherent regional development, then, of course, the inadequate implementation of this law or policies to follow or accelerate more coherent regional development. It is high time for such findings and appropriate measures, according to our judgment, to be taken at the time of the reconstruction of the government or since the appointment of the Minister for this area, but unfortunately this has not happened. It is true that the solution now offered by the government, out of two potentials, is the government's service for regional development and the ministries, that this is a less bad option than two bad options. In doing so, we would also like to draw attention to the inconsistencies or indispensability of the proposer, since at the beginning of this term, we have abolished, for example, the Minister without a licence for local government and the service that supported his operation, and now, after half the term of office, we are going in the opposite direction, without the right arguments, because I think that, with a few months of delay, we find that the fact that she was appointed Minister requires the reorganisation of the state administration is a relatively well-known finding. It is also difficult to expect that this change will bring appropriate quality in this problematic area. Our parliamentary group did not support the amendment at the first reading of the draft law on the Internal Policy Committee. The Government's complementary explanation, given the solution proposed, I must be honest with you, does not convince us that there are any new reasons that could substantially change the reasons for the decision "for" or "against". We still do not think that this solves the fundamental problem of coherent regional development. And since we have the next point, which is, of course, connected with this or in the package, there are not enough changes that are merely cosmetic, those essential, organisational, and not substantive, which we should provide at this point in this area with an appropriate correction of legislation. However, since we would not want to be responsible in the parliamentary group for making the situation worse than at this point in the area of coherent regional development, we will not oppose the amendment of the law on public administration or decide by their own discretion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u149	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the third consideration of the law under the urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a full decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Government or the Legal and Legislative Service has not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We will vote in full on the bill. I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice? Comrade Sušnik and then colleague Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u150	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, I would first of all like to point out that our Group of Members will not support the proposed amendment of the law. This is mainly because we are convinced that this solution does not bring about significant shifts in the area of coherent regional development. This is very sad and worrying when it comes to the fact that four years after the adoption of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, this law has practically not yet been brought to life. By no means can we agree on or mean what the term direct or indirect encouragement means. According to Article 19 of the Act, these development incentives are to be class 0.5, in the first year, up to 1% of the gross social product. The fact is that this necessary money, which would be allocated to areas with developmental problems, not in general, for the whole of Slovenia or for the central region, which has also been happening in the past years of the implementation of the law. The attitude of the Ministry of Economy or Government towards the issue of coherent regional development is clear to all of us. We are now of the opinion that by setting up the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's service for infrastructure policy and regional development, the importance of this area of action is further decreasing and we do not expect or expect any major changes in this area, although it would still be necessary, since all institutions assessing the situation in Slovenia, including externally, are surprised by the European Union's approach to adapting our legislation to the European Union from day to day by finding that the differences between central Slovenia and between rural areas are increasing. That is how this law, unfortunately, did not achieve its purpose. More on this subject could be said later in the proposal for amendments to the law on promoting coherent regional development, which shows that this only strengthens the centralist approach of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the regulation and management of regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u151	Thank you. Explanation of the vote by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I could agree with everything, as my colleague Trofenik said, except for the last part, that if you did not support it, there would be even greater problems in this area. The fact is, as explained by the Internal Policy Committee, that the reorganisation of the state administration should be geared towards reducing the number of budgetary users. In this case, of course, due to the justified specific weight of the area, however, a change in this area. The amendment of the Law on State Administration and the related amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development in this area do not bring any new jobs, bring not one metre of road or one metre of water. This is important for coherent regional development in these areas. However, it brings a clear ministerial salary and a number of such ones, which will be fuelled or grazed around by the title intended for coherent regional development. The fact is that after six months of being appointed to the newly appointed government, nothing was regulated in this area, not because they did not know it was necessary, but simply because they were working with themselves. They moved chairs and tables from one place to another. They needed it, and they also spent a lot of money. Secondly, if they had a serious purpose, then the government should have thought about it three years ago when it was established, but not now, which of course shows that this change is from pure political accounts of the coalition and absolutely nothing else. That's why I won't support it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u153	Thank you. Also a colleague of Max Lavrinz's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Chairman. It is illustrative to think that any law can change the way you think, so of course this one, too, will not. The issues that have been heard in the debate under this law, the fact that this law will not bring any, I don't know, meters, plumbing, etc., are, according to my discussion of the demagogic species, the worst, anti-advertisements for those who bring them into the world. The law is simply a formal basis for changing trends, and this is also the legislator's task. I would point to all the hypocrisy of all the opposition, I am talking about the unconstructive opposition and, unfortunately, even coalition friends from the SLS are among those who are at the time of the discussion. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u155	Comrade Lavrinz, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u156	I am saying this, this is why I will vote in favour of this law, why they did not support the amendment of Article 121, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. If you have read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service there are also formal questions when adopting this law. You see, this regularity of organizational forms, which is conditioned by this member of the Constitution, makes it impossible for us to respond to the needs of Europe and also to our internal needs, so I will say, hypocrisy is that when the opportunity comes, you "spout" when there was an opportunity to give our vote for it, but not to colleagues from the Party of Young Slovenia, not colleagues from the SLS, not colleagues from social democracy, New Slovenia, etc. Support it and, of course, then we take a little questionable solution sometimes, but I think it's better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u157	Comrade Lavrinc, you have a little misused explanation for the opposition's vote, which you are not allowed to do. Please don't let this happen in the future. We're done explaining the voice. Who else wants to explain their voice? I called earlier. I had three applications. Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I was going to abstain from voting on this bill, but after the last explanation of vote, my colleague Lavrinc convinced me that I would vote against it. In fact, mainly from this, it is my opinion that the wrong belief that real regional development in this country can be formed from above down and then institutional organisation. I think that this is basically a flawed concept, followed by a proposal to set up a government service for coherent regional development. Until this mistake is resolved in this country and we can create real regional development from below, we will actually swim in a floating state and do nothing, time will go on and even greater centralisation will go on in the future. Therefore, I believe that the last explanation convinced me that I would vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u159	Thank you. My friend Willy Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. I would not like to repeat mistakes or take rights in the sense of a violation of the rules of procedure, as some forerunners have done. First, I'll say I won't support the marriage. Although the amendment of the Law on State Administration, which would serve as a target to accelerate and ensure as quickly as possible and as closely as possible regional development, would be supported by both hands. I did not support even when we adopted a law on more coherent regional development, and unfortunately my warnings from four years ago were fully confirmed in the application or implementation of this law. Therefore, such cosmetic corrections, which are in function, are sorry, policies in a negative sense, but not in the function of the objective to achieve as much development as possible in our country, are unacceptable. If someone agrees with the opinion or assessment of the situation by accident with someone who usually disagrees or otherwise, I mean, they cannot be the object of such profanities as hypocrisy and the like. The situation in the field of more coherent regional development is alarming. I say this with all my responsibility, because I have to deal with it and I've been doing it for a long time. I would expect a radical change, and I am not asking you to comfort me that because of the EU's constitution, we need a more coherent regional development because of us, because of life in this country, and there cannot be a constitution if we are able to find the right solutions, obstacles or dictates to the EU. These are fairy tales for someone else. Unfortunately, this is not why I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u161	Thank you. And my friend Branko Kelemin. Then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I protest, and it would be correct, Mr Vice-President, to give a warning to Mr Lavrinac in view of such accusations and abusive words. That would be the least you could do, and you didn't do it. I'm not gonna use those words myself. I'm gonna use them anyway. I don't think this proposal, whatever it is, is good. I'm not going to vote against it personally, but I'm not going to vote for it, that's for sure. Besides, I don't know what the motive was for all of this and where they were gathering for a solution like this today is now proposed. I don't know why DeSUS agreed that these things are being handled because they weren't meant to be. Where you sold yourself, what you did, I don't know how you'll apologize to Slovenian voters or citizens, but whatever you want. The fact is, in fact, there have been too many words spoken, too much money spent, and various efforts at different levels have been made and there are no results. The Minister replied, for example, when it was still in her jurisdiction, to the economy, that it would come to life in 2003. I don't know where these results are gonna show up. Some say that next year, when we join the European Community, this will be the case next year. You tricked us, for the first time, for demographic resources, that's definitely it. At least that's where we got something, an individual congregation, and now there's no money, and this marriage hasn't come to life. And the fact that you have invented a whole series of new expressions that are not even in any legislation, such as direct and direct incentives and so on, is just deception and nothing else. Otherwise, I would not like, because I very much want progress in this area, to be the one to block it. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u163	Thank you. And my colleague Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to explain my voice. I will not support this change for the reason I've already said. I advocate that this should be the ministry, which should also carry out the economic promotion of the small economy, foreign investment and, of course, the local area. As I estimate that the urgency and the superficiality of such a form and content is too great, I cannot support such a way. I also prove my claim by proving that working with the Minister without a portfolio is very effective, very pleasant and very fast, which is of course not applicable to the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, certain parts to relieve the Ministry of Economy would actually achieve a very effective new ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u165	Thank you. The last explanation for the voice of Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Nor will I support this change or the introduction of this service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development, because this constant change of writing tables over certain parts of the government serves nothing. Until the contents change until the contents are replaced by some content under this board, by a note. If I go after the memory of the 10 years of Drnovsk's governments, the changes, transfers from the Ministry to the Ministry have always been made due to the confusion that the public was being misled and that, later, even in those departments, there have been many serious incidents of abuse. If I go back to history. When the Ministry of the Interior took over, I think that Minister Bizjak, who was not exactly from the right party at the time, was transferred by the security agency, VIS at the time, directly under the Prime Minister. When he took over the foreign ministry, Mr Peterle, the economic relations that had been in the foreign ministry until then were transferred to the Ministry of the Economy, because Mr Peterle would have had an insight into certain areas reserved for precisely the people who were resettled. When the formation of the last Drnovsko government was established by the Ministry of Information Society of the then Transport Ministry, we are still wondering today when Ericson's affair had any deeper meaning, perhaps the Ministry had to be under the right department again. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u167	Mr. Jerovšek, time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u168	And I'm afraid, but with this, the secretaries of state who explain it here, I'm not burdening anything that they're back again. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u169	Lock it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u170	And that's why I won't support it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. May I have your attention, please? We will vote in full on the law. We're voting! There are 56 of us present. The vote was 34 to 13. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 13.]] The law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. I move on to the 19th item of the agenda, which is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Promoting Comprehensive Regional Development - an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mag. Igor Strmšnik, Deputy Director at the Government Development Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u172	Your Honor! Allow me a few introductory words to clarify the substantive reasons that led us to propose a solution to today's discussion. We are implementing the law adopted by the law on promoting coherent regional development, we are not introducing any new solutions and we are not doing anything that is not in the law. Article 19 of the Act states: "Incentives relevant to the coherent regional development of Slovenia shall be developed through coordinated channelling of funds, budget allocations from ministries, which shall also include funds from international financial assistance and shall be coordinated towards regional development programmes." So, funds from different ministries in regional development programmes. We have made sure that these regional development programmes exist today in all statistical regions, except in sub-division. And he'll be ready in Podravska this year. We have made sure that the institutions envisaged by law have been established, and we have taken care of this since 2003, Minister Petrinova also meant that direct regional development incentives are already being allocated in a programme way. The programming method for the allocation of incentives means that the region, in line with its regional development programme, defines its development priorities, projects and these projects, proposes to the Government to co-finance. It is therefore up to the Programme Committee of the Region to decide where these incentives are specifically directed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is coordinating with the Programme Committee and is ultimately responsible for this decision because we do not yet have the provinces. Why government service? Because now we have an extremely important task ahead of us. This is what the law says, coordination of various ministries' funds on regional development priorities. This is where coordination is at the forefront. This is why the government coalition has decided to appoint a special minister for this area, because coordination is a difficult task and therefore so much talk about these so-called indirect regional development incentives. These are many, and they are less direct, but the indirect regional incentives are considerable, especially if we take the funds of international donations into this framework, which is the European Union, which will also begin to come to us in 2004. The solution we are proposing is clearly in the direction of regional policy reform, which is already foreseen in the existing law. We will propose amendments to this law, the government assumes that this package is coming to Parliament in the third trimester, this autumn, and there will be a possible in-depth debate on the various aspects that have been opened up in this amendment, which is being ruled by some announcement of future changes in autumn. Dear Members! I suggest you support the Government's efforts, which are going in the right direction. We do not argue that everything in the law is well, but that it would be necessary to change things after four years in fact so that the law can be better implemented. And that's what we intend to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u173	Thank you for the opening statement. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Vice-President of the Committee, Comrade Blaž Kavčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u174	Dear Presidents, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 15th urgent meeting, on 27 May, the Committee of the National Economic Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. We were also informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. We have paid particular attention in particular to the question of the competence of the government service in relation to its status. Furthermore, the comments that the ratio of the tasks of assigning rural development incentives, which, inter alia, the public agency for regional development, to the tasks of the already established Regional Development Fund and the preservation of the population of the Slovenian countryside, should be further presented. In connection with the name of the new regional development agency, we also agreed with the warning that, in accordance with Article 10 of the Law on Public Agencies, the name of the Agency should already contain the term 'public agency'. We have been informed that the Government is currently preparing a thorough report on the implementation of the law on promoting coherent regional development, which will also be forwarded to the National Assembly at the end of June. At the same time, they are preparing the ideas for a more comprehensive amendment to this law, which would be further elaborated in the context of the debate on this report. Members of the Committee expressed a number of concerns regarding the proposal for a law, but in the opinion of some members of the Committee, the proposed law should be adopted. Although it may not be an optimal solution in all respects, it is necessary because of the prevailing situation following the introduction of the structural policy and regional development service of the Government of Slovenia, when the regional policy area remained within the Ministry of Economy, and all employees working in the field came to the government service. In the context of the debate, a proposal was also put forward and adopted to make it appropriate, in view of the many meaningful comments and proposals, to propose to the government to study them in preparing an ad hoc amendment to the law on promoting coherent regional development. On the basis of Article 131(8) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee adopted, in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments submitted in the report and concluded that the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Economics of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a more comprehensive amendment to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development and to examine all comments and proposals made at the meeting of the Committee and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u175	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, Slovenian National Party, colleague of Sašo Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u176	Your Honors are here! In his opening arguments, the government representative, who represented the government's position and the presentation of the law on the matter, said or highlighted four elements. First time. Institutions which are provided for in the various laws governing matter are established. [[...]] In the Slovenian National Party, we add that there is no impact in these institutions. The government representative further notes that the country's incentives are, in the Slovenian National Party, we say that the impact of these incentives is not. The government representative further notes that inter-ministerial coordination takes place, that everything is coordinated, they do what they can, in the Slovenian National Party we say there is no effect. For confirmation, there is also no consistent development in our country. It is not because of politics and political will in this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. After 12 years, the government has determined the existence of a centralist regime. After 12 years, it comes simultaneously with a law that says in explanation and in the introductory principles, "we will try to take new steps to promote regional development." By simply trying to change one of the organisational forms in which different services will be met, through which they will try to introduce consistent regional development into Slovenia, or in other words, the aim of which, in addition to the central region, for example, the Ljubljana region, at least equally develop other regions in our country. Of course, it is absurd to expect that this marriage, if we can call it marriage, will come true. The fact is that all the legal grounds for the introduction of decentralisation in our society have been for several years, but unfortunately, it is not this political will because you all seek to have strictly all the institutions in the municipality of Ljubljana or around this city municipality, so that the financial resources are focused primarily on the selective development of individual regions. We also assess in the Slovenian National Party, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is serious about the issue of coherent regional development, two points or two chapters should be touched. First. In any way, subsidisation or financing by the Brussels funds. The fact is, these days, few among the congregations, 192 or 194 congregations, are so - called cohesion funds. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not play the programme linker, an instructor who would encourage local communities to apply. Even more. According to our assessment and our experience with the sharing of powers, on the one hand, the Ministry of European Affairs, on the other hand, the Ministry of Environment and Space, will deliberately introduce views that do not hold up in reality. We witnessed this in the city congregation of Maribor. According to our assessment, the proposal to extend powers and new tasks should include under point 1 assistance to local communities or local community assemblies, as regards applications to these so-called Structural Funds. Not that the municipalities are left to themselves and that in the end Slovenia will even fail, despite the assurance of the European Minister, a net payer in the Brussels budget, because, unfortunately, Slovenia will not be able to make use of all the funds available, but because of the failures and failures of the applications, because of ignorance and because the government does not want to intervene, Slovenia will be a net payer. On the other hand, it is also worth mentioning, in the context of this Act, that a serious approach to coherent regional development would make sense and would need to consider setting up its own competent ministry. Explanation of the reasons given by colleague Bogdan Barovic at the time of consideration of the previous law. In the National Party, we are convinced that through the status form of the institution, certain powers could be acquired and that the establishment or transfer of individual tasks to or whatever you call them, what you want to introduce by this law, is essentially a disguise of responsibility for the further centralist development of our country. True, we have tried many times in this National Assembly - I stress the word we have tried - to talk about coherent regional development. I think the last time was just before the local elections where you're Members of Parliament. [[End warning sign]] Before the law was drafted, they voted that you did not want to talk about coherent regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u177	Please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u178	You were government MPs. Today you will adopt a law that will have no effect, because the law is poorly prepared according to our assessment. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the law, we will not support it, but we will not vote against it, but we will abstain. However, this law will not, unfortunately, have any effect, we have missed another opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u179	Thank you. Young Slovenia Party - cancels. LDS mission club, Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u180	Members of the LDS will support the bill, but this positive position is accompanied by some expectations. Above all, we are expecting a more comprehensive amendment to the law, which will mainly bring the following. First time. It must more effectively address possible shortcomings or address comments and non-conclusions regarding the allocation of development incentives. It must ensure greater transparency over the allocation of funds by municipalities, administrative units and regions, including agriculture, road infrastructure and other state resources [[We don't have this review yet.]] . The novelty should also ensure an improvement in the rationality of the system, which means a concrete relationship between the cost of operation of all institutions and programmes and the extent of the funds actually received by the beneficiaries. These are therefore the expectations of LDS Members for the novelty of this law. And we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Janko Weber, the United List of Social Democrats, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the promotion of coherent regional development states in its introduction that more effective organisational forms should be introduced in the area of regional development. Of course, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we agree with this assessment of the proposer, but we see not only the reasons for this in the organisation of the government and its services, but also in the growing developmental differences between the regions. The very conclusion that the status of a Minister without a portfolio, namely that this status is truly inaccurate, is correct, but the solutions proposed are not completely cleared, so we believe that more than this proposal needs to be taken and that there is an even greater emphasis on coherent regional development in the organisation of the government. This could, or may be, partly bring these problems closer to those that are truly worrying, as there are growing differences in development between regions. Very worrying are the data indicating the emptiness of rural areas, the unfavourable age structure and the inability to maintain development in companies and thus the ability to employ highly educated people who want to stay in their homes or in smaller towns. These problems are later accompanied by decisions to abolish vocational education programmes in these areas of developmental weakness. This is an additional blow to all those families who have to provide, of course, a lot more resources to enable children from these areas to be properly trained, but of course this means an outflow of personnel from this area. The government's decision to set up statistical regions for statistical research was interesting in 2000. We are interesting because it is not a matter of self-research, but we note that today 12 statistical regions are being used for the technical implementation of the activities laid down by the law on the promotion of coherent regional development. It's only partially acceptable. It is acceptable to the point where development programmes are being prepared. To a large extent, this acceptability fades when the interest arises after the establishment of the centre of the region and the development problems are subordinated to administrative appetites. Another problem in statistical regions is the financing of development programmes within statistical regions and the financing of regional development agencies. The municipalities with specific development problems must, of course, prepare appropriate programmes and finance a certain percentage, given the value of this development programme, also the regional development agency. This means that municipalities with development problems also finance this institution, which, in fact, is still failing in terms of its financial capacity. The distribution of funds within statistical regions is also usually problematic, as developmental problems in statistical regions are increasing with distance from the highway cross and near the state border. Especially the southern borders where the new Schengen border will be established in a short time. We note that there are not enough measures here to keep this border inhabited. The extreme situation is mainly in the West Valley area, where the total vacation of settlements is threatened. Therefore, we expect the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Structural Policy and Regional Development to effectively coordinate the resources of the Government and to prepare a methodology for the preparation and evaluation of the effects of the regional development programme, taking into account the above-mentioned facts. The overly attached regional programmes to statistical regions alone will be insufficiently effective. We must take into account that areas outside the motorway cross will be in a very subordinate position and an analysis of coherent regional development will need to be carried out of the situation in these areas. This will give us more real information on which areas are facing specific development problems. Taking all of these into account, we will refer to the coherent regional development law that we are considering today, together with the additions proposed on the committees, because we believe that this is one step towards more coherent regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u183	Thank you. And also the Slovenian People's Party's Group, colleague Villa Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u184	The proposed amendment to the law on more coherent regional development covers only those most urgent changes that are linked or are the result of the law already adopted in the previous paragraph. That is why all the arguments that I have said for and against before are valid, and there is no point in repeating them again because they are a package of two laws requiring internal coherence. Expectations are, of course, the same or were directed to the position of the delegation towards the previous point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a second reading to discuss individual amendments to the amended bill. There is no special review of the amendments. However, you received two pages on the bench, first the proposal for two amendments to Article 2 and then the amendment to Article 2. Both proposals are from the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of Slovenia. I am opening the debate on the amendments to Article 2. Who wants a word? Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u186	I would like to make a point on behalf of the amendment's proposal. I would like to begin with the amendment proposing the deletion of Article 2 by deleting a provision to be entered in Article 16a in the first paragraph. We propose to delete the new provision. I quote: "... there are no complaints against the decision of the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in granting development incentives.".. For us it is totally unacceptable that the conclusion of the Agency for Regional Development would be callous, in particular, for the allocation of development incentives. This only strengthens the centralistic view of the creation of regional policy and it is totally unacceptable for me to adopt such a practice, which is already being enforced by the Agency for Regional Development in communicating with so-called programme councils today in one way or another. Now let me know nicely. We are members of the regional development agencies in the 12 statistical regions, through the programming boards we adopt some programmes when we do not come together, the Slovenian Regional Development Agency will adopt a decision on the allocation of incentives, to which neither the Programme Council, which is supposed to play a key role in the creation of regional policy, will have no appeal. Look. It is the distribution of huge money, not least 1% of the gross social product in accordance with Article 19 of the Law, and not to forget more than €300 million in structural resources. And obviously, someone here doesn't like that this money should no longer be divided by political lines, by faces, if you want, and they want a stable distribution of money by political line, through the face of this provision in the article so that no one should complain about the decision of the agency of the Republic of Slovenia in granting incentives. I would like to stress this on purpose because I previously listened attentively to the Secretary of State, who said that agencies do not assign incentives, but only coordinate. The decision you are proposing to introduce explicitly discusses the conclusions in giving rise to the development of incentives. The second amendment goes also simply in the context of what the last proposer, Mr Weber, said that already poor municipalities from areas that are most developmentally problematic are now forced to pool money also to finance those carriers of regional policy - in this case regional development agencies. We propose to introduce this provision in which the actual will of the ruling coalition in this national assembly is tested, whether it is prepared to contribute to more coherent regional development. I call on all Members, and in particular I stress that it is similar in Article 3 of this Act, which speaks - but we were unable to do so because it was not open - but which says that it is not possible to appeal against the decision of the Republic of Slovenia's public fund for regional development and the preservation of the settlement of the Slovenian countryside in the award of the development of incentives. I think that the attempt to legislate the two has determined that, even at the conclusion of the Regional Development Agency or at the conclusion of the Regional Development Fund, it is not possible to complain, the kind of attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a candidate or of this National Assembly - if this is accepted - towards centralist leadership in the country in general, a kind of attitude towards such a declared regional policy, which we have already heard about today, in what situation or in what state it is. I think that thus amended Articles 16 and 18 of the Harmonised Regional Development Act will not contribute in any way to the better implementation of the coherent regional development law; it will not contribute in any way to reducing the differences between the Slovenian regions; it will contribute to further centralisation. And I think we will be surprised once again to see that the largest share of regional development incentives goes to the most developed central Slovenian region, as we have seen in this National Assembly when we heard the latest report on the use of funds for coherent regional development. That, I think, is the essence that the proposer is following. Once again, the proposal makes it clear that it is a matter of fear that any of these regions would have any significant impact on the use of direct regional incentives and, above all, on the use of European structural resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u187	Thank you. He's got Branko Kelemin's word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. With great interest, I am somehow embarking on this debate, or I am following all these changes in this area with great interest. In fact, even the environment from which I come, my congregation of Sevnica is essentially collapsing, if I say so, and would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u189	Comrade Kelemin, just to remind you - this is Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u190	Article 2 and the amendment, yes. In short, the changes proposed by this Article are a major contribution to what I wanted to say, that we will also improve some things and that things will be resolved differently, as they have been so far, where we find that almost nothing has been done in this area. In fact, last year I proposed that a debate be held on more coherent regional development, on the implementation of the law, but I failed. Mr Peče rightly noted that the coalition rejected this proposal; of course, today it speaks differently; they want transparency at least now by the LDS, although I think it is populism, that it is also ash pouring. But well, we're saving what can be saved from this sinking ship. And I think that the amendments we have now proposed are going in the direction of this solution, that what Mr Weber has also been talking about, we are trying to improve somehow. However, I expect, even on the basis of what the Secretary of State has said, that in the near future there will be some fundamental reform of this legislation, in view of the Minister's announcement, if I say so, who has long promised to make a completely new law in this area, because she has found that the existing one is bad or that I am not saying it sucks. However, we see that there are some partial solutions, and precisely the proposal of our amendments, I think it would improve at least a little bit the existing text. And I firmly believe that what you said earlier, my fellow Members, you will now be pleased to support, and that we will at least make a minimal contribution to improving the proposal of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u191	Thank you. Because no one wants more Willie Trophynik. [[...]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I would like to join most of the concerns expressed by my colleague Sušnik in his explanation for the amendment to Article 2. However, I fear that the solution proposed is inadequate. I think it would be an appropriate solution to define an instance in the law. This is the second instance that solves the complaint in all directions. Unfortunately, however, since the matter is not open, this cannot be done properly. However, it is unacceptable from the practice so far that no complaints about decisions are possible. There is no time to comment here and to prove these claims with concrete examples. Allow a few more words about another amendment that indirectly strikes at the underlying problem or the fundamental weakness of the existing law on coherent regional development; this is what happened to us when we adopted it in the second reading with the amendment. Let me explain. The original idea of the proposer was that local communities in the statistical region were obliged to establish a local regional development agency. Later, a solution was reached to empower existing agencies for these tasks. One way or another. This is a fundamental weakness, because instead of looking for solutions for the best possible solution and for the fastest possible development, there has been a struggle for business, according to domestically stated how the existing agencies, which have already been set up in one way or another, will have provided work under one or another political patronate. And not just that. Comrade Sušnik proposes that the cost of this preparation be borne by the state budget. I am drawing attention to the many dangers I will now point out in the specific case of the sub-regional region when the State, through the agency, has called for the co-financing of the preparation of the regional programme, past the 32nd municipalities in the region, which are obliged to co-finance this programme, agree that the value of this programme is 140 million tolars. And instead of subsidising the municipalities that are obliged to do so, it concluded a direct bilateral contract, on the one hand with a network of agencies and on the other hand a state, and placed the municipalities before the enforcement of the fact. What's $140 million? That's about 25,000 hours of research. All or most of the work, however, required that the targeted network organisation of three agencies that could not agree and that it was also politically impossible to agree on who would be the host, to prepare the congregations. And if we go in the same direction that these costs will be paid untransparently from the state budget, then this situation will be the same as it is in the approximately sub-regional region. I am pleased that it has been recognised earlier by the Government that there is no or that it seems that this is a 'postbox with 1,300 projects' - under the terms of reference - which is a direct consequence of inadequate law and inadequate implementation, and this change will not be any better, although the explanations given by them - in particular by colleague Sušnik, as well as formerly by colleague Weber - could be fully supported, but the instrument is not in such a way as to prevent this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u193	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, do you want to discuss it if I have it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u194	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Practically nothing has been done in the area of promoting coherent regional development since the adoption of the law itself. And the proposed amendment to the law shows us or leads us to the realization that the government, the current government, does not intend to do anything in this area in the future. It is, however, intensive, productive in the production of fog, in the production of deception to the public. And this is where the current law goes in my opinion. In view of the fact that Articles 2 and 3 state that there is no appeal against the conclusions of the Regional Development Agency for the continuation of the development incentives; this shows us a spirit without the appeal given by the current authorities. In fact, it reports: our decisions are callous. In fact, I am not surprised, for they have revealed such purposes even in explanation. See, under point 5, the representation of regulation in other legal systems of EU Member States is just this sentence: "There is no basis for this comparative representation. Arrangements in other countries are very different." I believe that it is very different and that the government cannot compare analyses from other countries with one sentence. But what does that mean? Where are we going? We are going to Europe, we are talking about regional incentives and we are doing some completely different patterns that are not comparable to other countries. That's Cardelian politics. I have to say again, this policy has been a master of making constant changes, promising on the basis of those changes: now it will be significantly better. And every two years, three years there were some big changes. So this option is essentially, if we look at metaphorically or comparatively historically, some version of the united labour law that will not have any good consequences. And once again, the absolute spirit of the present power is beating. I'd kind of take it if it were at least the spirit of enlightened absolutism. It's not. From this comes something - Slovenians know these rulers - the spirit, I don't know, Bach's absolutism. And in fact, you come with these patterns and because of these changes I do not support and I think we will vote on what we propose in our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u195	Thank you. Once again, I ask you to speak about Article 2 and the amendments to Article 2. My friend Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u196	Thank you very much. To comply strictly with your instructions, I will immediately say that we will support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party to Article 2. It is totally unacceptable that no complaint can be made against the decision of the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we have a lot of experience in this area. I will say this: four years ago we warned what the law on coherent regional development really means, that this is a bad solution, that this is a bad model, that it actually brings about the distribution of those funds that were actually directly earmarked for investments four years ago after the law on demographically threatened areas. Today it is different, these resources are no longer available, and more of them are budgeted each year - which, of course, you propose and accept, the ruling coalition - less, and of course these agencies are fed from these resources. The result of these agencies is what it is. Some, I will say, can even be quality and good and this is to say hello, but some, of course, are like people. In all things it is important, it is society, it is a customer, it is any other organization, as people in this organization are. And in some agencies, of course, all they care about is that they also have the lowest administrative work paid for an hour there from two to three grand, which is, of course, unacceptable. Therefore, such articles as this second article are, of course, unacceptable, because the conclusions simply make it clear that funds will also be used for completely different purposes. Secondly, since the assessment of the situation states that more effective organisational forms should be introduced in the area of regional development in promoting regional development, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also reports by noting that all those who have been discussing either hynasically or demogosically, or I do not know what the last six or seven years in this area, are not true. That means we've been really alerted to problems. Today, even the government admits that. However, because of this, if she has admitted it, she has not done anything in the direction yet, although she has announced the second year in this National Assembly, she announces in any adoption of the budget the amendment of the law on coherent regional development. That there will be no financial consequences of the law - unfortunately, no, because it does not bring about quality changes in this area and, of course, not what is already defined in the law. From this title, it is even more unacceptable that the conclusion of the Agency could be completed and could not be appealed to. However, in order to show regulation in other legal systems of the Member States of the European Union, we have already said and stated that every law is, in fact, necessary and necessary - once again, not in this law. Why has the government not helped itself with at least an opinion or at least with the preparation of this material from our research sector, from the research sector of the National Assembly? You could see that, for example, Finland has written that the aim of the law is to promote the fair development of individual parts of the country. When will we wait for this government to write that the law on coherent regional development is the one that will promote the equitable development of individual parts of the country? If this had happened, then we would have said: at least a ministry such as regional development would have sent to those areas where this is most necessary; where the quality of life is the worst - that is, either to Styria or to the Prekmur region. That of course they have others - from Sweden, France and so on - written that they are consistent regional developments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u197	Comrade Pukšič, amendment to Article 2!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u198	Yeah, I'm talking about Article 2. I will read again the second paragraph, which I am against, if you wanted to, if you have not read it yourself or heard from none: 'There is a new sentence in the first paragraph, which reads: 'There is no complaint against the decision of the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia in granting development incentives.' That's unacceptable! There is no such article or such paragraph in all the laws which I speak of which are made in other countries. Therefore, it is important and necessary that if the government itself did not have the time and the need to write a comparison - or even write that it is not necessary - it is necessary to say this in some place. And if we allow it, Mr Vice-President, then we want to say it to the government in this place. We're not talking about ourselves, we're talking about the areas we come from. I'm certainly one of those who doesn't just come from the urban work where everything is piled up and running over the edges, but from the area where quality is the worst. And for these areas, the government even wrote in its proposal that something would have to be done, but of course it did not write down what, because it obviously does not have it because it does not want to deal with it seriously. And that's the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u199	Thank you. Now I have two more discussers written down, Branko Kelemina and then Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I would just like to explain something further to Article 2 or to supplement the amendment to Article 2. It is true that the motion for this amendment is a Social Democratic Party, but I do not think anyone will blame me if I say that I am the author of this proposal myself. This is because, in fact, when we adopted this law, because I have been very careful to note the inefficiency and inadequacy of this law, as Mr Trofenik also said today, that it is an inappropriate solution in the basic law - and I am surprised that today, as a representative of the People's Party, we are sprinkled with ashes because they proposed this bill from their department, if I am not mistaken, and I do not know why they adopted it. I don't know why they took him with such solutions if they were inappropriate, because then you knew they were. I am aware that this proposal made by our Group of Members is not appropriate - it is not appropriate in terms of today's situation and of this change or that it is not most appropriate. However, it might force someone to, at least if we accept it as we have suggested, try to make this matter definitive and clear. Look! We now have a whole range of institutions dealing with quasi-development, etc. in the area of regional policy, we have also established as some state level based on law; however, all of these institutions are other institutions, as Mr Trofenik said, that are facilitating work, fighting each other and not knowing who would actually be the carrier, etc. However, if we do this once - and this is one of the basic proposals of this amendment - that regional structural policy institutions should be only one, namely the regional development agency and the regional development agencies. And no one else! All those PCMGs and RCs that municipalities and the public fund have, and I don't know what else to do, all of this needs to be done - and also from the administrative units of one economic service, and from the local communities of the economic service, but I don't know what else from this area - to merge into just one line. At that time, we will have an effective regional development system because no one will be able to reach any programme through the regional development agency. That's all. If we don't do this, it's a waste of time, my respects, it's a waste of effort. That's too bad, really! I hope you will understand that this is absolutely necessary. This is the only thing that is necessary, it says, is just one line - well, now that you have organised a job with the government, then we have the world by law and then there is the agency for regional development and regional development. This is all the structure we need in this segment and nothing else. Once you have supported this, dear colleagues, once we have achieved it - this must, of course, be achieved by a new law, with a vision of a new law. If we don't, if we allow this anarchy that is now in this area - regional development: good luck, like everything else! We will see what joy there will be and what support this law will have now or a proposal. I hope, if not today, at least in the following year, at least this autumn, we will be able to resolve these things for next year with a new budget, etc. Let's sort these things out the way we imagined them a few years ago. And so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u201	We're away from the amendment again! Thank you very much. Mr. Willi Trophynik has a replica of this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u202	However, I hate to say this, but I must warn my colleague Kelemin that I do not feel any need to pour ashes on me, because four years ago I was lonely when I objected to the solutions presented both in the parliamentary group and in the coalition, and I am explaining this four years ago that it is bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u203	Thank you. I give the floor to Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. In listening to all this debate and to both amendments on a proposal for a law that certainly hides the weight and embarrassment of building a structure that will, on the one hand, find the institutions responsible for coherent regional development and, on the other hand, train us at national level a service that will run as successfully and actively as possible and will, of course, obtain funds from the European Union funds, structural, cohesion funds. When we ask ourselves what we have at our disposal today as carriers of these actions - we have a local community at our disposal. There are many, heterogeneous, differences in abilities and responses to such problems; and, on the other hand, the state, the ministry, which, in fact, by definition of the Constitution - each in its own field - should also be responsible for ensuring coherent regional development. As a result, in the 13 years we have a country of our own, somewhere in 1999 we have come to realize that we are missing something in the middle. We lack a degree that is more than the congregation, and it is not a country. Therefore, a law on the promotion of coherent regional development was adopted at that time, and the content of which, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia announced and reasoned on the constitutional amendment, it assesses: since we do not have a province, in 1999 the law on the promotion of coherent regional development laid down the entire organisational financial instrument through which the promotion of this development should be pursued, i.e. within the 12th statistical regions. The statistical regions were used as a geographical framework for the technical implementation of that activity. Such a solution is painful in the fact that this action has only a territorial framework, not its own operators, which means that it must be implemented from the Republic and from the municipalities. This, on the one hand, causes difficulties in negotiating; on the one hand, between the municipalities themselves with different interests and between the municipalities and the country, which, of course, constitutes a major obstacle to the implementation of this law. All mayors in charge of the action, known as those responsible for the development of their own local self-government, also for coherent regional development, see clearly that they must provide two types of funding under their municipal budget: both for the preparation of regional development programmes and, on the other hand, for the financing of the regional development agency. Therefore, the amendment tabled by the applicant under 2 requires, of course, a clear explanation by the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that this is not necessary. That the country is now a third partner in regional development, as we all see it - we have three carriers of regional harmonious development: on the one hand, the local community, the country as a partner and, of course, on the ground, we are also looking for representatives of companies, carriers, which in some environment, of course, are still concerned that this environment is adequately equipped with infrastructure and so on, that they will be able to operate more easily themselves as an undertaking. In my decision on the second amendment, Mr Strmšnik, I would like you to explain in detail whether the country, as a partner with its financial contribution to the solid work of regional development agencies, is providing sufficient resources to work - not as someone has mentioned today - on the market they are fighting for survival, and this is not necessarily because of the content of the task expected from these agencies by local communities. If, on the other hand, we forced them to be the founders of these agencies, and I am sure that they expect them to at least prepare projects that will enable them to first come to the programme that the country knows as what we will show and say in Brussels: we are running these projects. On the other hand, we are all aware that local communities that have at least come from areas that are most structurally affected and are the weakest, and we expect them to be carriers of projects for coherent regional development. To prepare the project "ready to go" so that the service that we now give under this law space under the sun and try to organize them. Of course, I personally claim that we are missing an intermediate rate here. Therefore, I am truly sorry that we have not been able to force this country to establish this intermediate institution in the context of constitutional changes. And this intermediate institution is not a carrier of local interests, it must not be. According to the principles recognised in the European Union today as the ones in which we weigh, these are not matters of local communities. These are things we don't have carriers for today. This is the development of the region as such. This is the place where the regional development agency will work, of course, financed with better money than we expect today. I, Sir Strmšnik, really want to know about the adequate provision of resources for the work of regional development agencies, to provide us with frameworks here and to explain that these regional development agencies in which the regions of faith are placed are sufficiently funded so that the staff have the best who in some area perform the task that both local communities and the country expect of them. However, for the amendment under order number 1, it is certainly not negligible to discuss whether the administrative dispute is the part that is sufficient here. I am afraid that in this part of the preparation of these programmes, however, we will have to defend, in some way, an agency that will be limited to some extent to the expectations of the European Union services, but at some point to put on the table that state development programme with which we are running for funds, I fear that these procedures may limit our service in this work when it opens up. On the contrary, it is certain that there is a degree of legal protection that, in accordance with the best principle of fairness and the criteria to be laid down, someone who has granted funds for coherent regional development under limited resources, which are certainly limited, has granted these funds to those areas which are most needed under the best principle of fairness. Today, I say that these funds will be granted to the environment most qualified to do so, not to those most needed. Thank you very much. Mr Strumšnik, here I really expect the definition of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mag. A trifle has a word and then a mag. It's a steeple.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. I certainly agree with this, Mrs Krebs, that there is a need to provide adequate assistance in the region, to reach users and that there is a lot of inappropriate treatment in this aid network. That those beneficiaries who are supposed to receive funds or technical assistance are confused. The first starting point is certainly that very few resources reach users. Everything that has been done so far has been for the purposes of the life of these different agencies. This website certainly includes other networks and networks of PCMG, chambers of commerce, chambers of commerce. People down there, or companies in the field, want to have a place where they can get these things. Now they're so confused, they don't know how to do it. This 2nd Article - that the President will not warn me that I have drifted away. When we talked about the constitution, decentralisation is not a constitutional problem of decentralisation and deconcentration. The Constitution makes this possible, but the implementation with only the legislation you create with some provisions, you do the exact opposite. One thing is for sure: there is no complaint against the decision of the public agency for regional development in the award of various incentives. After the establishment of one agency - I agree with that, we also agreed in the opposition with the Ministry of Regional Development and to establish a single network. Of course, we wonder what is going on with the other entities that are covered here and are connected, whether they are even redundant. I mean, in our country, all the rooms are mandatory! What a system we've built! It's all mandatory. This is centralization and concentration of power - from one center. And we'd like to do regions. We do not need constitutional changes in Slovenia, but we need a proposal for a law that we are also reminded of by the Constitution. If we provided money and such an agency, of course, without failings as mentioned here, the case would be glass; there would also be technical agency assistance to draw funds from the European Union and we could provide part of the budget money for the development of regional projects, in particular those which are lagging behind. These are key issues and I am watching you when you propose laws: but you are going in the direction of strengthening the country, concentration and centralisation or decentralisation. And such procedures as - by the way they happen to you that show centralisation. That's what we object to. I don't object to intent and desire alone. For the rest, independence, I don't know what else, but it's just a restructuring of public servants, it's a struggle to address the shadow. There won't be much bread out of this - probably more than that. I'm really interested in the other networks that are in this, some mandatory, I counted them, some of them by my colleague Kelemina. What's in here? Listen, people are gonna say it's a mess. Who's gonna pay for all this? When are we going to have nonstop shops? This principle, therefore, is to get everything in one place: good services and adequate money to ensure equitable development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u207	Thank you. And I now give the floor to the Deputy Director, Mr Strmšnik, to explain these issues, which have been raised under Article 2 and the amendment which has been tabled under this Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have raised a number of questions that will certainly be the subject of further clarification by the government. I would like to point out that, in fact, with this intention to prepare a bill, we are coming to the National Assembly. We are also coming to all the parliamentary groups and the opportunity to respond will be considerable. Let me focus on what has been most crucial in today's debate. So, Mr Jerovšek and honourable Member Pukšič: European regulation, comparative presentation. Once we enter the European Union, then the regulation governing this area will apply directly to us. These are not directives, but they are regulations directly applicable to us. The dictatorship, which is in law and is talking about international legal regulation, of course, refers to how the government is organised within the meaning of government services, ministries and so on, agencies and bodies within the body, agencies as public agencies that do so. This is very different across countries and this is difficult and impossible to compare. Otherwise, the system of granting incentives and all of this is, of course, very precisely laid down in the European directives. And this is where I am now, honourable Member of the Sušnik, to your assessment of the objectives of the law. I assure you that the government has no such objectives and has not proposed that the Agency be excluded from the system of the State Administration and that the possibility of complaints be eliminated even less. It's a simple matter of the system. It is a transition to a programming way of giving incentives. So first, the Agency for Regional Development, as a public institution, as a public agency closer to regions, will be closer to regional development agencies. Representatives of the regions will be represented in the Council of Agencies. It will be less under state control and more under the control of those regions that actually need its services. Second. This agency will be a professional institution, which, of course, is obliged to act by law, must respect all principles, including morals, and there is no need for the Minister, who is a political person, in fact to decide on certain complaints concerning the decisions taken by this agency. Go ahead. The programme approach is the one we're talking about. This is not a public tendering system where certain errors can occur and then these errors must be corrected in the appeal procedure. This is a contract between the region and the country in the same way as the Treaty between the European Union and Slovenia, and this Treaty is not an appeal. The Treaty shall be harmonised between the authorities at the level of Slovenia and the European Commission and then this Treaty shall be implemented easily. I assure you that if the Savino region Programme Committee is unable to reach a consensus of mayors on the proposed projects, then no money will go to the Savino region. This is a simple assumption in the case of a software breach, and it has also been necessary to wait for a programming approach so long that regions have adopted regional development programmes to reach a basic consensus, to learn the culture of consensus and to be a partner to the state today in guiding this regional development. Several times it appears to the country that it is a bad partner; the other way around is to show it. Even regions or congregations are often not a good partner in the country. There are still a lot of things waiting for us on this road to be successful here, but I'm sure we're going and building in the right direction. The public fund for regional development makes the matter even clearer. This is about loans, it is about repayable funds, the public fund must respect the law on public funds, it must ensure the return of these matters, it must ensure the longevity of its business, it must not go bankrupt in two years. I find it totally inappropriate to give up on complaints and to decide on these complaints by policy. And this is the European practice that we are actually now introducing into our system, that's the new one, and that's better. Now, Mrs Krebs, you have actually opened one of the key issues that we need to address in law. The problem is that the law on the promotion of coherent regional development has calculated that the provinces will be established, which is why it has not determined everything about the functioning of the authorities at regional level. We have seriously calculated that the landscape design project will run faster and that these institutions and all these powers will be regulated in that law. Since they are not, and it seems that it will take some more time in Slovenia to build this consensus on dialogue between the country and the regions, it is appropriate, of course, to correct what the previous law has not regulated. That's what we intend to do. Now, as far as the regional development of agencies is concerned, this area needs to be fully regulated. We cannot solve this with one provision of the law, where I will write down that the state will finance these institutions, that would be wrong. As is the case today - the adoption of this article at this time is wrong because it would only impose an additional burden on the state budget and, on the other hand, it would not solve the problem that you have just responded to. This needs to be fully regulated, and we intend to do so in the autumn. It leads to concessions, to the formation that these agencies are not state institutions, that they are not state officials, that they are not public institutions. Question. This is a matter that this National Assembly will discuss and decide on. It is our intention that these are institutions that drive development, but those tasks that are development tasks that are in the interest of the State, which would probably need to be defined as concessions and concession fees. So, just because the government doesn't have a final position here and because we're actually waiting for a debate in the National Assembly on the problems of new changes to the law, I suggest that the second amendment is not supported. I also propose, of course, that the first amendment should not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite you again. There is no general debate. The debate is only in these two amendments. I'll stop any other debate. Comrade Kelemin, I give you my word for the fourth time, the debate on the amendment under Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u210	I think it's the third time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u211	Oh, third time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, I strongly support your tolerance for allowing you to say more about these things than you should, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Because all of this only points to how important we open up the subject. Nothing but respectable colleagues and colleagues, it's a fact. That's what this debate shows. But I will discuss what we have actually proposed - the addition of the second amendment to Article 2 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u213	You've already discussed this!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u214	I'll try to hold on to that as much as possible. I understand all that the government representative has just said. You have heard what ambiguity and uncertainty there is in this area. They don't know what to do, and they don't have things worked out. You can imagine, after so many years of efforts for regional development and so on, we do not know how we will organise these things. Before you spoke to me, Mr Secretary of State, I wrote that I do not mind that, say, private development centres or regional development agencies, which also have some private capital and so on, they deal with a concession. It is possible that this is all, but I still think - and I think you will agree with me - that this proposal is just somehow an initiative to come to the unity of action in this area. We have too many different institutions dealing with these things. Look, there's no trust in regional development agencies. The municipalities don't have trust, that's a fact. Why trust? Because they are afraid that they will not be able to succeed there with their proposals and establish some of their development centres or on a private basis - half of them are, somehow, financing themselves, and through them and, of course, through their services are applying for certain calls, past the regional development agencies. This can't be happening. We can't let this happen. And you don't want to understand that. How this comes about -- I'm not paid to think about these things, but you don't know how to start it today. And here, my fellow Member, I don't think you're thinking right. I think we need to achieve uniformity in any way already, and also an effective, transparent, transparent system of action. And when we have all these things, I'm sure we'll all do, too, at the local level and at all levels, pressure on those who are authorized and responsible for the system's functioning effectively. Now we're pushing each of these harmonica keys, where there's 90 or 100 -- I don't know how many harmonics have a key -- and we're playing each other our own way. In short, that's not how it works. That's not how it works. There's got to be order, and then it'll all be clear. There's only so much to explain this amendment. If you don't support him, it's your business. It's just an attempt at thinking that things have to be put on one track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Comrade Villa Trophynik, there is no replica because no one dared you; you said you wanted to replicate. Like everyone else, I would like to bring the debate to a close. Is there anyone who has a serious debate on the amendment to Article 2? My friend Sušnik and Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In support of the first amendment to Article 2, I would like to say something else, because today it has been repeatedly said in this assembly that nothing has been done in regional development. I would not agree with this claim, I even hope to say that much has been done, namely, that much has been done by potential users of that 1% gross social product that we now expect the country to devote to our more coherent regional development or to our users of these resources in order to reduce the differences or to reduce our underdevelopment. See - and practically this applies to all twelve regions -, were created selected regional development agencies, were appointed programme councils, were appointed project councils and in most cases regional development programmes were approved [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u217	That's not what your amendment's talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u218	Let me finish. It all ends with money - when we all count on 1% of the gross social product created by the region and to which the region would participate, and this is not 460 billion, but, ladies and gentlemen, this should be the case this year - of the Celje region - 4,605 billion with which this regional development agency should be available under the law on coherent regional development, in accordance with Article 19. If you could get me $5 billion, we'd be talking differently. However, I still think there would be disagreements in this case, or different views between the Regional Development Agency and the Interregional Development Agency. Therefore, I still believe that that provision which prevents a complaint to the conclusion of the Regional Development Agency in Articles 16 and 18 of the Harmonised Regional Development Act should be abolished or I call on you to support my amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u219	Thank you. Aloys Sok - Amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u220	I'm just gonna stick to the amendment. But I think my colleague, Kelemina, had just told me the whole reality of this problem. So we've created a lot of these development agencies and most of the money allocated by the state for regional development is, of course, spent by this network of regional development agencies. We have a lot of grandmas in Prlecia, a bald kid. And here it is, and now I think that this change has also led to the fact that there is no complaint at the conclusion of the public agency. So this is, by way of an opinion, a fundamental contradiction to the law on administrative procedure. Therefore, if we take into account the Administrative Procedure Act, which should apply to all administrative procedures in the country, then, of course, a complaint to the decision of the public agency should exist as an option. For this reason, I support this amendment tabled by the Social Democratic Party. But if I look at the situation in our statistical region, it's true and I'll say it as I can hear it. With the approval of the Ministry, 3 development agencies were created. One is said to be Sovicheva - because I don't know if it is, but that's how they say -, one is said to be from the United List, and one is led by the Avian mayor himself. And I don't know how it's gonna be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u221	This is not an amendment either.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u222	Yes, the subject is that there is no complaint as to how the funds will be allocated. They will, of course, be assigned as we know it: according to the political key. If it's ours, it'll be easier to secure money for some development projects than if it's not ours. And because, of course, the municipalities are opposed to this, then exactly what Comrade Kelemin said they are creating some of their own agencies, which will then try to run for these funds, which everyone -- I don't know how many -- we promise. At the end of the day, if you don't air this system, none of this is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The last panellist is Vila Trofenik, and then we will conclude the debate. He thinks it's said enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I also apologize for wanting to use the replica, and I forgot it wasn't there. Of course, I could not be convinced by the government's representative with the parallel of relations between Brussels and Ljubljana that this was the reason that there was no instance. This is simply, not to resent, unsustainable and, although the first amendment does not entirely satisfy me in this respect, it is a better solution than a basic proposal. [[...]] But it's not really good, because it should be a defined instance. So much for the first amendment. Because in order to legitimize some infallibility, I mean, to put it mildly, it's unacceptable. However, as regards the second amendment, I agree with the government representative that there is no need for additional resources from the state budget to co-finance the preparation of programmes or such, but I firmly believe that the existing state resources from the state budget should be spent more responsibly and transparently. It would be good if Members of such a treaty - or anyone else, including the Court of Auditors - looked at them because they were concluded by the State, with state money, to co-finance the preparation of regional programmes because they are cross-border with a number of laws. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u225	Thank you. Can we close the debate? I think you've answered all these questions before. I propose that we conclude that we are going to the vote. I would first put to the vote the first amendment to Article 2 to delete the second paragraph. That's what we're going to decide now. We're voting! There are 56 of us present. There were 23 votes against 29. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 29.]] The amendment has not been accepted. I'm also putting an amendment under item 2 - revised to decide. In Article 16, a new paragraph is added at the end, which reads as you have it written. I will put this amendment to the vote. Before this explanation of vote. My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u226	For a moment, thank you very much. In my opinion, it would be reasonable to support this proposal, if not for another reason, because if we support it, nothing will happen. Believe me. Neither will the money and so on, but perhaps someone could be forced to start working on these things a little faster and arrange things even before the 2004 budget is adopted or the budget is adjusted and the possible things are settled a little more quickly, transparently. Maybe this would be a successful pressure to get rid of these things first. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u227	Thank you. Nobody wants to explain their voice anymore. I propose an amendment under point 2, revised proposal, for a vote. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. In favour of 23 votes to 31. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 31.]] This amendment is not accepted either. This concludes my second treatment. We're moving to third reading. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading, we are therefore moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I am informed that the Government or the legislature have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. And we'll make a full decision about the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 43.8 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The law has been adopted and I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. I'm going to break four. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the War Veterans Act. On Tuesday 27.5.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the proposal for the law, it is not possible to submit amendments in the third reading, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We will vote on that. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. The vote was 11, 44 against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] The law is not adopted. I'm finishing this agenda item. I'm going to break five. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Violations of Laws of Public Order and Peace. On Tuesday 27.5.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law in its entirety. We will vote on this law before this explanation of vote, France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. As has been said many times, the initiative itself is not controversial, but the solution is very unfortunate. In fact, by freeing the burden of the offence from prostitution or prostitution, the proposer has somehow maintained the offence of aid to the one who permits it. How can a person who allows prostitution be subject to wrongdoing and the one who executes it not be the first illogicality? The second illogicality stems from the fact that the applicant did not even have the will to process at least the entire Article 10 in its entirety. Article 10 states, in the fourth indent: Whoever cheats, tramps and beggars is also involved in the service of a serious offence or can be shut down for 60 days or so. I think that begging is already part of our success story and, of course, banning the continued begging, means continuing with that socialist way because we have eliminated poverty through the direction of the Central Committee. Then it is here - in the same article, gentlemen, in the third indent, it says: "Who in a public place shames the social political order of Yugoslavia is also in violation." I think that at least so much hygiene should be provided by the proposer in order to at least process this article in an integrated manner. I don't expect him to go after prostitution in one piece, but at least I'm supposed to clean up the article. Because of this, of course, I cannot vote yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u229	Thank you. My friend Kelemin, then Roman Jakič. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I will not support this bill alone, because it is an extremely unilateral, inconclusive, partial regime, and I do not think that this is how legislation changes in the national assembly. Not only is the proposaler very simple - that I will not use another term - a way of trying to change some provision of a law, then even the public - if we say the same media audience, is said to journalists who should critically talk about such issues - even commend and raise them between clouds. And that's cynicism of the highest kind, which is even possible. And until these things are fully resolved, truly comprehensively resolved, in my opinion with a special law - because this matter deserves a special law, this is certainly, and I think you are aware of it, and this can also be confirmed by the profession if you want - for so long I will not vote for such partial solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Comrade Roman Jakič, explanation of voice, then Janez Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Of course, I will support the proposal for a law amending the Act on Offences against Public Order and Peace for a simple reason, because in fact the law eliminates certain illogicalities. In the qualification of the professions held by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, you can see that the profession is referred to as "prostitute". In the same breath, this profession is criminalized and is threatened with imprisonment for a period of two months. In fact, the proposaler has not solved the whole area and has wanted to send them on a comprehensive basis since 1993 with the initiatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has set up its expert group, composed of various ministries, which are really meant to process this area and the legislator, so Parliament has proposed solutions or proposals for amendments to the laws that would solve this area. I personally support this law also because, of course, we will be women, but also men - they say, prostitutes - give the possibility that those who prostitute voluntarily and are, for example, beaten and unpaid, can go to the police station and report it - they have not been able to do so until now because they have been threatened with imprisonment. Of course, this law does not save and does not want to solve illegal prostitution or prostitution, which is punishable by the criminal code of the Republic of Slovenia, but also pimping and the rest belongs to this category. We wanted to save the rights of those citizens and citizens and, of course, those who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia so as not to be discriminated against in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u233	Thank you. And mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. See, I have submitted to the parliamentary procedure some five laws which you have rejected because they are not fully prepared. My colleague Tsukati told you: you did not fully process even the article. You haven't even processed the article! And I will bring you back with the same measure because you deserve this - that you have not prepared a comprehensive law nor a complete article no. That was the reason - the kick-out. So this new change we know where it aims: to work from prostitution to economic activity. If you think you're going to fill a budget of public finances, you're wrong. Based on the bodies and the souls of selling, I don't think you're gonna make it. I don't think that makes any sense either. And in all human history, no one has ever tried to think this way. We are well aware that prostitution has lived, lives, and is likely to live. Our job is to help those who have been forced out of this area, especially if they have been forced. That's why the country and we are responsible. And to prevent people from slipping into an activity that is neither honorable nor good for anyone. This is our obligation: to prevent, but not to encourage, our conduct, including our legislation. That's the key reason we won't support these changes, because that's my voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. I will put the bill fully to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] The law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. I'm going to break six. Point of the agenda, thirdly, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure. On Tuesday 27.5.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposed law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law in its entirety. I will put the bill fully to the vote. Before that, there's an explanation for the voice, Mrs. Zupan Majda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I will not support the law or proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal proceedings. It is not disputed that the main reason for amending the Constitutional Court’s decision is in breach of the law with the Constitution, which caused the so-called so-called protection of judges. A shock such as the mass expulsion of judges, as well as a finding, was needed, since we will run out of judges that the authorities themselves have admitted that the current law on criminal proceedings is responsible for a number of inefficiency. Slovenia is one of the rare countries in which statements on police evidence values. Therefore, it seems that it is high time for change, but for a thorough and high degree of care. Police information collection [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u237	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u238	It will become important and the police will have to be aware of their responsibilities to continue the process. [[...]] The criminal procedure combines both the effectiveness of prosecution and the protection of individual rights and freedoms, so we need to make such decisions as legislators that will fully address this area. This is already the fourth or fifth change, and such a patching of marriages cannot wear out all the holes. One disagreement with the constitution has barely been resolved, and another one will appear. The decision of the Constitutional Court of this kind, I am sure, is not the last, which means and confirms the opinion of many experts that the law literally calls for a comprehensive system reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-26.ana.u239	Thank you. And we're going to the vote. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, and 48 votes, 11 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] The law has been passed. This concludes item 6 of the agenda. And I'm moving on to the 7th, the last point of the day, to the third defensive bill of the land book. On Tuesday 27.5.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one's against it.]] The law has been passed. I conclude with this the 7th and the last item of the agenda today. I conclude the 26th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all for your cooperation. To the messengers and to the messengers and to the government, and to the fine end of the week. Goodbye.
