ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u1	If a man says good morning at this hour, it means we've had a lot of free time, which we all know we didn't have, but it might sound better. First of all, I would like to thank the members and members of the Finance Committee who have been discussing and deciding all day and allowing us to begin today. I am therefore starting the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm informing you that several colleagues and colleagues are missing due to other obligations. These are colleagues: Dr. Brejc, Čebulj, Čeligoj, Fabjan, Jakič, Janša, Jelinčič, Kangler, Kebrič, Lavrinc, Merlo, Peterle, Possonec, Širca, Švagan, Tanko and Ana Marija Tisovic. I also invited representatives of the government to this meeting. I welcome the ministers and other representatives. So I can all smell a happy day! We will move on to the establishment of the agenda of the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with the first and second paragraphs of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to the meeting. Withdrawals and enlargements - I have not received these so that we can now set the agenda. Does anyone want to explain their voice before this, or can we move on? Please take a look at the voting devices. I will now ask that, when we decide, we be as calm as possible in the Chamber, so that the presidents can also hold a peaceful and consummated meeting. Can we make a decision? We will vote on the draft agenda as you have received it. We're voting. We have to wait a few more minutes. I think there's enough of us in the gym, but I'm gonna wait a minute. I know that there have been intense consultations between the parliamentary groups, including the government, so that a shorter delay of which our colleagues can be understood is possible. I'll wait another minute, then we'll move on to the agenda. And then I'll explain to you how we dealt with each other yesterday after the college consultation. Can we vote again, please? I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come to the hall. We decide on the agenda. 48 present, 40 for and one against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. Before we move on to a common explanation of the proposals for amending the 2004 budget and the 2005 supplementary draft budget, I should like to inform you of the following. Yesterday I consulted the heads of the parliamentary groups at the college on how to work. First, I would like to tell you that I have endured, because we know this many times, critical words about the fact that the National Assembly has been working all day, working even in late hours, that it is not necessarily good for the quality of work and that many want different organisations of work. I explained that work must be done, of course not at the expense of quality. So we made a decision to work until about seven o’clock today. If it turns out that there is a real possibility that the meeting there today will be concluded by eight, half nine, then I will have a brief consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and we will take a decision on this. If it is clear that the debate is not mature enough to decide, at about seven o'clock today, we will suspend the meeting at about seven o'clock and continue tomorrow at ten o'clock and then make the decision. We will start the decision after the first two items of the agenda and then until the end of the debate and other decisions. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2004 - EPA 1004-III and 2. Agenda items - Supplemental proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005 - EPA 1005-III. First of all, I will give the Government's representative the floor for a five-minute supplementary explanation. We have already heard the Prime Minister in the budget debate, and we will now hear the Minister. Please, Mr. Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, you have your word and five minutes available for her. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In front of you are the proposals for the amended budget for 2004 and the 2005 supplementary draft budget, which, as the Prime Minister explained in his presentation, are the first Slovenian budgets to be included in the European Union. From the perspective of the budget, the integration into the European Union brings significant changes, not only on items that frame the flow of payments in and from the budget of the European Union, but have consequences for almost every budget item if Slovenia is to avoid an exceptional increase in deficits. According to my knowledge of the past budgets, Slovenia has not yet had such major single budget changes. At the same time, together with the recession in our largest economic partners and the demands for additional resources in areas essential to development and the additional tightening of the ERM2 and the euro, both budgets are made on such strict assumptions that they no longer leave any room for manoeuvre without either increasing the deficit or covering expenditure that is a prerequisite for economic growth and employment. The last two adjustments reflecting the ERM2 and the euro programme are an increase in possible linear expenditure reductions, which is the government's side in 2004 from 10 billion to 15 billion. If the revenues do not follow the forecast, which could mainly be due to the rapid decline in inflation, we adopted this yesterday as an amendment to the law on the implementation of the budget. Another such adjustment is an updated draft budget for 2005 which takes into account the fall in inflation this year from 4.2% to 3%. The total amount of budgetary expenditure in this supplementary draft budget for 2005 is thus reduced by 19.7 billion, representing 1.13% of total expenditure. However, the balance sheet has a total budget revenue of 18.3 billion tolars. By reducing the budget deficit by 1.4 billion tolar and remaining at 1.70% of the estimated gross domestic product. The reduction was carried out both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side in the form of a proportional reduction, taking into account the very nature of income and expenditure or their elasticity to price developments. In other words, income and expenditure remain unchanged. They're nominally declining due to lower inflation. On the expenditure side, the 2005 supplementary draft budget reduces by 1.2% all expenditure that is not unduly conditional on a single type of revenue. Non-depreciated expenditure shall be grants, all expenditure related to the inflows of EU funds, own-initiative funds, own-initiative funds and other dedicated expenditure. The transfer of Slovenia to the European budget has also decreased as the expected lower inflation will result in nominally lower growth for all components of the design and consumption of domestic product. Expenditure related to EU funds is not reduced because the amount of funds negotiated is in euro and has an impact on the level of funds only by European inflation and the euro rate. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a very responsible task ahead of you, which some of the current members of the European Union have failed and the consequences are extremely severe. Great unemployment and low economic growth. You have before you a proposal that allows us to benefit from EU integration in the industry, with higher economic growth, lower inflation and lower unemployment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, colleague Puck. My friend Pucko has five minutes to present the board's position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly held a debate and decision on changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 and on the supplementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. In a rather high-quality and constructive debate "for" and "against" individual additions proposed by qualified candidates to both draft budgets, he finally adopted for 2004, referring to the draft amending budget for 2004, amendments supported by the Government and some amendments of his fellow Members. Mr Jelinčič, colleague of Maximilian Lavrinc, then the amendment to increase funds for economic public service and for judicial backlogs. And the two amendments that he has taken or accepted and which regulate certain things that have occurred since the draft budget for this year, which was submitted in early October in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With regard to the 2005 supplementary draft budget, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy took note of all the amendments tabled, the opinion of the Judicial Council, the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. And, following the opening argument of the Minister of Finance, given what conditions the nominal reduction in revenue and budget expenditure for 2005, has moved on to a decision on individual amendments. A number of issues were raised in the debate, including: Does the government plan to decommission the economy, for example in the area of wages, corporate income tax, etc.? Questions were also raised regarding the expected tax reform that had not yet been presented to the National Assembly and a question was raised regarding the estimated and also the anticipatory financial impact of this reform on the country's budget for the next two years. Some other aspects were highlighted, in particular the inadequate organisation of the country in specific areas. A question was raised regarding the planning of incentives for foreign investment. The emphasis was not a minor question in which area in Slovenia foreign investors want to invest their money and appropriate reallocation of these investments, which could probably be achieved through indirect and tax reliefs in specific areas. The Committee then decided on the 30 amendments of the individual parliamentary groups which had been tabled in accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure. The government opposed all the amendments tabled, with the exception of one, so the Committee supported the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to increase investment maintenance and construction funds for state roads by 1.5 billion Slovenian tolars. And an amendment giving certain higher funds to the public forestry service to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. At the same time, the Committee has not defined itself to those amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group whose amendments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] have not been invested in the way they should be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[...]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I suggest that you follow in the debate or in the decision-making process what was supported by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We will now hear presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. First, I will give my word to my colleague, Mr Pecchett, and then in order to move on to everyone, and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members at point 1. Now for both of us. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! In his brief speech on the public finances system, the Minister said that we have a responsibility. It would be nice if it were true that it would be a responsible task, but the fact is that there is only a continuation of that financial joke that we or you have put into practice years ago, you are doing it today and, unfortunately, you will be doing it in the future. We regret only another act, which is pre-arranged, which amendments will be adopted and how the budget will be adopted. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the Minister's speech on additions and amendments should also be highlighted. For 2004, we are talking about a revised draft budget and we are talking about an updated draft budget for 2005. With this, I would like to point out that we have already met both acts in this National Assembly. You've already adopted both acts in this National Assembly. But, of course, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared, regrettably, is not ready to work in the long term and quality, every so many months we meet with this so-called responsible act or are faced with the so-called Minister's words, a responsible task that we must adopt such financial acts. According to my assessment, the task of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards public finances, should be different. The budgets should demonstrate certain rules of the game, namely, to let economic operators know, on the one hand, as customers, on the other hand, as budget collectors, that act, and that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would give them the opportunity to know what awaits them in the future, how much of them the state would gain, which guidelines or direction the State would encourage. However, these rules of the game could be successful only if we had a long-term financial vision in some stable financial instrument, i.e. the budget. That, unfortunately, is not. We see that several times a year we face changes or additions and always under the pretext of, if, the world market situation, Europe, the euro, require these changes from us. When I listened to the editorial, the minister in front of me, it seemed to me that we had just entered Europe. It is as if our representatives have not been there for a long time, as if negotiations have not been going on for a decade and as if we were so unwilling to go to Europe that everything needs to be changed at any time. According to my assessment, it is harmful to accept changes and budget additions, especially if we know that they originate from the budget from social policy to economic policy, to the external policy that this is an act that provides for financial survival or the financial life of all areas in our society. How, then, can we say or claim by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that we have a stable social policy in Slovenia, that we have a stable economic policy, but if we make it clear several times a year to all consumers and budget fillers that the act which it commits to does not apply for long. In my opinion, this is the wrong starting point for public finances and for all those living out of these public finances. And from public finances, somehow, indirectly or directly, every Slovenian lives. Those with resin are donors to the budget through income or any other form of tax revenue, but unfortunately they cannot influence the budget. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia states in an act accompanying the budget, namely, the 2004 and 2005 budget memorandum that this budgetary memorandum represents a vision, an idea. On the introductory page, under the basic objectives and guidelines of economic policy and priorities, it is stated that our country will take the initiative to seek or seek, in particular, a stable rate of economic growth, which will at the same time be higher than the average of the European Union, so that, of course, this higher level will allow for a real approximation or reduction of Slovenia's development deficits for EU countries. So, as long as this National Assembly meets only with beautiful words and within the framework of the Memorandum, so the act accompanying the budget and of course doing nothing about it, then all the acts before us today, which are several times a year before us, will not constitute any responsible task. Because the fact is, if we want to pursue such a goal, which, unfortunately in Slovenian practice, has become a compulsory flossule and nothing else, we should also pursue such targets in other areas. According to our assessment, these are only beautiful written words. This National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is, of course, doing something different. How can economic growth be achieved? If we follow the Slovenian government's policy, we can safely say that it is possible that Slovenian economic growth will advance in a year or two - but at what price? According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, only as a result of the sale of everything that is national. Let me remind you of this, or let me argue this with the European Union's opinion on the Government's proposal or the takeover law. This National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was appalled two years ago about the proposal of the Slovenian National Party, when we tried to increase economic growth also through the takeover law and you all told us: "It is impossible, you are too protective, you want too much to protect domestic economies and this is not a European norm, Europeans will not want us among themselves if you Slovenians are to protect themselves and create selective conditions for obtaining certain capital shares in Slovenian companies." After the government of the Republic of Slovenia issued its law. But she wrote so liberal that even the European Union directive said about it: "Slovakia do not write so liberal laws because they will bury you!" So, I want to tell you that we cannot, unfortunately, accept the budgetary memorandum with the policy of this National Assembly and the policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This indicates that such an act is merely a sum of the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that this kind of budget memorandum can't hurt either. But he's still grumbling, and I've always held that it makes sense to accept those acts that are realistic. That it is completely irrelevant to accept acts with beautiful content that we know cannot be fulfilled. On the other hand, when we are talking about economic policy and budget as one of the supporters or the main supporter of economic policy, it is necessary to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the big words in the memorandum, has not yet prepared a strategy or an idea, let alone a protection for rights in terms of working relations. We all know that the institutions for macroeconomic analysis have done a study some time ago and have warned the legislature and the government through this study, and the executive authorities know that we are likely to have nearly 40,000 new unemployed people in Slovenia for the sake of inability or poor competition in the markets of the European Union. That the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would do something about it? No, no, no. In the Slovenian National Party we launched this debate, invited the trade union, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so of course there was no response. And in my opinion, the Institute for the Prevention of Such Reasoned Fear of New Jobs should be included in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. No, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not prepared to do so. In the working bodies of the National Assembly dealing with the budget, many times it has been said that the budget can be changed through amendments. Of course, reality is different. Through the amendments, a budget item can be changed, and it must be fortunate that some amendment of the opposition parties has been adopted. According to my assessment, of course, we cannot resolve this budget act or budget with the amendment. My assessment should make the budget system-wide. Absolutely not under question and pretense, because Members have an impact on the budget through amendments. We have written some amendments in the Slovenian National Party, so, of course, even if they are accepted, this is not an argument to support such a public finance plan in our country, the budget. What is most sad, however, at least according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, is that in annual budgets, budget additions and budget changes we have been exposing the basic dilemma of public finances for years and years ago. And that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never, all these years ago, answered or questioned, as far as we are concerned, fundamental budget errors. The real budgetary dilemmas, of course, remain open. We talk about them several times a year, but of course nothing further than the doors of this national assembly. The trend in public finances remains unchanged. From year to year, the difference or system of tax and non-tax revenues is increasing or steadily increasing. This country has accepted the role of the Minister of Finance in filling the budgets exclusively through tax revenues, and that we will leave the non-tax revenues behind. This year's tax revenue, or in the 2004 draft amending budget, is again 90% of tax revenue in the overall revenue structure. Here, of course, include income and profit taxes, income tax, corporate income tax, social security contributions, employees' contributions, employers' contributions, payroll taxes and labour force taxes, property taxes, domestic taxes on goods and services, trade taxes and transactions. I counted some of them or not much less than a tenth, just to see that this budgetary act essentially merely imposes obligations through the previously adopted various financial acts in the form of taxes. On the other hand, it leaves tax revenue aside. These are the tax revenues or the resources that our country should be working on, I think. But it never mattered to our country. The fact is that the government has adopted that strategy, which it has had for some time now, means to obtain money where it is obliged, i.e. from people, citizens and citizens of our country. And when I talk about the revenue of the budget, which I am sure are much more important than expenditure and that this national assembly always gives little emphasis to the revenue side and all Members are only on the expenditure side. In my opinion, this is the original sin of the National Assembly. Because if the National Assembly touched the revenue side, the story would be different. Months ago, I proposed a public or general debate in connection with tax, non-tax and revenue in general. Guess - Members of the ruling parties did not support the proposal. However, of course, you have not supported the proposal at the request of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not want to talk about revenue. We have to monitor revenue differently, I think, rather than some kind of automaticism. For as long as we monitor revenue as automaticism in this country, we will have this budget structure for so long, for which we must say fairly and clearly that it does not have a positive attitude. For the orientation of this country, as far as the future is concerned, should be demonstrated through the revenue of public finances, that is, through the burdens of all those who live in this country. It is not enough to talk and to have a partial meeting with government proposals, trade unions, of which it is appropriate for ministers to help one of the sectors, perhaps only one of the companies, but always to leave the burdens of these companies at the same time. And as long as we have a pattern or a flat rate of tax revenue, we will not be able to talk for as long as I have estimated, either about regulation or restrictions, but about incentives. The original sin of Slovenian public finances or budget is in the income ratio. As long as the income ratio between tax and tax revenues are 90 to 10, we will not be able to talk about a quality budget. As regards the climate of the adoption of this budget, which was very clearly indicated a few minutes ago by the chairman of the Committee, so the budget is still important, the budget is good, the budget is so oriented and so on. The committees, the working bodies of the National Assembly, of course, must say this, because the structure, composition of these working bodies is in the interest of the ruling parties. So the committees dealing with the budget are in fact only a 'voicemaker' of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, that means misleading. This means that we do not want to deal with the budget with a good purpose - to change it solely to enable our citizens to have quality. Given the time limit laid down by the Members of the Slovenian National Party, I should conclude that the problem of public finances is only that they are public. As long as our representatives are in the government, as long as we accept the budget by hand, so long as we accept it in such a way that we see it as public, nothing will be better for the time being. According to our assessment, no one is responsible for public finances in this country. The worst thing that can happen to us is that one of the government officials doesn't get a monthly reward for doing his job. And the second biggest problem with public finances is that Slovenia and Slovenia still believe that it is a constant culprit for public financial problems, which are also reflected in changes and budget additions, the so-called external factor. Therefore, when it comes to a plan to increase the deficit, that the state issue bonds in one way or another daily, that the country is in debt abroad or at home, and that these debts will have to be repaid at some point, it is always explained that this is the fault of the world markets which Slovenia, as a small country, cannot influence. So mistakes: the first, the public finances are unfortunately public, the second, the naivety of our citizens because they allow you to do so. I sincerely hope that the Slovenians and Slovenians will no longer allow such an approach to public finances. We do not intend or support amendments of this type for 2004 and 2005 in the National Party, irrespective of the amendments adopted or not adopted. We do not want to show any worse the misery and inability of Slovenian public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. He will now receive the word of a colleague, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. After that, I will give my word to my colleague Puck to present the views of the LDS Club. Dr. Bajuk's colleague first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Two-year budget - the story continues. We have repeatedly pointed out, and at the very beginning, that this is a completely pointless approach, especially in such an environment as still prevails in our country, where the government does not have a proper attitude towards the essential principles of transparency, reconciliation, order, which must rule in the field of public finances. We are adopting the budget for the coming years, and the provisions of our Rules of Procedure make it impossible for some real debate to be expected in parliamentary democracy. Mr President started this meeting today with his wish to be a good debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This debate cannot be as high-quality as it should be, just because, within all these rules, it is planned to be impractical. Last year we adopted the 2004 budget. What did we take? We have accepted what the government is, this national assembly or it has accepted what the government has proposed. And the government predicted once again a beautiful horizon where all things will finally be settled. It continued with the same story that we were used to in the last decade, since the rule of liberal democracy has been established in our country, that it is normal, acceptable, beautiful if the deficit there is about 1%. And again, this is what we planned, and this is what they suggested, and this National Assembly has accepted it. What did he take? It adopted for 2004 a budget that is expected to have expenditure of 1.558 billion tolars. Of course, now we have a fix. What is the correction, and what is this correction in the area of expenditure of this budget? Yes, that instead of being 1558 billion, it would be 89 billion more. So for 1,647,6 billion. What about income? With the revenues they planned for 1,500, they are now providing and explaining that they will increase by 54.7 billion. So instead of 1,500, as planned at the start, they are now proposing and planning 1.555 billion. What does that mean? It means that we planned and accepted a deficit that was supposed to be 58.3 billion a year ago. Today, this increases by another 34.1 billion, i.e. 92.4 billion or 1.7% of gross domestic product. From this town, members of the opposition, the coalition Slovenia, both New Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party have always pointed out a constant gap between words and actions in this area. And so if we want to understand what they're suggesting here, we need to focus on what we actually know, and the only thing we know is actions. What did the government actually do, no matter what she said? And the latest data we have, the only data we have is what we call the final accounts. So that's what actually slips out when all the vocabulary is over. I'm sure you remember what happened in the final account in 2001. The government solemnly covered it up, covered it up with so-called cosmetic repairs. Mr. Minister of Finance has issued instructions on how to change certain accounting statements and has nicely covered 20.7 billion, just so that this magical figure of a beautiful, small deficit can be maintained. But this came to pass, the Court of Auditors found it, this National Assembly took note of it and, of course, approved it by a large majority. It's okay, let's move on. What about the 2002 final bill, the one that is now coming into the National Assembly, and what does this show us? This, however, shows us that there were actually 47 billion less revenues than the government had planned. Of course, they also had to cut spending. How much? Yeah, just for 37. So, we've increased the deficit. And that deficit that was planned is found in the final account on the basis of the work of the Court of Auditors, 63 billion. What about 2003, now, what's going on? I'm sure you will recall this story of how we adopted the 2003 budget in this National Assembly. First came one proposal, then came the autumn analysis of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which we suddenly discovered is that the world is not as pink as we thought it would be, and of course the correction came. On the basis of this correction, we adopted a budget of 1.454 billion, 1,406 and planned a deficit of 48 billion in this National Assembly, not with opposition votes. Now what do we know about this matter? We know that the government has now sent us three different assessments in the last two months, different what is supposed to be happening in 2003. We don't have a definitive picture yet, of course we can't have it, but I would like to point out that the deficit already foreseen for 48 billion in the second budget will now be in the most optimistic assessment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia there somewhere over 70.5 billion, and this is optimistic. Well, we're used to that being normal, that's fine, and that we'll be fine, we'll be fine. Of course, moments of truth are inevitably approaching. But they are coming because we are at the threshold of the European Union and there are other criteria of transparency that have now prevailed in our country in this decade. And sooner or later, the Slovenian government will have to recognise to the whole country, to all citizens and citizens that these data were not entirely the same as they should have been. That in fact the deficits under the Maastricht criteria are different and that there will be another way to seal the belts. But what is he proposing for 2005, which we will certainly do, after these experiences we have so far, we will surely accept: expenditure of 1,750 billion, revenue of course less, 1,600, deficit 113. So since 2002 63 billion, 2003 70, 2004 92 billion, 2005 113. And as we say in our media room, this caravan is moving on. Now we have to ask ourselves whether this deficit has actually been fully demonstrated or still we are hiding something. The ancient Romans said "historia est master vitae", that is, history is the teacher of life. But the experience was supposed to apply, and that's what they wanted to tell us, to the next generations. Is the experience relevant? If I assess on the basis of the positions taken by the Slovenian government yesterday at the marathon 11-hour session of the Finance Committee, we will continue to make progress and continue to do as we have done so far. So we are not yet ready or the Slovenian government is not ready to clean up with hidden deficits, which are very legal but consciously hidden from the eyes of the Slovenian public. Just because they're hidden doesn't mean they won't have to be paid. Sooner or later, we'll have to pay for everything. This hidden deficit has been caused by the incorrect presentation of revenue in past budgets, which are government-owned piarian experts, and in this I must admit that they are exceptional experts. But once this came in part a day, it was called a compensatory deficit, it almost sounded professional, but it was things that were hidden in the holes. This deficit is hidden on the expense side. This budgetary deficit, which is known to the national assembly and to the public but not properly demonstrated, is the amount at the end of the year of outstanding and consciously unpaid obligations, which, as is known, is transferred from the budgetary accounts of the previous years to the following year. That this is a hidden deficit is not only an expert finding, but also a warning that can be found in all standards of fiscal transparency, and in particular what should be binding for us, an international money fund. Again, I must point out that the government insists on this and that, in this proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget, which we will address in the following points, it will insist that we continue, as we have done so far, to hide the deficit on the expenditure side of at least six sectors. I'll only mention two. I've talked about this a lot, and I need to talk about it. Why? Because the government doesn't have the ear to take this seriously and speak publicly once. This is a demonstration of investment expenditure for the military, financed by dedicated loans for basic development programmes, and secondly, a statement of the deposit of State guarantees when their renewal takes place. These two cases are also recognised specifically in the reports on the fiscal transparency of the Republic of Slovenia of the International Monetary Fund. I've already warned you about this, but since you're not listening, I have to say it again. The government miscalculates expenditure on the military financed by loans under the Basic Development Programmes Act. It shows them in the way they set out in 1993, when the budget accounting was not yet managed according to the current cash flow basis, in a manner that would be consistent with the current federal accounting legislation, although it is already competent experts, as we are all aware, of the then Finance Minister and the current Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, to draw attention to an inappropriate solution for the current Yugoslav regime. The Ministry of Finance today insists, aware of the irregularity of such an approach and refers to the current decision without wanting to eliminate and adapt to the system. What is it, exactly, once again, respectable colleagues, colleagues? In the current system of budgetary expenditure reporting, it is necessary to demonstrate the use of all payments made to the public budget, whether paid by the revenue inflows of the budget or by the loans paid. The amount of expenditure paid each year by loans must be shown in Balance A, this is said in the budget deficit. However, the acquisitions financed by loans on the basic development programmes programme in the State budget in Balance A do not show when payments have been made, but only when loans or their assets have been repaid. In this way, not only is the total budgetary expenditure shown in the current state budget, but also the part used for defence purposes, but also the current indebtedness of the country. Of course, this is legal, and this National Assembly allows it in the annual zipper, and you will certainly vote again this afternoon. Therefore, in the National Assembly, we do not know how much the country will be in debt for the purpose of the TRP in a given year, and certainly not for 2004 and 2005, and we also do not know the actual consumption for defence purposes in a given year, or else this affects the entire likeness of our public finances. We show lower-current public spending for defence purposes, except in cases where the principals and interest are higher than current purchases financed by loans. The incorrect statement of expenditure, as I have already mentioned, is a concrete and very clear warning, warned the International Monetary Fund in its report. Under points 15 and 34 of this report, which I have already mentioned here. In particular, I quote here: "Public spending or expenditure for military purposes must, "not be, should" be fully covered in the budget of the year when they were created, in accordance with fiscal transparency and best international practice." So it's nothing. The second point I must mention, however, is the concealment of the final public expenditure and the actual level of the budget deficit, at which the exercise of the cash guarantees is at the burden of the state budget. When the guarantee for which the guarantee was granted directly by law or by the government under the common annual quota of guarantees issued after annual zipper is redeemed, this does not appear in the budget as a budgetary expenditure, and although there is no possibility of any possibility, I stress that there is no possibility that the country could ever recover that debt from the debtor. The government, according to the findings of the Court of Auditors, is now three years in the order of payments made by the State of the guaranteed loan, registered simply as a newly approved loan in Balance B. In some cases, the expenditure on cash guarantees will, by its decision, turn into an increase in capital investments in the company of the debtor without any increase in the assets of the debtor. Of course, we do not know this at all because the government does not want to send balance sheets and investment reports to the National Assembly. That the government's doing so is at odds with economic logic, I hope it is finally only clear, and it is likely that it is also contrary to the legal rules that we are not talking about common sense. Similarly, in other cases, in cashing guarantees that mines cannot pay in closing because they still receive a state grant for closing. So once again, we must stress that such behaviour is the concealment of public spending and state aid to the economy and does not show a comprehensive picture of our public finances. A special example of non-transparent demonstration is the case of Slovenian railways, which we have already discussed in this National Assembly this year, but nothing. I hope that the position taken yesterday at the meeting of the Finance Committee, Mr Finance Minister, is that he will finally be supported by the great coalition and that we will regularly receive such reports, not only on these matters, which are hidden and hidden, but also on all outstanding obligations, on commitments that have been made and have not yet been made, that at least we will begin to draw closer to some comprehensive picture of the actual situation. Therefore, this deficit, which we have already accepted, gives some normality and is not at last exactly what it should be, is not what the government reports it and must report like all countries that will join the European Union, the European Union. Why? Because it is calculated and shown on the basis of our domestic approach, not on the basis of standards that apply elsewhere. In particular, it is ESA 95, but there is still much to be said. If you'll excuse me, Mr President, just one more word about the state's public debt. We received a report in the National Assembly by 2001, at which time the total public debt was 38.1% and was expected to be 40 by the end of 2002. I am warning all my colleagues and colleagues that we do not know what has been going on. The only thing we know is that UMAR reported public debt not only to a smaller country, but also to a broader concept of the country, but left it behind, from there no longer. The government, however, uses for comparisons, for cosmetics, only information on the indebtedness of a narrower concept of the country and thus achieves - what? - The story of success continues.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u10	Otherwise, you will know that the story of success continues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Comrade Bayuk! Comrade Bayuk, time's up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u12	However, I remind you that the Prime Minister here and also Mr. Minister, when this budget has been sent to us, assures us that everything will be fine from 2007 onwards, the deficit will be only 1% [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u14	However, the share of public consumption will decrease by 19% from 2007 onwards. [[...]] The caravan's moving on. We're not gonna support this. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Pucko will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Mr President, representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The liberal democracy of Slovenia is looking at the documents ahead of us, such as the 2004 budget changes and the 2005 budget complemented, in terms of ensuring a permanent rate of sustained economic growth and our full membership in the European Union or reducing Slovenia's development backlog for the European Union countries. The main objectives of the economic policy supported by the LDS Club include: ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances; gradually reducing inflation; continuing structural reforms; investing in modern development factors such as strengthening the competitiveness of the economy, a more efficient state and reducing its role in managing and regulating the economy; promoting investment and increasing employment opportunities in developing regions; providing economic infrastructure in developing regions; caring for the preservation and development of cultural identity. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports an economic policy that will create the conditions for successful integration into the European Union. The measures taken by the Government to promote economic growth are, on the one hand, direct development incentives and, on the other hand, structural reform. We therefore support the acceleration of those reforms that will increase the efficiency and adaptability of the private and public sectors. This is: restructuring of non-competitive industries [[Textile, leather, steel and food]] and the use of State aid by regional key; the promotion of investments to open new employment opportunities in regions lagging behind in development; the strengthening of competitiveness, the promotion of entrepreneurship and the elimination of administrative barriers to this; the increasing flexibility of the labour market with greater flexibility; the increasing competitiveness and professional efficiency of infrastructure and non-minor activities, such as telecommunications, mail, transport, electricity and financial intermediation. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia support the measures taken by the Government to reduce inflation through policies of controlled prices and change fiscal burdens, deindexise wages, efficiency of the non-changing and public infrastructure sector. For the success of Slovenia as a new member of the European Union, income policy is still important in the coming years. Thus, by enforcing the Public Sector Wages Act in a fiscally neutral way, by not increasing the mass of public sector wage spending, the government will ensure a reduction in wage differentials in the public sector by narrowing the range between wage classes. This will improve the relative position of lower payees. We also support the proposal for a joint human resources plan for state administration authorities in 2004 and 2005, which will reduce the total number of employees in the state authorities by one per cent each year, except for the police and the Slovenian army, which will carry out the border protection project with maximum rationality and in search of possible mutual cost reductions. Your Honor! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support measures to increase the flexibility of public financial expenditure on one hand and measures to improve the structure of those on the other. In particular, we welcome the Government and Banka Slovenije programme on the entry into ERM2 and the euro area. We are convinced that this decision is the framework and basis for a stable and successful Slovenia in the next period. We will therefore support the draft amending budget for 2004 and the 2005 budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Comrade Pucko. Mr Battelli will present the position of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. After him, he will have the word of his colleague Pohorec. First, my friend Battelli. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone! Here I have the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, quote: "Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and their members are guaranteed all rights under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the international treaties in force." The 2004 and 2005 budgets bring both national communities to Europe with less resources than, for example, any year before, but with less resources than, for example, 1998, 1997 or 1996, 2000, 2002. They do not have the economic basis of the national community, despite the fact that the regime in that country provides for the establishment of this economic base. The last time it was decided at a mixed commission, at a joint meeting of the Commission of the Republic of Slovenia, Furlania - Julian Krajina to make a financial company with the participation of the Slovenian minority in Italy and the Italian National Community. When we talk about minorities - here's talk about Slovenians in Italy, not about Italians in Slovenia - however to make a mixed financial company, the Ensembled Economy of Slovenians in Italy has a capital of EUR 11 million, 11 million. One subject. 11 million euros. We don't have the resources to invest anything in this. We live exclusively with cultural activities and everything else. Only from public funds. And there are fewer of these every year. Everyone lives in the belief - for example - that we have television and radio. That's not true! It is a public service which, according to our legislation, also serves the needs of national communities. This is, inter alia, less and even at certain points contrary to ratified and international treaties in that country. That's not true, so we have this! But philosophy is that the state, government, parliament and public institutions cannot agree on what to do now. In 1994, the law that was adopted here - and we voted against this law - changed RTV Koper and the Italian programs from resource to cost. Everything that has been adopted in the National Assembly, including at the Government's initiative, for culture, for RTV and beyond, as a contribution to the improvement of this situation, was again taken away from the 2004 draft budget in the same year. So this same majority, which initially allocated so much more, took them away a few months later. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Finish the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Regarding the operation of the National Assembly, the Finance Committee, for example, rejected all the amendments adopted by the National Community Commission. At this same meeting of the Commission for National Communities at the 2004 and 2005 budgets, there was no one - except one exception - who could tell and explain why these funds were reduced and why they were reduced in the amount for which they were reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Time's up [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u22	I'll be done. [[...]] So much for what is real and what is said in this country about the protection of the national community, which, among other things, experiences this as the only one, the only one, one third less than in 1991 and eight months [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Comrade Battelli!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u24	The government has not responded to why these are [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Comrade Battelli!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Look! If I can trust a purely human person, it is very difficult to reach out to someone in the end because it seems that the chairman is defaming his position and wants to stop him because he disagrees with him. That's not true! We owe it to him to stop because time is up. The time limit shall be chosen by the Group of Members, either by its own rules of procedure or by its own rules of procedure. Please respect these rules! Mr Pohorec will present the views of the Group. First, we have a presentation of the parliamentary positions to the end. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We are ahead of the responsibility for the year ahead to consider and adopt the draft amending budget for 2004 and the updated draft budget for 2005. Both acts were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with its responsibility and responsibility. In the process of discussion and acceptance on the working bodies, both have experienced a number of changes and additions. The budget is always a state of play in the development of the state, its territorial units. It shows even more the state and conditions of operation in all areas of our individual and common life. The central point of the budget should be the human being, the citizens of the country. After all, the collection of all desires and all needs concerns a person, a citizen. A set of desires can be endlessly long. It also collects all the needs that are already closer to real opportunities and is always compared to environments in a narrow or broader sense to which we would like to compare ourselves with our own level of development. The 2004 budget is first included in the new conditions of our life in the European Union. The time has come for perfect realization. The time has come when we will have to become increasingly aware that we can only spend what we create. The already increased budget deficit reminds us that we want to spend more than we create. While the involvement of the budget in the European situation gives us new opportunities to get something more from European resources, at the same time our government and all of us have a great responsibility to take advantage of these options. In the course of the debate on both budgets and the law on the implementation of the budget, we have witnessed a host of unrealistic proposals. Otherwise liked for local areas and areas of interest. Who among us would not find and propose such a proposal? Or we can do it together, but it's another question. Are we prepared to align these partial and local interests with the interests of others and with the common interests of the country as a whole? Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners are committed to achieving the objectives set out in both budgets for 2004 and 2005. We will support both budgets with the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Mr Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! We have two important documents ahead of us, a change in the budget for 2004 and an updated draft budget for 2005. Certainly both documents are in a special way original, since for the first time they are Slovenian-European. When the National Assembly adopts budget additions for the following years, this is the year of entry into the European Union, we must take into account the new competitive conditions that will arise in the enlarged European Union. There will be more businesses on our market. It's going to be more competitive. There will be a greater need for knowledge and skills to be trained for such a game. Our companies will be allowed to enter the markets of the European Union. For decades, they have been flowing through steady streams, where they can only be penetrated by top-notch products and services. But it is even more difficult to apply to them in the long run. We can also conclude from this that there will also be greater pressure on the labour market in Slovenia, because they will compete mainly with highly qualified staff in the highest pay grade. That is why we also support all those budget orientations aimed at ensuring the long-term performance of Slovenian companies, in tackling social change, especially through training of employees for more demanding jobs and in providing skills that will also create such high-quality jobs. Today, it has been said briefly that in recent days some amendments, which may or may not have been adopted by the Finance Committee, may have been very interesting. These are some segments that are very important segments in each state budget. If I mention funding for municipalities, if I mention financing for regional development, or if I mention financing for the construction of state roads. These are very important segments for the operation of these subsystems. On the other hand, this exceptionalness of the budget, this synthesis of the Slovenian and European budgets, in our view, is an opportunity for us to present here as a government party our conceptual content view of the future of Slovenian public finances within the framework of European public finances. We will draw on some of the findings in this regard. The first conclusion is that in the future budget period the characteristics of Slovenian public finances will also be a high proportion of legally defined and, therefore, of non-adaptable expenditure in the short term. On the other hand, Slovenia is defining in its key development documents the transition to a new development consensus where public finances are to play the most important role as a catalyst for investment in new jobs. To their technological transformation and to education, science and research. Such guidance can be found in Slovenia's economic development strategy, the development report, the social agreement for the period 2003/2005 and in the government's programme for effective entry into the European Union. On the other hand, Slovenian public finances are within the framework of meeting the nominal convergence criteria set out in the Maastricht Agreement, which presupposes mainly a reduction in inflation. In the Slovenian People's Party, we know and feel that, as a government party, we are in a difficult position with our coalition partners, when we need to harmonise many, even conflicting, interests in the formulation of the state budget. Last but not least, we must move under the terms of the coalition treaty. It is clear that the National Assembly cannot serve all the objectives set out above. That is why, not what is short today, but that is why Mr Finance Minister Prof. Dr. Marble has made a strong point because we are witnessing relatively low economic growth, which is also the most dependent on the state investments linked to the budget due to the economic recession in our most important export markets. Second point. The second point, which we present with the necessary responsibility, is also allowed to say with the necessary self-criticism at this point. The rate of the so-called implementation deficit is always reflected after the adoption of the national budgets. It represents the difference between the formal acceptance and the actual realization of the accepted. Between the standardised and actual impact of different social actors. This non-compliance leads to a more optimal functioning of the social economic system and has a divergent effect on development initiatives. If the legal order in various parts of the social economic system has been applied differently, the solutions shall be formulated in a partial manner. Then comes the consequences. For example, the material impoverishment of development and financial superiority over development arguments. Or development is only too adapted to the interests of a smaller number of actors. Or development is less balanced and increases pressure on the previously mentioned resources. Good and equitable enforcement of the acquis reduces transaction costs in guiding development and facilitates the formation of development coalitions. This is also the subject of the Strategy for the Economic Development of Slovenia. The third conclusion - such a situation is worrying. The implementation deficit is growing. We are therefore late for some important reforms of the economic and public sector, which the Slovenian People's Party believes are necessary to preserve the competitiveness of the economy after entry into the common European market. There will be a need to find legal and other mechanisms for the state budget to at least partially free itself from pre-definition and to set key development priorities. A few basic data that talk about the very large growth of the budget and of the whole public-financial sector, both on the revenue and expenditure sides. Increase in index 111.8 this year, in the coming year 112.3. The 2005 forecast, however, falls to 106.3. This is due to a renewed recovery of economic growth. How will such a situation affect the competitiveness of the economy? Will this lead to corporate bankruptcy and then return as boomerang in the form of ever-increasing social transfer costs? We believe in the Slovenian People's Party that there are no valid reasons for delaying the structural reforms of the private and public sector. Blind compliance with nominal convergence criteria alone is not sufficient and may be pleasing to Brussels officials. How much longer? The recent collapse of the Stability Pact in the event of the suspension of drastic sanctions against Germany and France due to their apparent excess of the 3% deficit limit of the State Treasury is a case in point that this is obviously no longer the case. Both France and Germany risked serious sanctions against the principles they set themselves with their colleagues in relation. Why? Did they find that they were set up without real meaning? Even changing them up would no longer make sense, for there would be rapid recurrences of violations. Has the European Union abandoned its principles because it has seen that they are meaningless and cannot be implemented under given conditions? Will new criteria need to be introduced and new control mechanisms established? The fact is that Member States no longer have discretion over their own monetary and exchange rate policies. Therefore, it may be sufficient for them to take full responsibility for their public debt. We do not yet know exactly what control mechanisms the European Union will choose. But apparently nothing will ever be the same as it was. Fourth conclusion. The Programme for the Effective Entry into the European Union commits the Government to adopt measures in the fields of economy, regional development, health reform, public administration reform, the implementation of the rule of law principles, foreign policy in order to reduce inflation, reduce interest rates, reduce employment growth in the public sector, preserve the reality of the social system, reduce the high level of investment expenditure, in particular increase development activities and education, and thereby increase economic growth, increase employment and thus increase the efficiency of the economy and the country. The government has received our client's support and mandate for these commitments to achieve its objectives. We stand by her and, within our competence, we will offer her all our support. However, we will certainly not agree to disrespect or avoid these arrangements, which could ensure that our economy does not achieve the necessary start in new conditions of competitiveness. Last month, the Government and Banka Slovenije prepared a joint material on Slovenia's entry into the ERM2 regime, which is intended for the Economic Social Council. Therefore, this document contains a commitment to the developmental shift of budgetary expenditure over the next budget period and provides for the measures necessary to continue reforms after entry into the ERM2 exchange rate mechanism when Slovenia loses its ability to maintain macroeconomic balance after the loss of sovereignty in monetary and exchange rate policy management. We are confident that consensus within the Economic Social Council will be sufficient to create a new development consensus. The latter will be needed after entry into the European Union. At the same time, it will enable real convergence criteria to be met, as well as the developmental catch-up of the developed members of Slovenia. Respected colleagues and colleagues, regardless of the formal criteria set, Slovenia must support the continuation of reforms. Slovenia must complete the period of transition as soon as possible. Such measures are also required by informal - we can call them - realistic convergence criteria, which will certainly become increasingly important. It will be necessary to complete the reforms of the financial sector as a whole and to allow for a faster pace of technological restructuring of enterprises, thereby opening up new jobs with high added value and in order to ensure that the tax obligations of the economy do not increase. And how can we do that? In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, it is necessary to revive such a step - we can say - to reform the form of seeking social consensus, which must first be based on the actual representativeness of all social partners. Before the new development consensus, it is also necessary to complete the reform of the social state - as already mentioned - in particular the reform of the health system, and partly the pension system and partly the school system. Finally, it is also necessary to complete the reform of the research system and universities with a great deal of political courage. Because in our view, the latter must be able to develop knowledge transfer systems into businesses. That's not gonna be an easy task. As I said in the introduction, we are aware that each time the adoption of the state budget is also an opportunity for fellow Members and colleagues to identify themselves to some of the development and other problems that are present in the environment where they have been elected as Members or Members. We appreciate that attitude. Finally, the Member shall always have relations with its electorates and electorates. But as a parliamentary group and as a party, we want to contribute with our decisions to a responsible attitude towards public finances. In this regard, I also presented some of the party's principled views to the future Slovenian public financial image. At the same time, I can say that we will act responsibly when we vote on individual amendments. We will try to take into account the position of the government, the Minister of Finance, and in some aspects the solutions proposed by the Committee on Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Brejc will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen! Not exactly attracting the state of public finances continues. That's our basic conclusion. From the very beginning, we are thinking that the government is planning incomes according to the most optimistic method to make them look as large as possible. On the other hand, it shows expenditure in a different way. How can I put it? It's a pessimistic method. The difference is too big at the very beginning. What is this difference, as the government sees it, is 88.8 billion. Increase and on which items should the planned expenditure be increased? Now there's one of those big questions. It's necessary to increase them for the reason I've already said it. Because they were under-planned in the adopted budget. Here we are referring in particular to current transfers for 28 [[?]] billions, other current transfers of 25.6 billion, interest of 6.2 billion, employer's contribution of 3.7 billion. A little more than 14.5 billion are also to be allocated to investment expenditure and transfers. However, increased use for investment purposes is unlikely to be believed if we come from the experience of past years. Just for illustration. Even in the 2002 budget balance, increased expenditure on investment purposes was not actually realised at the estimated level, only 76%. Investment spending increases are in the 2004 budget or are likely to occur due to the creation of a reserve for another matter. For what unrealistically planned other items? Why do we think that? We are particularly convinced of this by the proposed provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget, on which the Government is expanding its commitment to pay in the coming years. For example, in the field of agriculture, financial debt, which should not be considered as a total amount of State debt and thus not a budget deficit. I mean the basic development programmes, the responsibilities for railways and so on. Such behaviour is contrary to our system regulation, contrary to the European system of accounts, contrary to international standards on fiscal transparency. In addressing the 2004 budget changes, let us also point out that it will not be affected in a positive sense by any of the announced reforms. Neither tax nor medical, because none is yet ready. The proposed changes for 2004 increase the budget deficit to 1.5 gross domestic product. With any change or rebalancing of budgets, the government is making the state's public financial position worse. What does the draft budget for 2005 bring? The budget or its proposal foresees that this year we will have 4% higher revenue or revenue and spend or pay for 5% more from the budget than is foreseen in the 2004 budget changes. However, the budget deficit will be higher by 21% than planned for 2004. It's going to be about 1.7 GDP. There are no significant structural changes in the projected 2005 budget spending. Except for 4% of the point, higher expenditure of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. The structural changes in budgetary spending, which would have an impact on the restructuring of our economy, cannot be discussed because the Ministry of Economy will receive 14% less funding in 2005 than in 2003 and 9% less than in 2004. Even in 2005, the government will continue to limit expenditure under programmes adopted by specific laws, increase budget deficits and public debt beyond system-wide arrangements, assume payment obligations over the coming years, modify or increase the ceiling on financial debt through the so-called fiscal stabiliser. The 2005 budget will certainly be subject to changes by this government. But we believe the following is true. Its change will in fact be affected by our membership in the European Union. That is why it does not show too much attention to this budget. As I said, the government will not implement the necessary reforms in the current mandate - for example - of tax reform. The Minister of Finance in 2004 only announces the adoption and implementation of the Law on Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons and Amendments to the Income Act. All of this is supposed to happen later. As we say, it will have no impact on the budget mentioned above. We believe that both laws would be adopted and enforced together if we were to achieve the announced objectives. We have not yet in the opposition, nor have we seen a new proposal for a law on the income of legal persons, nor a new law on income. The professional public has already said a lot about this. It is interesting to see the Economic Chamber’s position on these matters. I quote: "After the first calculations, the burden on the minimum class of taxpayers is actually slightly lower, but the changes in the tax scale promise to place a much smaller proportion of the debtors in the lower class than before. With increased progress, it is our assessment that the Chambers will increase the burden of middle and high education on the bondholders. With the envisaged extension of the tax base, interest, and also in view of the proposed restrictions on specific reliefs, it is difficult to predict that the revenue flow to the state budget would indeed be reduced. So it's the opposite of what the state says. The Chamber of Commerce concludes with its assessment, ensuring that the implementation of all proposed amendments could in fact increase the tax burden in general and affect not only the higher labour costs but also the reduction in purchasing power. It's hard to tell who the public trusts now. It is also unclear what will happen to the salary tax. I also mentioned that there is no health reform yet and that it will not affect 2004. Current economic growth does not allow the gross domestic product level to be reached by the Member States. We think on the basis of the information published publicly or from which it follows that we are not even now catching up to the growth of the developed European countries or of the European Union, but that we are already lagging behind. Looks like we'll be lagging behind in the future. If we want to achieve - say - neighbouring Austria in the coming years, our growth should be at least 8 to 10%. Our economic growth forecasts are, therefore, three times smaller. This clearly leads to a huge gap between what the government is predicting and what we are actually expecting and what is unfortunately going to happen. With regard to the 2004 and 2005 budget changes, it is not expected that the actual implementation of the password will be achieved, namely: "We want to become a knowledge-based society." In Slovenia, the country gives about 0.6% for research and about 0.8% for the economy of gross domestic product, which is about half less than Germany gives. But the difference between us and - for example - Germany is that there is a strong link between research subsystems and the economy. She's not here. In our case, as demonstrated by yesterday's debate with the President of the Republic, there is a great gap between the scientific sphere, the sphere of investigation and its actual usefulness and the linkage with the economy. It's interesting. I do not underestimate any part of the Slovenian research sphere. It seems to me that in these times, resources should be directed differently towards those activities that will help us in economic development. It seems incomprehensible to me - for example, as we read in the newspapers - to get the most for the research activity of the Faculty of Social Sciences during social colleges. Let's say three times what he gets from the Faculty of Economics. I don't go into the criteria of how and what. I think that now, however, research money should be focused on technology, on the development of new technologies, on the development of the economy. We're in this situation. If we do not do so, our gross domestic product will be even smaller in the future. But we will know him very well, sociologically, politically, and otherwise legally. All the governments of liberal democracy have so far failed in the formulation of economic policies that will strategically guide the development of the economy to higher technologies and thus faster economic growth, which would also allow us to reach more developed ones. That's interesting. Among the ten new members to join the European Union, Slovenia has the smallest share of highly technologically developed products in its exports. Only 5%. We do not know any measure, in particular the government, in ten years to guide science and technology studies. The 2004 budget and 2005 budget also does not provide any assurance for the actual application of knowledge-based companies. The budget programmes are targeted at the declaration level towards programme results and effects, not in fact. There are no indicators in the budget documents. There are no criteria for directly measuring programme results and thus a more efficient location of budgetary resources. How to lower public spending and higher long-term economic growth? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that before explaining the changes to the 2004 budget, the responsible government should organise a debate and present economic policy measures to answer the question of how to achieve higher and longer-term economic growth. I think that's one of the key questions. Instead, the government is waiting for economic recovery in the largest Member States of the European Union. Then - as Minister Dr. Marble says - we will approach measures to address the structural budget deficit. I believe that there will be an upturn and rise in the European Union, a real growth, up. But the question is: will Slovenia then have something to offer higher demand on the European market? The question is also: To what extent will domestic producers - how can I say - be somehow uprooted after 1 May 2004 and not just from the foreign market, even from the Slovenian market? Let's say we're talking about the food and food processing industry. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the ERM2 entry and takeover programme. This is assessed as the only way to effectively reduce inflation to a level that is in line with the Maastricht criterion, which is with 3% of GDP. However, it is necessary to say out loud and the government will not do so. However, citizens and citizens of Slovenia must be told out loud that the decision to enter ERM2 and take over the euro will require certain problems or cause certain problems. I am thinking in particular about falling behind in wages, pensions, social transfers for inflation. These measures will be felt primarily by those who live on their jobs and not on capital. It's real fear. It would be good if people knew that in advance. The success of the ERM2 and the euro programme will depend largely on the effective implementation of policies under the responsibility of the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. Here we get to the next problem, this is the actual size of the budget or public-financial deficit under the Maastricht criteria. We all know - this is now widely known - that the upper limit of this budgetary annual public-financial deficit, which cannot be exceeded by a Member State, is 3% of the gross domestic product. How do we show this domestic product and this deficit? The government uses its own methodology. It's nothing wrong. According to this own methodology, this deficit - as we often hear today - is between 1.5 and 1.7. There's something else under 1 in there. But we need to look at what the structure is, what is considered by the Slovenian deficit methodology. So only this level of state, not the local level and not the social and disability insurance funds. Look at this table in Economic Mirror number 10, 2002. There you can see well: the debt of the country 26 whole Yes, sorry, this is now first of all as far as the financial deficit is concerned. [[...]] So we're showing 1.5 is actually 2.5. Why? Because there is no unit within the local level and social funds and so on. The same logic of the matter, the same logic to the point in showing the public debt of the country, is then shown in the number 10 of the 2002 Economic Mirror, where we show the country's debt of 26.9 gross domestic product. But if we look at the whole structure in this table, it's nice to see: if we add local communities, PIZ and health care to it, it's already 27.5. If we add the rest of the public sector [[We mentioned TRPs and everything.]] That's 38%. You will say, "Yes, but public debt must not exceed 60% of gross domestic product, this is the criterion in the European Union." And that's true. But it is not right to show that we are brilliant compared to others. Because that's not true. We must count everything that is considered to be a public debt of the State, not only what the State causes in a narrower sense. Because if we want to compare ourselves with others, we need to apply the same, exactly the same criteria. Regrettably, as I said at the outset, the government's presentation of the state's public finances is misleading. I can't say otherwise. The government has not been able to cut down on structural changes in the 2004 budget or in the 2005 budget, nor have it been able to define common or aggregate fiscal disciplines. It will wait - as we have already said - for the problems in Europe to pass away from recession. Then she'll try to act. I'm afraid it'll be too late and we won't be ready for it. Although all of this is happening, the government, in explaining the changes in the 2004 budget, will write as a public finance policy target for the period up to 2007 the following: "By 2007 the budget deficit is expected to fall below 1% of gross domestic product," This is, of course, according to our methodology, not according to a European comparable methodology, "the share of national consumption in gross domestic product will be reduced and will be 19.4% in 2007." Well, that's nice! I am very happy that the goals are so high, but there is nowhere to go. Now that we are talking about these paths to the goal, we have tabled many amendments in the past. I wouldn't be wrong enough to say that we've certainly invested more than 200 in the past. No one's been accepted. Is it possible that nothing we suggest goes through? Yes, it is possible in this country. And let me say one more thing. We've lived relatively well so far. Experts here believe that they are beyond their capabilities. Something similar happened to us in Yugoslavia, but then the time of sobriety came and the problems were endless. I'm afraid one day we'll have to pay the bills that have been made in the past. Accounts generated by reckless economic and other liberal government policies. This time is coming. I'm afraid we're going to see a very different picture of success in the coming years. And if I were to say it in the people's language; if we were to listen to the government, one would say, "We're going to be drenched in honey and milk." In fact, it looks like we're going to eat bread and onions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u33	Mr Ferri Horvat will give the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear ministers, ministers, secretary of state, representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! From the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the adoption of budgets for 2004 and 2005 is a particularly important and responsible action, as this is the first European budget of the country of Slovenia. This action is so much more difficult and responsible because the expectations of people at the time of entry into the EU are high, as are the major challenges and the necessary adjustments in the conditions of membership in an enlarged united Europe. It is understandable, however, that the question for us is whether and to what extent the budget ensures the achievement of Slovenia's objectives and strategies and, in particular, the achievement of priorities such as competitiveness and economic growth, greater employment opportunities, social security and cohesion. In short, the well-being of people in new circumstances. We expect that when the budgets are adopted, the answer to this question is positive. We will also support this budget. In view of the latest developments and forecasts of economic developments in the United States, in world trade and in particular in the euro area and the European Union, there are signs of a deep recession. The President of the European Central Bank's announcement days ago in the European Parliament and elsewhere says that by the end of this year, the increase will be around 0.7%. This also substantiates forecasts for growth in 2004 and 2005 even up to 2.4%. This also substantiates the reality of domestic and foreign assessments as the basis for planning our two budgets. Legal positive movements in the budget composition - although we would like to see larger numbers in some segments, but we take into account the constraints we face - we see in particular in the following areas. Increase investment in infrastructure, housing and the economy. In addition to public investment, greater private investment will also be important. So some kind of investment partnership. This is also the latest direction of the European Union as we know it. Greater investment in R & D. I would like to remind you of the European Union's target of 3.32% of GDP for these investments. Increased investment in knowledge and education, increased investment in active employment policy, new jobs, the promotion of foreign and domestic investment, greater investment in more coherent regional development, emphasis on competitiveness and restructuring of businesses and the promotion of small economy and tourism, and could also be mentioned. These orientations are largely in line with the European Union's latest efforts to revive the so-called Lisbon Agenda with the aim of increasing knowledge-based economic growth and competitiveness of employment, social cohesion, reducing regional disparities and increasing the role of the European Union in the global world. There is a great deal of emphasis on these guidelines in the proposals of the European Constitution. Unfortunately, this has been discussed less, both in terms of objectives, policies and decision-making. A number of documents on how to achieve these objectives have already been adopted or considered within the European Union institutions. Let me mention only some: the fall in stability and growth, the growth agenda, the conclusions of the October Presidency of the European Council, the initiatives of the European Commission and the European Parliament, and a number of other initiatives with policy proposals to increase employment growth of industrial and social policy and the environment. The common denominator of these documents is how to improve the effectiveness of policies in the European Union itself, including changes in the composition of the European budget, as well as the need for greater coordination of the economic and other policies of the Member States of the enlarged Union. Allow me to limit myself to a few more questions that we find particularly important in these budgets. This year we have adopted a comprehensive social agreement for the period 2003-2005, which means a thorough agreement between the social partners on the fundamental issues of our development. Since the United Nations Charter underlines the importance of social partnership - which is also a European category - and thus the role, importance, trust and responsibility of the social partners for all the essential issues of development, economic, social and event policies, we are convinced that this has created the fundamental conditions for the stable development of our country also under the conditions of membership in the European Union. That is why the government coalition has been able to set up an ambitious programme for effective entry into the European Union. Slovenia builds its national vision of development and fundamental strategic orientations on the Lisbon development conclusions and the guidelines of the new European Constitution, which aim to balance the economic, social and environmental components. The unemployment class is one of the most important macroeconomic objectives for achieving balanced social economic development in Slovenia. In this area, despite the very difficult economic situation, which is conditioned by the economic recession in Slovenia's most important markets, we are achieving significant results as unemployment fell below 100,000 this year. Our goals and desires are set higher. The employment and work of everyone who is able to work are important if not a key element of the social cohesion of society and the condition for the preservation of human dignity. The development of the labour market in the most developed countries of the European Union shows us that these results in the movement of unemployment are commendable to us. The common basic measures in the labour market focus on faster employment growth and the reduction of unemployment, which is expected to achieve a natural rate of unemployment by 2006. We therefore welcome the objectives set by Slovenia in the National Programme for the Development of the Labour Market and Employment until 2006 among the priorities of the budgets. In 2003, the European Union adopted a renewed Employment Strategy by 2010 and on the basis of the European Employment Strategy Guidelines to Member States, which foresee 10 measures to promote employment and employment creation. On the basis of both strategic documents, the Republic of Slovenia has already prepared a national action programme for 2004 and 2005, which is also required to submit to the European Commission. Within two years, the budget for the labour market is prepared in accordance with the objectives and orientations of the European Employment Strategy. It is methodologically and substantively aligned with 10 European Union employment policy measures, as well as with Union regulations on the drawing-up of structural funds, in particular the European Social Fund and the Union's "equal" initiative. In 2004, the first financial year Slovenia gained access to the European Social Fund. The European Social Fund will finance active employment policy measures that will reduce Slovenia's backlogs, especially in the area of increasing employability, unemployment, social exclusion and the promotion of new employment. The situation in the labour market is improving, according to the European Union report on the progress of Slovenia. According to the National Labour Market and Employment Development Programme by 2006, 95,000 registered unemployed persons and 10.6% of the population will be expected to be registered by the end of 2003 and 92,000 by the end of 2004. In addition, measures will be implemented to reduce passive forms of financing for unemployed persons, for monetary compensations and for monetary assistance in favour of funds that enable the active employment of unemployed persons, and for programmes that provide employment and training. This is how we understand the redirection of the proposed budgetary resources, where active employment policy as a whole has a well-founded important priority. In our view, the Employment Office will have to continue to adapt to the objectives of employment policy in the European Union. In order to achieve these objectives, especially in the interest of Slovenia, active employment policy funds must focus on regions with an average unemployment rate, programmes and persons who will be involved in programmes and training for higher levels of education and appropriate professional qualifications, further to more effective employment of women, young people, first job seekers and over 55 years of age. The objectives for an active employment policy will only be achieved with appropriate economic growth, which will allow for the creation of new jobs, reduce regional disparities and provide adequate macroeconomic and fiscal conditions for the promotion of new investment and entrepreneurship. Economic experts and social partners are of the view that Slovenia must be included in the ERM2 as soon as possible. Slovenia will lose the leverage of monetary policy by entering the waiting room - or, as some say - with which it has so far neutralized negative and internal economic shocks. However, among other analyses, it is also necessary to take into account a recent analysis by the European Union, which notes that Slovenia has the largest share of the euro among all candidates or new adherents in its economic exchange with abroad, not only with the euro area and the Union, but also with other countries. So, the economy is fully prepared and wants to introduce the euro as soon as possible. At government level, the potential for direct government state aid to businesses will be reduced. Entry into the EU increases some direct commitments towards the EU while at the same time allowing European funds to be drawn up in the fields of agriculture, rural development, structural adaptation, regional development and the establishment of the Schengen border. In doing so, we stress that the Government or the Ministry must ensure as soon as possible that the funds from the European Union funds are used effectively for the period 2004 to 2006. This will also affect Slovenia's participation in the new financial perspective 2006 - 2013, with extremely difficult and hard negotiations ahead. Although we are also in favour of a balanced budget in the ZLSD, we believe that in the current situation of the global European recession we cannot avoid a moderate deficit. Especially if it is one and must be in the function of promoting development. Therefore, the Republic of Slovenia, with social partners and other social actors, must ensure that there is no greater financial imbalance by means of austerity measures in order to avoid long-term imbalances in public finances. This is also largely possible through the adoption of a social agreement that has already contributed to the reconciliation of some of the most important budget expenditure, as well as a successful agreement on wage unification in the public sector. Our inclusion in the EU will also require enhanced activity and resources in the field of culture. This is a prerequisite for maintaining and strengthening our identity within a community of larger and stronger European nations. The Ministry of Culture has already sought to ensure, in its activities and limited means, the strengthening and upgrading of already achieved standards in the field of institutional and non-institutional artistic and other cultural activities and in the field of the protection of cultural heritage through the preservation and development of Slovenian language, the promotion of cultural diversity, the provision of accessible cultural goods of the population and the accessibility of the conditions for artistic and cultural creativity to the greatest possible number of creators. Culture can contribute significantly to the promotion of economic development. In particular, towards the development of human resources, quality of life, social cohesion and, in particular, the country's universal international promotion and its better visibility. Our willingness to work successfully in the European Union will also depend very much on the good organisation of the state and local communities and the professionalism of public administration. Much work has already been done in the past with the adoption of a number of laws, which is also reflected in the positive assessment in the Report on the progress of the Republic of Slovenia by the European Commission. In all the legal projects implemented, we must not ignore the many other tasks and activities undertaken to improve the quality of the work of the public administration by European standards, including accessibility, the speed of work of the administration and the human face of this administration. We now have important tasks to carry out the Schengen border, where activities have been going on for several years. Much more resources and efforts will be needed to achieve the necessary standards of border protection as expected by the European Union. One important task - and thus I conclude - in which we are quite late and which is particularly important for more coherent regional development and for successful action in the European Union [[I am particularly thinking of cross-border cooperation and interregional cooperation]] is the earliest regional organisation of the provinces. We very much hope that yesterday's decision by the Constitutional Commission is the final green light to accelerate the implementation of this important project, including in the context of the near entry into the European Union, where regions also play an increasingly important role following the proposal of the new European Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, we deal with the budget for each year three to four times. So much of the singing novelty that we introduced a few years ago obviously has no positive effect. These procedures even obscure the overall state of funding planning and review. With all the changes and the rebalancing, it is no longer clear how much resources are allocated to which ministry, even less than they are intended for a project. Thus, every year we adopt a budget for two years in advance, we are changing it again next year and we are correcting it once again in the year of implementation. I don't know what the benefits of doing that are. No government statement of expenditure and revenue for two years in advance shall be kept. Although the government is talking about an unstable international economy and the world situation. Why it makes sense to draw up budgets for two years in advance if most of the items are then subject to changes and corrections. However, the government will certainly not give up its two-year budgets. Especially now that the pre-election year is in front of the door, because it is the adoption of the budget for two years in advance that allows the government to reserve the funds for the projects it wants to carry out, even though this interference is already within the purview of the future, the authorising government, which we do not yet know what it will be like. Public calls can now be made, contracts with contractors are concluded, in short, the government can spend money not only for the year to come, but for a year ahead of schedule. This will give us a new government in the second year, which will have practically binding hands in 2005, as all major projects will already be reserved in the course of implementation and money. And now, in the pre-election year, it's a very important promise. Actually, that's of great importance. Representatives of coalition parties will be able to wave projects and funds for them in Slovenia. Thus, we now have before us changes in the 2004 budget, i.e. for the budget we adopted last year, of course, on significantly higher economic growth assumptions, such as the one we are facing today. We can read from the Umar autumn report that the economic growth forecast for next year is only 3.6%, which is, of course, significantly less than 4.1, which was taken into account last year when the budget was prepared and adopted. This year's economic growth is expected to be only 2.6, which is even less than the most pessimistic forecast of 2.7 last year. Given the trend seen in a world where the recovery of the global economy is significantly slower than expected, it is feared that this assessment is not real, and that we will then be making corrections to this budget again next year. In order to achieve and maintain such economic progress, innovative and flexible enterprises need to be made, especially at the moment of transition to the common European market. The fact is that Slovenian companies are mainly in textile, leather, shoemaking and all other labour intensive industries, left to the ingenuity of their managers. Thus, at times, the radical horses of the Slovenian economy have become only cooperatives for large European companies. In Mura, for example, 80 % of production consists of manufacturing transactions for European brands. When our workers produce products for European companies, instead of developing their brands. There these companies move their processing operations to China and other Asian countries with low labour costs. This leaves thousands of workers unemployed and Slovenian companies without strategy how to proceed. Of course, there is a country that saves such bitter giants with billions of state aids, which are most often driven by these workers and only postpones businesses for a few months. This is where the failed investment policy of the country in the past decade and the government has been most visible, when the country should once help the major Slovenian industry with strategic foreign partners and programmes and in designing and preparing for new economic conditions. Then these companies would now be much stronger economically and exportably. But now we have to face the collapse of businesses and the collapse of employees. Such an economy will be difficult to achieve the desired percentages of economic growth. In presenting the changes to the 2004 budget and the 2005 budget, we were able to hear from the Prime Minister the figures that are intended for economic activities in the budgets. In 2004, funds are expected to increase by 35% and are primarily intended for competitiveness-enhancing programmes, business restructuring and the promotion of small economy development. It sounds almost beautiful, but unfortunately we think it's just going to be ringing the creek. Those companies that wanted to survive had already had to change if they wanted to remain competitive in European and global markets and maintain or increase their market share. State aid is needed primarily by companies that do not want to survive only from day to day, but see their successes mainly in new products that will only be able to prevent foreign competition from trying to push them out of this market or that market. Over the next two years, economic races are expected to rise mainly due to increased private demand for the population and investment in housing. Over the next two years, increased demand for housing, houses and other housing facilities is expected, due to the release of funds from the housing fund scheme. These funds and resources allocated by the State to investments in motorways will to a greater extent, if I may say so, be responsible for slightly greater economic growth. While on the other hand export coefficients are falling. Exports do not reach expectations in the Western European market, nor in the markets of Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. This trend is expected to continue even after 2004. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, we will only become one of the European countries and we will be subject to the same conditions as all the Member States of the European Union. This will lose the advantages we have had in the past to the markets of Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. The 2004 budget is important for one more reason: Slovenia's integration into the European Union. Slovenia is expected to contribute 45 billion to the European Treasury next year and expects more than 80. In 2005, they were expected to pay 76 billion, but they received as much as 103 billion. So it's supposed to be one of the so-called net receiving countries. That sounds very good, but it is important to point out that these 80 billion next year and 103 billion in 2005 are not entirely self-evident. They will need to be drawn from the European budget and we are not sure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to obtain all these available funds. The government says that the fear that Slovenia would be ineffective in drawing on European money is ineligible and has recorded all 80 billion alleged European money in the 2004 budget. This is also adequately designed for expenditure, but we are afraid that the expenditure will be fully realized, but not income. Whether then we will use the emergency exit again, as we have done over the years, and increase the debt, or we will elegantly resolve it with a new balance. Next year, according to government forecasts, the deficit will be 1.5%, and in 2005 it will already be 1.7% of GDP. Although the government managed to keep the deficit below a percentage of GDP this year, now it is failing. We can understand from the data that part of the deficit is cyclical and will be easier to reduce when the economy is booming. This is not supposed to happen until 2005. In view of the fact that economic growth forecasts have only been improving in a negative direction for several years and in view of the current global economic situation, it is not expected to flourish soon. Therefore, these forecasts are far too unreliable to build on them the hope of a greater increase in income in the future. And every economist knows that a cyclical deficit, as long as it does not begin to decline in a short period of time, is transformed into a structural one. The 2005 budget is on what May's feet, and we can also conclude from the government's promise after maintaining tax and health policy reform. How can we confirm a budget today if we cannot know how we will achieve the planned income? The projected health reform would also have a profound impact on the expenditure side of the budget, as the revenues due to uncertain global conditions are one way or another more in the air. Even if the government has taken health reform into account when preparing the budget, the second year of elections is when the cards are re-mixed and the White Paper may not even be adopted. In addition, a comprehensive tax reform is forecast when a number of tax laws are to fundamentally change. Taxes are one of the main sources of the state budget and it is not clear how the government could draw up a budget based on laws that have not yet been adopted and are not even aware of whether or not they will be. This just confirms our conclusion that the adoption of two-year budgets is purely a blurring of public finances and enables the play and use of budget lines. Due to the said change in the 2004 budget and the 2005 budget, we will not support the Youth Slovenia party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We will now turn to the debate of Members and Members on agenda 1st, this is about the draft amendments to the 2004 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Procedural proposal. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I thank the leadership of the National Assembly for allowing me, however, to have previously exceeded the time I had chosen. I would point out, however, that the translation service is not regulated in the National Assembly, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. In particular, I stress that the fact that we are not using it - I have not been using it for the 13th year - has probably saved this country a few times as much money as the proposed amendments to the lines for the national community by the Commission for National Communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. We will therefore now discuss individual parts of the proposal for changes to the state budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, it is considered to be a general part, a specific part and a development programme plan. We are now moving on to the general part of the draft amending budget. Anybody want a word? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to touch on the general part of the budget, because I would like to point out, although I know that nothing will help, and it is not so far, the chronic recurring story of the budget, both these countries and probably many other budgets. This is that we have a whole set of necessary projects to carry out and an ever-increasing part of the fixed budget. However, we also have major, major problems as to how to cover this country's expenditure in some way with income, especially if the revenue side is not increasing, but is shrinking or falling. And then there's the problem of how to make up for this revenue with expenditure, by not falling into too many deficits. And, of course, the government here repeats a story that has already been pointed out that it actually exaggerates some of the revenues that it already knows will not be able to realize and, on the other hand, underestimates expenditure. And it is very sad in the structure of expenditure that this fixed part of expenditure increases from year to year. The government points out, however, that there is a whole lot of investment and investment expenditure, which is then not realised at a given level, but realised at below 80%. So the problem is that the picture that we are showing with the budget is one thing, but what we're doing with the corrections and then we're finding in the final accounts is something completely different. Of course and logically, the government is optimistic that it wants to show both coalition partners and people that the country is development-oriented, and unfortunately, every time we look at and see naked numbers, it turns out differently. I think this is worth noting in particular because, both from this budget and from the 2005 budget, there is nothing in fact that would structurally change our image or image of our country to the future. I am convinced that if we continue to pursue such a policy, especially in the economic field, we will by no means be able to go in the direction that the government is devoting to, it is said, towards greater technological development, towards increasing incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises and increasing the competitiveness of Slovenian companies. I am convinced that, with some cosmetic adjustments, a percentage up or down cannot be achieved. The economic situation in Slovenia is all the more encouraging. Slovenian industrial production is only 0.2% higher in nine months this year, yet stocks are 4.2% higher. The real growth in exports is only 2.2% higher compared to the same period, with exports to the European Community being only 0.5% higher. Import growth is at a relatively high level at 5.5%. The price and cost competition of Slovenian processing activities continues to deteriorate, production in the textile industry and in the production of leather and leather products is decreasing. Total employment, measured by full-time equivalent, decreased for the first time this year after a four-year growth period, is also decreasing. I think that these indicators and many others are one important alarm and signal to the government that it structurally reaches out to the expenditure part of the budget and, of course, to carry out those reforms that it has already announced in the coalition contract and for which the Minister of Finance probably also has many more gray hair. For example, a tax reform aimed primarily at reducing labour taxation and increasing capital taxation. Unfortunately, the government and, of course, the ruling liberal democracy have been predicting this for some time. Despite the majority of the coalition in this House, the agreed deadlines are not adhered to. That is why I think and I am sure that the government is not in fact capable of bringing this through Parliament and into life, but, after all, it stresses that it is necessary to do so. I think that this is a very important conclusion before the upcoming elections, that the government has not passed the exam. She did not make a sufficient assessment of what she did at the outset and what she herself wrote in the budgetary memoranda, which she herself writes in the economic development strategies and also publicly advocates. Unfortunately, it is not the will of the government to go structurally after this most important financial document in the direction of actually challenging technological development. Look, just one case, I'll tell you what's a disgrace, a disgrace to the Slovenian government. A few days ago, a week ago in Krk, we opened an extremely important investment in the technological modernisation of the production of paper and wood, in the ecological modernisation of the factory, where the investment amounted to EUR 120 million in the last period. This is the largest investment project in Slovenia besides highways. Neither was the Secretary of State on the part of the government, except for the Minister or the Prime Minister. For such an important investment, which has been opened, our government representatives have not found time. This is the ratio of the economy, this is the attitude of the Slovenian government towards the economy and to companies that are trying to invest in the modernisation of technology and the environment. They sent the Undersecretary of State, thank God he came, but I think this is also a symbolic indicator of how the Slovenian government sees important investments by foreigners in this case and also by countries in ecology, in technological modernisation. I think it's a pity to see this government's word is one thing, an act of another. And the structural changes that would actually speak in this country's reverse trend in terms of technological development are not here. I myself will support any budget that promises and will indicate that something will change in the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, investing in technological development and increased competitiveness does not know to this extent that something would happen, I believe that if we talk about percentages this is a good thing, but when we talk about absolute numbers we know that not half of Slovenian companies can help themselves with this money. In short, of course, I will not support this budget alone, especially because it maintains a trend that is not good. This is a painless trend that keeps some status quo going, but it does not drive fast enough to catch up with the developed or the average developed in the European family of countries, chambers, of course, we do, and when we are going again next year. Of course, we support some of the government's conclusions, in particular we support a rather ambitious plan to take over the euro. Of course, we cannot support maintaining such structural features of the budget as the branches of this. Of course, such a system of overestimating revenue and underestimating expenditure cannot be supported. So there is a constant and recurring public debt and deficit, which the current Prime Minister has pointed out at the hearing and said there will be no deficit by the end of the term of office, and there will be no deficit. Today we see that this forecast is back two, three years ahead, and so it is likely to be again in two years. I think that the government, although dictated by the Liberal Democracy, is too determined in this and wants to cut too little into the structure of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Allow me to tell you how in order you will be able to speak: Mr Rokavec, Kelemina, Pece and Dr Bajuk. The word has Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I would briefly touch, in some respects, on the proposal for amending the 2004 budget. Indeed, it is clear from the material that revenue will increase by 55 billion and expenditure by 89 billion. It is said that the budget deficit will increase by 34 billion in 2004. That's one of the questions that must be in place. Indeed, when amending the budget, it would probably be appropriate to base itself on the fact that it changes only on the revenue and expenditure line, and that is the first question and dilemma ahead of me. The other is income issues. The revenue planned is mainly planned from funds or earmarked funds that will come from the European Union, says European money. Here, however, it is necessary to ask whether all institutions in the country, including ministries and at a lower level, are capable and qualified to actually arrive at planned levels in the coming year also in our country. I think there's a very big responsibility here. Responsibility because we are coming to a pre-election year where this National Assembly will in fact only be able to make decisions until the holidays. And then, of course, if there were any changed circumstances. It is said that the very responsible task of proposing that income levels can also be realised in this respect. The second question I am asked in this regard is the question of the implementation of this year's budget. In fact, why am I stressing this? I stress, on the basis of a very old practice, that almost 20 billion unpaid invoices will be moved to next year almost every year at the end of the year. If this happens this year, the budget in the implementation work in 2004 will already become somewhat disabled. And also to this question, which is repeated from year to year and which is actually a very important question and is most produced by the Ministry of Finance to its budgetary users, I would like an answer in terms of how we are prepared with the implementation of this year's budget. To avoid further burdening the items in 2004 and, on the other hand, to prevent the realisation of certain items by this new burden, which is a constant in our country's budgetary operations. The next question that I would touch on is - of course, I welcome here the very great work that has been done by the Minister of Finance in the field of deindexation, at least in some part. I believe that this is progress that needs to be given special recognition. Of course, here I believe that we have stopped halfway, that we have not yet, in particular as regards the state administration, settled everything. In fact, we can make the most of the reserves here. We can't look for reserves in the divestment of investment items, because this is the basis for development. Here I believe that we should be very sensitive, including to some of the projects we are forecasting. It is important that yesterday the Constitutional Commission is again working on a green light for the introduction of the provinces. However, it is incumbent upon the State not to produce this project, which is likely to come into force if not in the coming year 2005, after unnecessary new financial burdens. This is a major task, both in the financial, human and procedural fields, as the provinces will come to life. Finally, we will surely meet again with a very important amendment adopted yesterday by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy concerning the question of municipalities. From year to year, this National Assembly imposes new powers, new tasks, but does not allocate additional financial resources to this country. And here I think it is necessary to take at least a minimum step - we will talk about it later - in this direction, that at least a much greater gap is being compensated to the municipalities, which was achieved in those years at least in 2004. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar, will answer your questions. Here you go. But he can also answer to the word from the front.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Maybe first of all about income, expenditure and deficits. Since last year, when we submitted the draft budget for 2004 to the National Assembly, we have specifically said that the budget does not include either on the revenue or on the expenditure side of the appropriations related to the budget of the European Union. As a result of this inclusion, on the revenue and expenditure associated with the European budget, the overall volume of the budget is, of course, increasing. It is true that the European Union's revenues are increased by 88 billion and that the government is thus taking a high risk or will be able to absorb and implement in time some of the programmes set out in the budget. On the other hand, it is true that the government has tried to make the system in this area so flexible that the rights of consumption can be moved from one budgetary user to another from one project to another without restrictions, so that the project that is ready to do so can be used up to the maximum of its resources. Even with the implementation structures, I think we have done a great deal in the last year in order to be able to draw on these funds. Yesterday, a debate was also held on the Finance Committee in connection with the power of the municipality, where a large part would be involved, in particular projects related to cohesion and structural funds, in how to build individual elements that would also enable municipalities to make better use of these European budget funds. There are quite a few instruments in the budget that will help. We added one to the Finance Committee yesterday, which I think is also important and will help to do so. With regard to the deficit or the increase in the deficit, the government has also, and before that, made efforts by the Ministry of Finance not to increase this deficit in order to maintain it at the level of the initially adopted budget. However, it was necessary to consider whether to remove instruments from the budget or programmes that could boost economic growth and thus ensure everything at a better level, while at the same time not causing additional unemployment and similar negative effects, or to reduce those budget expenditure which, in fact, without legislative proposals, is the power to reduce. The government has opted for the middle road and this has resulted in an increase in the deficit. You know that the structure of the state budget, which has also been created as a result of a number of laws from this Parliament, is such that it is very inflexible. Much of the budget expenditure is very clearly defined by the resources. In the coalition debates that have taken place, and also in the government, it has been estimated that it is not possible to reduce some of the rights that could help reduce the budget deficit. Therefore, state aid programmes remain which have a direct impact on the promotion of the competitiveness of the economy and technological development, which you now consider to be insufficiently exposed and of course remain investments. With regard to the implementation of this year's budget. This year, I think it has been said several times in this National Assembly, if not at the time of the consideration of the amendment of the Law on the implementation of the budget for 2003, it is quite different from the last two years. Revenues will be realised in the budget to a greater extent than planned and therefore there is no reason to limit the payment of invoices. So that's why there won't be any transferred accounts, no unpaid accounts in the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'd like to take Mr. Kelemino's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, all together, including the representatives of the government, of course! A fundamental message from the government, says both the Prime Minister, Mr Rope, and the Minister for Finance, even today, as well as on the committees, was, as I have understood from all these discussions, that for 2004 and also, of course, forward or generally further, so that there is no more money and that it will be less and less and that there is no place to take it or redistribute it, of course, which has now been captured in revenue. This is my basic message, which, of course, I understand from this. In fact, this means that all those in a subordinate position today in terms of funding, underfunding and so on cannot expect any improvement in this area in the future, to a further deterioration. Now, of course, a person asks himself first of all who is actually the main culprit for such a financial situation in the country of Slovenia, who brought Slovenian finances to their knees. And of course, it is very simple to get an answer quickly if we look back a little bit when Mr Drnovšek, with his long-standing policy as President of the Government, Mr Gaspari, has been here for quite some time, and according to my opinion, Mr Rop, the current Prime Minister, has contributed the most. Once as Secretary of State, and then mainly as Minister of Labour in the previous government, where he must have caused huge damage through his failed pension reform to Slovenia, which is already close to 300 billion tolars due to a failed pension reform. These are such numbers that we could build two more Slovenias for this money, if necessary, if we invested it in investment maintenance or investment. Then also as Minister of Finance, where he has contributed with immeasurable tourism to the fact that we have been accredited and that we can in fact almost no longer take international credits for urgent investments in all areas and today additionally as Prime Minister with inadequate policy. Because I note from the Prime Minister's speech on the presentation of the 2004 budget or the 2004 budget opinion that he simply did not define any real priority. In all the priorities he referred to, he defined them in a general way, but to evaluate them under number one is the highest priority, two of them, three, four, five, no, all the priorities are extremely important or not at all indicated by which. It talks about the European community, the approximation of the European budget, monetary policy and so on, it puts everything in one basket and there is no priority. And it is no wonder that then there is no money in the state budget for those most urgent projects, for investment investments that are the only ones that can pull this wheel of economic development, about which we are talking so much and about the well-being of the people that somehow follows. Personally, I have said this many times - just what, when no one listens, no one has time to listen to it, let alone to take into account - is that the existing system, which is government, is necessary to reorganise, both at the level of government and at the level of the national assembly. This is the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, and no one even thinks about it. By the way, what's this all about? In addition to the fact that the government or government has no real priorities in order, number 1, 2, 3. The National Assembly, as an institution, is responsible for everything that is going on in this country. The National Assembly is the institution that can propose and adopt laws. Where does it say the laws must be proposed by the government? No, no, no, no, no! The National Assembly itself or Members may propose and then adopt and adopt such guidelines, such policies and such priorities as must be implemented by the Executive. They must also be implemented by the judicial system if they are accepted by the national assembly. The authority of the people is in this house, but it's obviously not to be felt. The National Assembly is not qualified, may or may not be able to determine the actual situation in the various areas of economic, social and financial life in that country and does not wish to act. He doesn't have any programming priorities. Show me one of the key software documents that the National Assembly has in this area! He doesn't have it. He doesn't have it. Political parties combine something in their own way, each Member does something its own way, tries to do something - a joint organisation, but we do not have a common agenda. Now, after the new leadership of the National Assembly, the President, the Vice-Presidents, we now have a very special college, very insolvent and so on, which decides on all important matters, but we do not have one common strategic document, what is important to this country and how we will lead this country forward. No, please! And we should put that up first. When Parliament is set up, it should set its strategic objectives what it will do in its four-year mandate period. Let's not do this. Why not? Ask yourself! Then ask yourself who is sitting in the National Assembly. In short, I think the criticism is perfectly justified in this area, and I hope something moves. Well, the minister said it was a responsible decision for Members. However, I wonder, and I almost have to laugh at this, that neither the Finance Minister nor the Prime Minister, nor individual ministers know what is being hidden in individual budget items, for example, for 2004. What is envisaged, no one knows, not only that this would be known by the leadership of the National Assembly or that they would know individual Members or individual Members. It's actually impossible, but I think there's a lot to be done in this area. This responsible decision that Members and Members will take today is one game to say so, because they will take something that they will not in fact know what they are taking and will not accept those urgent priorities that they would, of course, need to take. I agree that we need to think in a global way about some macro-fiscal, macro-economic, macro-economic, if you want, macro-financial indicators and other aspects, and we need to take them into account. As well as for the global budget, as a whole aspect of inflation of the budget deficit, debt, etc. These elements are self-conceived, must be within some international indicators or guidelines that have already been adopted, that is in itself reasonable and must be pursued in one way or another. It is very important that we know where we are in the global, where we are in revenue. It is not said or found, despite these findings, that the state or authority, as the largest company in that country, which also owns huge amounts of property, has huge capital, from banks, insurance companies, economic operators, public enterprises, etc., that it cannot earn more by its economic behaviour, I say, very economical behaviour than we actually deserve. But we do not earn at global level because the country is an extremely poor host and does not have the right policies in specific areas, where we would really figure out what the real situation is in the country itself, our immediate and broader environment, and how to direct our efforts to make the most of it. Let me just say, just one case, say, an electric economy case. Like, uh, Eles. We have a company that should be concerned that it knows our internal energy, capabilities and resources that we have at our disposal, and that it should also target our neighbourhood, our European community and our knowledge in this area. In this area, we have lost tens of billions of dollars in recent years and will lose much more in the future due to inadequate policies. Look what the media says now. They now note that we have a huge shortage in electricity, that we are an extremely poor country in terms of electricity production, so we are necessarily linked to imports. The national programme even notes that this imports will be around 25% and we are not in this period - surely everyone knew this data because they are doctors, masters, scientists - and could provide Slovenia with sufficient electricity to avoid net importers. And now they're predicting that we're going to have to increase the price of electricity by 10, 20, maybe even more per cent in the next year and the next year. I hope that this will not happen, but these immense possibilities could be exploited by our country. Now our neighbouring countries, from Croatia, Hungary, Italy, Austria, have closed down our entire space in this area. And we have become net importers and we will be nice from Croatia because we did not know how to build the transmission network in time, paying the high price of electricity nicely. Tens of billions could be sustained in this area if we had the right strategy if we had the right policy. And this situation is in different areas. The fact is that simple authorities are not able to look at the broadest national interests in order to ensure that the country's revenues are as high as the whole. That's definitely it. That's definitely it. There's a lot of extra capital to be made, extra money, if you're able to. So, what helps us in the final stage is all these purchases of paper and written material with different ideals, optimism, beauty, if there is no realisation, if there is no money and if there is not, the one who would make these plans come true in the final stage. So if it's not a performer, ideals, if it's not a performer of optimism and beauty. All these things are beautifully recorded in the budget memorandum, if you want, including the economic development strategy of Slovenia, including the regional development strategy, the development strategy of railway infrastructure, the development strategy of state roads, which we have been waiting for five years and we still do not have. Five years, and we don't have it yet. It's just one of them. Then the strategy of building motorways, which we are now working with as a resolution or a new project. And all these projects don't help us if we don't set priorities. The main priorities that I see to be taken into account, and I will list them, which I think are very important, such as drawing funds from the EU in the following year, where 80 billion will actually need to be absorbed, and in two years, over 100 billion. Which, of course, is still positive in view of our expenditure on the European budget. Yesterday I learned for the first time in this country that there was a secret document, a secret programme sent to Brussels, which was reportedly rejected three times, and the National Assembly has never seen what projects are listed in these documents. That's what I heard yesterday on the Finance Committee from Mr. Trofenik. Now, if that's true or not, I don't know. I would like to see this secret document, which has already been rejected three times, that the national assembly and the Members can identify it and that they can formulate an appropriate policy in this area as far as is necessary. The priority is certainly the construction of motorways, the construction of other highways, which are in an extremely catastrophic state, then the railway infrastructure, where we do not move, almost anywhere, the electricity system is certainly from the production of transmissions, protection of the environment, and the area of regional development, etc. We know the situation in this area and what assessment we have received from the European Community in this regard, then regional development. See what Mr Rop said in his presentation of the 2004 budget on regional development. The Programme for the Effective Entry into the European Union contains measures, some of which are implemented and implemented, followed by the following: "Others will be implemented after the adoption of the budget for 2004 and 2005 and third will be implemented on the basis of specifically adopted laws, strategies or government measures. This is a matter of action in various areas. In the field of economics, then regional development, under which we are preparing a law on promoting coherent regional development, which will be accompanied by a national council shortly." You can imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what a kick. Obviously, the Prime Minister does not know that we have already adopted this law in 1999 and that it is not being implemented. It's essential, it's the foundation of everything. How many times have we talked about this? And the Prime Minister, who wrote this speech to him I don't know, is not worth commenting on anymore. Then one of the most important things I've been talking about for the past seven years and one more year. I'm tired already, and you're probably tired of listening, but it's the highest priority for me, not because I'm from the countryside, I'm sure. And look what Mr. Prime Minister said about the funding of municipalities in his speech recently. [[Quote]] : "The estimates of the revenue and expenditure of the budgets of the municipalities for 2004 and 2005 shall take into account the same macroeconomic baselines as those of the national budget. On this basis, the projections of the general budgets of municipalities over the next two years show that the total revenue and expenditure of municipal budgets will increase slower than the growth of gross domestic product." Thus, in addition to all its sub-dimensions of funding in the coming years, the municipalities will grow slower than gross domestic product. The total revenue of the budgets of municipalities will thus reach around 5% of the gross domestic product over the next two years and the expenditure of the municipal budgets will be around 5.1% of the gross domestic product. In short, what I said before, we really need to be successful. Someone who will achieve all these ideals, this optimism and this kind of beauty. And how many times do I say that we can only do this at local level? And we can hire 10,000 more officials in Ljubljana, if you want, another 10,000 bureaucrats can be hired, no problem. But all these projects cannot be implemented because projects need to be implemented locally. And what should be done in this area? The municipalities should receive significantly more funding. I'm saying at least 50% more than they get today. And at the state level, it would be necessary to abolish all those small resources and small funds that have been broken down into hundreds of thousands of items, pool them into a single item and these funds to be distributed to the municipalities and tell them that you are now financed as appropriate by European criteria. Now don't go to the government anymore, or go with some special projects at the state level, but do all the tasks that are related to economic development or the acceleration of economic development, agriculture, including tourism, if you want, and other functions that already have local communities, from regulating the space and so on. In short, in local communities, I've already said a hundred times, there are enough staff, enough people, there are enough people there, and they would come if there were opportunities for development, if there were opportunities for employment and you could do everything you want from a national level centralistically directed and implemented at the local level, they did it themselves and this is significantly cheaper and significantly more successful. But you don't want to do this. You don't want to. He's a free man trying. But I don't mind red tape. In fact, each time he/she is concerned that he/she will create another, two or three new jobs next to his/her job, and that all the funds he/she has received will always increase, but not decrease. This is a fundamental message from the bureaucrat and it is also perfectly clear and I do not blame them. It is right that they do so because they need to see an ever-increasing scale of their work, otherwise they are unnecessary, irrelevant. But I resent the National Assembly, I resent the Members and Members who make it easy for them to be depressed and agree that if the Minister of Finance says that there is no money in the country and that there will be fewer and fewer, they simply accept it and say okay, if there is no money, then we can't give it to anyone anymore. No, that's not true. We have money, we need internal restructuring, we need to see what's the priority, and then we need to do what's the priority, and then we need to do what's the priority. But we do the opposite. I have to save some time for the other things, for the amendments, so I'm gonna finish this general part. In short, a lot could be changed, but this would require guidance, a strategy that the government and Parliament should have, but neither on the one hand nor on the other. I'm so sorry that we're so incompetent or we don't want to, or we can't, I don't know. This responsibility of Members and Members with regard to the adoption of the State budget is also purely ironic. Of course, I do not intend to support such a budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Before I invite Dr. Bajuk to the floor, we'd like to invite you, mag. Kamnereva, State Secretary, answer a few questions, Mr Kelemina. Mrs. Kamner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Only in relation to a special secret document. It's not a secret document. This is a single programming document sent to the National Assembly 16. 10. As one of the unfinished versions to be discussed by the Economic Committee in January.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I'm glad if it's true that the National Assembly got it. As a Member, I only find that at least he hasn't come to my office yet. So we may still have it before we decide on that law on budget implementation this afternoon. I hope it's also translated into Slovenian. I would just like to add a few thoughts to what I said on behalf of the Group of Members at the beginning of this discussion. And the red thread of all that I've had to say is that the actual credibility of the entire documentation has not yet been assured and that the data we have is another confirmation of what we've been seeing for years and that's a big gap between words and actions. I have stated with concrete information our legitimate doubts that these assumptions and plans, which are the basis of this budget, are not as credible as they might seem, precisely because we know and have already been proven, and today it has also been shown how the Slovenian government has actually planned more, and has done much less, as the deficit has increased over the years, and therefore we think that this deficit, which is now planned, is also flawed. I said, that's what we assume is going to be bigger. I've given specific examples of things that we well know should be included, but they're not. However, I will add another concrete case which is very well known to this national assembly. I'm sure you remember when I asked Mr. Prime Minister Janez Drnovšk a year ago about the fate of government contributions that should already be made to the craftsmen's pension fund under the law. On 31 December 2002, the debt of the Slovenian State amounted to 3.8 billion tolars. At the end of the year, I'm guessing over 4 billion. This duty of the Slovenian State has never been included in any budget, in no rebalancing and also for free I have sought it in this document, so, respected colleagues and colleagues, another concrete example of a debt of the Slovenian State. A concrete example for large money that is simply not included. I have again raised this issue with the current Prime Minister. He was responsible to all of us because you've all heard of some negotiation. You must remember, I said, Mr President, it is not the duty of the government to hold meetings on these matters. If the law is written down, you have no other option than to change the law or to respect it. But it's not like it's been hiding under the rug for years and years. I'm sure I'll hear it, yeah, you know what, because now we've had another meeting. We will certainly propose a new system solution in a few weeks or months. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at least part of the issue has been resolved in the courts, against the State of the Republic of Slovenia. In part, at least that part should be recognized, but it's not. Another proof of why we are skeptical in the opposition and why we must be skeptical. Because there are still cases like this. Revenues are pink-blown. I must admit that now much less than ever, at least it looks that way on the basis of the data available, but still too optimistic. However, the expenditure is hidden and the expenditure is not recognised, even though it is the duty of the Slovenian State. And we all know that. But as I said, the caravan is going in the wrong direction, now perhaps with shorter steps, but this story will end badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss the general part of the draft budget. Would you like to discuss the general part of the budget, Mr Puksic? Here you go, Mr. Puksich. Then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Rebalance or supplement to the draft budget for 2004 and 2005. It seems to me that some things are actually rather unserious, because we are dealing with important things, things, but in fact we cannot have much impact on the course of events, not from yesterday to today, but for some time now. You will recall that in each budget debate, I have drawn attention to the issue of the financing of municipalities and their obligations in relation to coherent regional development. Ever since the Minister of Finance was a magician. Mitya Gaspari, behind him mag. Robbery and now Dr. Marble, everyone in a row promised to arrive in the next financial year with a financial compensation law. There is no such thing to this day, and what is even more sad is that there is no forecast for the following year, 2005. Otherwise, such a forecast would be, in my opinion, as irrelevant as the 2005 budget, irrelevant because it will be proposed and composed of probably another coalition. I just hope that this will not be a coalition of write-offs, since then primary education may be possible, and the health care of the congregation may be wiped out for other purposes. However, if we look at the draft amendments to this budget, or also the estimates of the calculated revenue related to the compensation of buildings, there have been several recent meetings with local communities and the Ministry, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Space. First, they charged some large sums to be collected by the municipalities for the replacement of building land and, of course, on a bare average, even though one parcel or four parcels in Isola is worth more than the budget of the municipality of Desternik, which has 35 square miles [2,600 ha]. Excuse me, 2600 residents. And then, of course, replace the building land account on average for compensation in the municipality of Slovenski Goricah, or Halozah, and the average in Ljubljana and in Izola. On average, this is a number, but the difference is huge. If we just look at the tables that are ready, where an estimate of the revenue of urban municipalities for the compensation of building land is collected, we see that it gives an estimated 10 billion. For all the other 182 congregations, 8 billion and about. Other information about what you need to know and say is that there are one third of the population in these eleven municipalities or 650 000, while the other population in 182 municipalities is one million 350 000. The same information already shows that two thirds of the population collects more than 2 million less than only one third of the population in urban municipalities. Or if you take a closer look at it, more than 30%, 35% of the revenue is just from the Ljubljana Congregation, that is, from the Ljubljana City Hall. If, of course, you go further, you will find that the congregations in the periphery of these averages do not gather in one way or another. But it's okay. That's why they get so much less financial compensation. And if you go through these tables ahead, then you find at the end of the last 11th table, where the corresponding financial balance is 38 billion 700 and surpluses, income over the appropriate use of 21 billion 600. Someone's going to say, yes, a clear shot, because they're collecting together, we can't take it from them. I agree, because it's not about taking anything from anyone. But it was possible. It was made by amending the law from 30 to 35% of the income. It was given to those municipalities that have a high level of employment and a high structural level, a higher structure of employees with higher, higher education and such jobs. Parastatal institutions in rural municipalities are either small municipalities, or smaller municipalities, so there are no smaller municipalities. Of course, if the government were to do what it is talking about establishing a better regional development, it should cut these peaks and distribute them. It is unacceptable to have 145 000 per municipality in one municipality and 90 000 per capita in the other. As a percentage, 65% receives one congregation. Imagine, but of course the 90 or 94,000 is from an appropriate consumption. This means that all the legal and constitutional obligations of the congregation are covered under this heading. And there should be something else left for the investment, for what the congregation is responsible for. On the other hand, there is someone who has 40, 30, 35, 40 or 20% more. How will such low incomes get closer, or even closer, to one another? But these ranges of course only increase. Just to be a little more specific. In some such congregations, in small congregations, in the congregations of demography, not because they are smaller, but because they are in such a social environment as they are. Young people are leaving, the population is beginning to decline, and it's all accumulated in urban settlements. However, care for the elderly increases in such congregations. Even to the extent that some congregations reach from 8, 9 or even 10% of their budget so-called suitable spending. So from an appropriate consumption of 8 to 10% of the budget for payments in nursing homes, or up to 20% for payment in children's kindergartens. The fact is, this has to be admitted that since 1994, a variety of "sub-contractors" have also been transformed into a beautifully decorated kindergarten building. And children are brought into these kindergartens by parents who are unemployed in one way or another, and all the costs go to the congregation. The community, of course, has a choice to make, and such a kindergarten is closed. Many of these parents of such a child somewhere in an urban village or somewhere to which they will need a means of transport will not lead but let us tell you if this is the goal. However, in such families, these children have at least that time’s diet and are in an environment that is motivated. It is also possible to eliminate this, but is it concern for young people, is it that password "on the young world stands" and so on. It is true that only the passwords are almost never spoken of, or for a long time, but only actions. We once had, until the so-called appropriate consumption, so-called guaranteed consumption, where you gave data, so many older ones, so many driving, so many in kindergarten, so many miles of roads, so many public lighting, so many light bulbs, so much this and so on, and it was calculated on this basis. Today I ask you, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, tell me how much of the appropriate spending is that standard that we can use for education, for social, for the unemployed, for their health insurance and so on! Tell me, how much of the proper consumption do we have, or can we spend on winter work? How much for maintenance on a mile of local road? Tell me that information! I tell you myself that the budget in the municipalities cannot be done as it is set. Or, in other words, we'll have to, because if we don't, we're going to break this, that, third, and of course we're going to cry. But I'll tell you here today, we'll send home bills to the Ministry of Labour and Family, and who should we send them to? We'll send bills to the Education Ministry for the transport of children to school - who should we send them to? Will we send you to the Ministry of Finance? Maybe it would be best if we sent you all this. If you are not able, if you do not want to discuss this in the government and pour yourself some pure wine and tell us what and how, we will have no choice. Believe that this will not be an individual congregation, but then they will have to take advantage of it, because they will have no choice but to have all the congregations that fall into these frameworks — because of what is happening. It's just that things don't get carried away like that anymore. Or, if this is the way or purpose, so that you want to break up the congregations in this way, say it! It would only be fairer than dying for meals with an axe to the head, directly, and just knowing where we are. You can't tell me that 8 or 10% for the homes of the elderly, that's it. Unless, of course, there would be a lot of home in the ala Black Wood. Because then there's a short time, if that's it, that's it. I don't know. Tell me. The municipalities are now under this budget on the way to the Black Forest. It's a waiting period. When I examined the amendments, I said, look at him, the government's opinion, which says he doesn't support but a few of the following amendments. And then a man turns this over and looks, yes, the devil of an amendment from the opposition is not in there. Not one of them! Is it true that this opposition is so "foolish", so insane, so incompetent that no such amendment has been able to bring together one that is worthy of any government attention. All due to hygiene, political hygiene. Do you really think you've been given authority for the next 100 years? I'm deeply convinced that with this kind of work, it can't happen. Colleagues and colleagues! Such a proposal, I am speaking, of course, of the part concerning the local community, is being destroyed by the local community. You destroy Slovenian municipalities, but you don't realize, you don't want to realize that there are thousands of investments that are flowing and that are still running, running through the fifty-fifty system. That means, in the congregation, half the money needs to be provided by citizens, half of it will be from the budget. This is how you apply for such an invitation and, of course, try to secure that part of the funding. Of course, the second part of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, which spoke of municipalities, according to income, that projects would be financed from between 10% and 70%. This is not done by any ministry at all. There are no such invitations, colleagues and colleagues. It's not like that, but it's up to 20%, and you can't do it to anyone else. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This means that if you manage to find the 80% in some way, mostly with the help of citizens, they also give from that net personal income. [[...]] This is not taken into account in the case of income, colleagues and colleagues. That doesn't apply anywhere. Someone gives for the yacht, someone gives for the road or the plumbing. Too bad, in the budget debate, one would really like ministers to listen. Not to get caught, but everyone in the back, somewhere far back, but sometimes they'd think about it and maybe at least some people would think that some things just don't go that way anymore. Of course I won't talk about names, because it would be unfair and unfair. I talk to my fellow Members or some others, but they tell me so. You know, Franc, there's not gonna be a financial settlement law. There will be no other change in this area, because you who "rebellious" are congregations, small, scattered, and in fact you do not have one great political power. But those who do have these are large congregations, from which all political elites come. Of course, if we were to change the electoral law into a national assembly, there would be only such political elites in this national assembly, mainly from the larger municipalities, then such breakers from some Slovenian Gorica, and from Haloz and so on, who would have warned about it, of course it would not have been. Thus, of course, such a law cannot be lighted. However, you will have to realize that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana or some major Slovenian cities. In fact, we're too small to afford it. Either we go into the system, I don't know, France has huge surfaces, or some big cities, or some other countries. I would, of course, prefer the development of Slovenia through the Swiss system, where banking, economy, politics and so on is in one area. In short, divided by the country, more evenly distributed. Equally distributed is the opportunity to create, work, earn, produce, not as much as we do when we need to, if you want, everything has to happen in Ljubljana. From one small municipality, from Slovenski Goric 10 to 15 people a day emigrates to Ljubljana. That's not normal. That's not normal. It's right that you know. It's right for you to hear this, but there's going to be something you need to do about it. If nothing else, the Ministry of Finance should have something open, a few options where for such things, which give up, are easily discussed and resolved. Although I am sure that that is why we are also in the service of the nation, as it is called, both state officials and we Members, that we are solving specific problems. Well, I'm afraid I don't see that desire with public administration officials. You say, you explain, they agree with you, but then there's a wall, that's where the story ends. Think about it and I'd like an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I'll give you my word then for the debate, and I think you can talk. The replica is a correction of the incorrect indication. Mrs. Kamnereva has answered your question. If something has not been clarified clearly enough, if something is missing, you will ask her again. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! You've just proven that the government is unrepentantly right. In his opinion, colleague Kelemin cannot make the wrong statements made by the Secretary of State. I don't know where she got it from, but the fact is, he wanted to replicate it right away. And that happens all the time. In such a situation, when we have a literal dogmatic government, which is based on the dogmas that are being wasted here in the Slovenian public, and these are dogma that cannot be changed, the question is, of course, whether it is worth talking about the budget or whether it is worth talking about the budget's orientation. Here the government Members have spoken about a balanced budget and my opinion is that this budget is far from balanced. Not only does the budget deficit increase from year to year, but it is also structured incorrectly. It is structured so that it does not allow the perspective of Slovenia to allow the development of Slovenia, that it does not allow young people to be concerned about such a budget, what will happen to future generations, what will happen to our children. It is clear that the government has no solution, it has some ideas that are unrealistic, how to get the country out of public finances problems. At the same time, at the time of the presentation of the budget, the Prime Minister spoke here in this National Assembly. He cited the growth indices so high that I had a feeling and we had a lot of feeling that the main problem of the country is how to spend money. Money's too much for everything. I don't know how he calculated these indices. Today, when government representatives spoke, they did not speak so upliftingly. They were talking about the developmental disharmony, the recession in the world that is the sword of Damocles, that is hovering over us. Is this about dismembered personalities? Are there only split personalities within coalition parties? I thought you agreed to speak the same language somewhere. Today's performances show that this is not the same language and that this is part of the strategy, part of manipulation, part of the deception of the Slovenian public. If we go through some areas because I once worked on technological developments, developed new products and also developed new products, I can be most concerned about what is going on in this area. Mr Prime Minister has even spoken here about 97% of the funds that are increasing in some areas, an additional billion for technology development and so on. I am monitoring and I have the data and warnings from the scientific research area of companies that Minister Petrinova has already announced that in the second year, there will be no further funds, some funds available so far in the research area aimed at the application activity, in programmes, products, new products that have moved technological development, that this has been abolished for the next year that there are no such funds. Why is this a misunderstanding? Why is there talk in the presentations about something that has been known until the adoption of the budget that it will not be possible to realize, because this means will not be Slovenia is all year round a larger technological colony. Tell me a company in the north-eastern part of Slovenia that has established a new development department in the last 10 years, which is still working on the development of new technologies and new products. I do not know such a company in this area in the eastern part of Slovenia. I know and I can tell you a number of companies that have once been in Slovenia alone the concept of knowledge, skills and developmental orientations outside our country's borders. These engineers could successfully represent their programmes all over Europe. It is true that they often lacked investment funds, but were recognised throughout Europe. Today, this was explained by the government's policy, with the so-called policy of finding strategic partners for these companies that have been kidnapped - these strategic partners attracted by the government have mostly grabbed technologies, "knowhow" and so on, transferred them elsewhere, closed development departments and spread - and widened the perspective of young generations. Such pressures or visits from despair in sent-in offices, when young graduates ask me, and probably other Members, whether there is any possibility that they will be able to come to a traineeship - this has been experienced in the seven years of the parliamentary office. Excellent students, with recommendations from professors, with the most lucid ideas during their studies, can't get to the traineeship. But here the Prime Minister is talking about what I don't know about, I don't know what kind of developmental. Yeah, well, it's not possible to develop without people! Development without an engineer is not possible in the profession. In the field of service activities, new technologies, information society, you also need an engineer or a developmental person. Why don't they get a job or an internship if that's what you write? Similarly, a dark or unsuspecting image is in the area of regional development. I think that Mr Horvath, on behalf of his party, in the role of a government party, spoke of the last time for what everyone else is saying - to develop multiple levels of local self-government, says the region. It's like it's gonna bring something. Yesterday, however, I listened to reports of a meeting of the Finance Committee, where government mayors appeared to be withdrawing funds from the municipalities. It is not only Mr Puksic who is, of course, punished because he is the opposition mayor, but also by government MPs, government mayors. Twelve hours or so, as I've heard, you needed to review this coordinated budget. Yes, how is this budget coordinated so that the Committee on Finance, where there are acquaintances, finds so much imbalances, imbalances and so on? Let us stop this farce so that now changes in the organisation of Slovenia will bring some development. However, if you are taking, withdrawing funds from the municipalities, assigning them, as the mayors say, new functions for which no funding is provided each day. It is Cardellianism that a new organisational structure will bring a solution. This new organisational structure will require new expenditure. New expenses. However, the State is not in a position to provide for the current organisational structure. But it is true that the bohemian government here in the center is constantly more. But here you are artists from organizational solutions, funds, agencies, I don't know, one ten forms, saints, and so on, do. There's more of that every day. There's more of that every day. Do you really plan the provinces, but if every day there are new offices, new agencies, new funds, new saints? Then I'm not surprised there's such a bad situation on the income side. Look, the sale of state property. Every year we listen to the same story. However, in this area, a country with every year will suffer worse results, I do not mean quantitatively, but sells state property in a constantly more miserable way. For a permanent miserable price. Good company. An example of systemic technique when it comes to obviously organised state crime. Organised state crime. Within three months, the state sells at a low price a factory that has contracts from the state for military equipment, of which it must be a billion net income. He sells this factory for 460 million. Within three months, the new owner resold a 29 % share for more money than the country sold the whole factory. Is this the way to sell state property? I experienced myself when I was in the economy, a negative bidding of the state. Never took a bidder who offered the most, if only to exhaust the company and so on. But it had to be given to a precisely-predestined buyer, with connections at the top of the country. Because, of course, he then dedicated some money to the elections, to government parties, LDS and so on. That meeting for the government's elite interest. The state is getting closer to bankruptcy all the time. Young people are out of perspective. And look, you've adopted this legislation on deleted ones with such a scale. The provocations are spreading, and I firmly believe that what is happening in Koroška is the provocation of these forces, those who at the time opposed the independent state and now oppose the Hague war crimes court, at the same end, those who are now being provoked. I know there's gonna be a judgment coming back to spread impatience. But this is a deliberate provocation of former Ugandan and Kosovo elements.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Mr Jerovšek, please, the budget [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u56	But where did you plan for compensation, but if everyone knows, if this deleted society says that's all it does for the damages to be cashed out? Then be so honest, and in the budget, which is a basic document of the state, anticipate the funds. Go before the people I am, go before the elections in front of the people with this, show the billions that will go for this. Are you going to tell people again that they're fascist and Nazi-oriented because they're thinking about it? The Prime Minister also said how much more they would give for health care, 31% more to improve healthcare. Who gets this, the effects of these positive indices. Days ago, doctors from Maribor informed me that in Maribor ENCT is an X-ray, in the entire Maribor ENCT and because someone is struggling to obtain a concession, half a concession or 0.3 concessions I have deepened into this material. In Maribor this is not possible, the ENCT X-ray machine comes to 350 000 inhabitants for the entire region. According to plans, it would be optimal for Slovenia to be 80,000, which is said to be six times the Maribor region, or Styria region, is fed there. But Ljubljana has six. Is this Ljubljana area six times larger than the Maribor area, or are people here in Ljubljana six times more sick, have to go to X-rays six times more often, or what? Tell me, explain to me why Slovenia is so unevenly covered. And by what you do in regional development in the health field, healthcare, you do differentiation of Slovenian people. It is unheard of that the prospect of young people is only in the Ljubljana area. What social consequences does this have? What trauma, what frustration there is in the young generation. And I'm surprised the government MPs who come from that area don't talk about it here. Or they'll agree to keep it that way. Obviously, if they support this account, such a policy is supported by those Members. Look, I'm gonna end this. But I'm gonna end up with another association. Days ago, we watched a statement, a performance by Angela Merkel, the head of the opposition in the German Parliament, who commented on the work of Chancellor Schroeder's government and the completely comparable negative trends in the German economy, as they take place in Slovenia, said: "This man must be stopped. This man will destroy the country." This is not how I will identify who needs to be stopped in Slovenia. It is known, in every situation, who is objectively responsible for the state of the economy, for economic training in the country. But it is certainly necessary to stop this government, in such trends, in such a development and in such a budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you, President. I'll be much shorter. I will draw attention to what I have been pointing out all these years to the problem of financing the national communities. Look, we do, and we are boasting about it, and it's right, a model constitutionally regulated right, a legally well-ordered position, but it's all a letter on paper if we don't enable and provide in the budget a material financial basis for the exercise of these rights. From year to year, we find that the items are real and nominally lower. Few people keep that in mind. On the Nationality Commission, appropriate amendments shall be drawn up from year to year from the budget to the budget. In recent years, it has generally been such that at least something, if not all, amendments proposed by the Nationality Commission have been adopted. This time I find that the government does not support anyone, nor does the committee. None of the six or five proposed. It's not about co-financing national programmes, it's about the Ministry of Culture, it's about the Bureau of Nationality. I warn that for a relatively small amount, we are opening up the ground to major debates and major problems that will and will also be burdened by interstate relations. Unless, of course, I personally speculate here, there is already an agreement with the Italian government, which is doing the same at the expense of the Slovenian minority to reduce funds from year to year. If that's the case, it's a precise game. See, the question of national communities in particular in a country that is exemplary in showing its regulation to all international partners is, of course, consistent if it also has an appropriate conclusion. I'm afraid I don't see that conclusion here. This year, I do not know if my colleague Battelli has already spoken about this, but my colleague Maria Possonec is the worst, because all of these activities, which guarantee the Italian and Hungarian national communities the exercise of the right to their own culture, their own language, their own promotions will be suppressed, will be strongly distorted and this title will once again create a major problem of higher-a-vis, the results of the last signature, which shows that the simulation is progressing, that almost a third of the minorities are smaller in the last decade and, of course, we will not be able to boast about it. I warn once again, and I call, of course, on the National Assembly, that at least those amendments, all together, if I am not so wrong on the finger, are 170 million over the thumb, all those amendments that mean financing minority, radio and television programmes. This means for the Ministry of Culture to ensure that the basic activity in the field of culture is ensured to the minority, so back up. On the other hand, I see that we will undermine, otherwise a commendable idea of the establishment of an airport museum, a new item that is important, but see, which does not even have a higher-a-vis of the European partner as important as our model regime of minority rights. I therefore appeal again, despite the fact that the government does not support it, the Committee does not support the State Assembly to support these amendments and to finally begin to provide our national communities with a basis for existence and not for development. Look, this is the basis and condition for existence. This is the only way we will have the moral right to stand firm for what the Slovenian national community demands in our area and instead. You know Senator Miloš Budin fought for it. Unfortunately, he also failed to provide the Slovenian national community in Furlania-Julian province with the funds it owes. I therefore find once again bitter that this trend of real and nominal reductions from the budget to the budget continues to be there no shifts. It is also difficult when we meet and also as a Member, belonging to one of the two indigenous national communities, to tell European partners how well we have everything well arranged, it is difficult, of course, to defend such positions when you are faced with a situation where basic material financial conditions are not ensured for these rights to be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. A colleague of France Tsukati also has a general discussion to discuss. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. To the general work, I would kind of like to turn my back on the Minister's statement that the Ministry of Health will receive substantial new funds in the following year and in 2005. I must say that, as of 2002, the Ministry of Health will have received 13 billion in 2004, next year, and will receive 18 billion from the budget. From 12 to 18 is a pretty nice sum. I already congratulated the Minister of Health on this success on the committee. But I can't congratulate the Minister of Finance. Why? Because of these resources, I don't know what a Slovenian patient will have. I must say that the most added resources will be charged to item 4330 - quality of healthcare. Next, on the item, on the next item, allow me to turn around, and 6105 - reform of the healthcare system, first to mention the quality of healthcare. Of course, there are new funds, almost 100 million in the following year. And 108 million in 2005. And there is the establishment of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Verification, a new office, most of which will be the preparation of health standards and standards. I must say that this content, the preparation of health standards and standards, appears every year in the budget of the Ministry. Otherwise in previous items under other items, now under this item. What's this all about? These are the standards and standards that the Ministry of Health would have long had to adopt in accordance with the Health Service Act 1999 and the National Health Programme 2000 but it appears to be a justification for funding every year for this new item, but this has never been done. Next year we will have this item back in the budget, because it will certainly not be done next year. And again and again. No one checks whether the justification under which the Ministry receives the funds is really exhausted or made. Further, let me mention the second item, namely the reform of the healthcare system. Here is quite a bit, in 2002, this reform cost 350 million, and the next one will be 844 million. So every year there's a strong growth in resources for this. This is mainly a co-financing project, from the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We know what the fate of this project and this loan is. Not only will it have to be returned in full, but half of this loan has been spent on various counselling, advisory tasks offered by foreign consulting companies to the Ministry of Health, from Australian companies, Canadian, Dutch and so on. So those companies that may hardly know where Slovenia lies on the map, let alone know the Slovenian situation. And the result of these funds is probably also largely in the white book, which is why it is the same as it is. Of course, under this point it is said what will be settled from these means, the reform of the healthcare system, what everything, that is, wonderful things, of which nothing looks like, nothing, except the white book, I'm afraid. I believe that it is not enough for the Ministry of Finance to give new funds to a ministry so generously. The government should also control what happens to these funds. I believe that this is a sign of a bad master, whether it is necessary to replace the contractor or the master. Or both, I don't know. This is certainly not how a good master system works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you. I note that no one wants to discuss the general part of the budget anymore, and I conclude this debate. In the general budget, we will vote 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 2. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the draft amending budget for 2004. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] We will move to a debate on the amendments to the specific part of the draft amending budget for 2004. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 10.12.2003. You got 'em on the bench. We will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes, within the framework of the individual budgetary user, to which amendments are also tabled. I think you've got some material ahead of you. Opening the debate on the amendment with the user 1,516, Office for the Nationality of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme [[You have numbers in front of you. I won't read them.]] support to national communities. Who wants a word? We have two amendments. They're both from the Nationals Commission. Roberto Battelli signed up for it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendment proposing an increase of 50 million is intended not to co-finance programmes, but to invest in Lendava, Studio Lendava, which is being built. This investment, which has already begun, needs to be completed. If it is not completed, it becomes, as I would say, even pointless to fund programmes because they have no place to produce for the Hungarian national community. The next amendment, however, is intended for direct funding of the programmes. It is important to know that there is no agreement between the State and the public administration on how these programmes should be funded in a fixed and stable manner. Based on the fact that there's no deal, there's a certain way of saying blinding. So that the national communities do not essentially have an interlocutor to solve these problems and to ensure that these programmes exist and also the future. Because when we talk to the country, the state says that it has set up a public institution to do so, so that it does not give money and the public institution says it has no money for this co-financing. Of course, both of us and all of us have inherited a certain condition. Specifically, the Italian programmes Radio and Television Koper were - and I am not exaggerating it - actually made by Koper. And not to stress in particular the fact that this is the only place in which Italian nationals can work in their own language in addition to schools. We've been selling these programs for decades, like it's television and radio from a minority -- it's not true. That's not true. What the world for national programmes produces as conclusions within the public service system, no one takes into account. It's an empty form. The distance between words and reality is enormous in minority policy in this country. And that is what is happening with the blessing of this House. We are going to Europe - how are national communities equipped for this? I'm asking all the colleagues present.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else want a word with these amendments? Nobody. I conclude the debate on points 1 and 2 to this budgetary user. We are moving to the budgetary user, the government service of the Republic of Slovenia for European affairs, the sub-programme "coordination of activities in the EU integration process". We have an amendment, the victory of the noble deer. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. I am transferring to the budgetary user the Ministry of Finance, a sub-programme of "state obligations to STIZ". We have an amendment, a colleague of Dr. Joseph Bernick's. Anybody want a word? Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Recently, our colleague Andrej Bajuk spoke about this issue and I think it is quite clear what this is about. Here is the duty of the state to pay in pension insurance for entrepreneurs, but this thing is dragged from year to year without any progress and without an explanation of what it is and why it is not paid. It seems to me that the state should explain what it intends to do and also take measures in this direction. But how things are now, I can say, a little bit banal, that it's "the raping" of little people in our country. And I would ask the lady or someone from the Ministry of Finance to tell us why the government does not support it and what the government intends to do. I think it's about time they gave an honest answer. Otherwise, we will start asking ministers when we have the opportunity to ask questions, so that sooner or later they will get tired and give us a smart answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u65	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Who wants a word? Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. In fact, this amendment is one problem that has essentially been going on for a number of years, but at least, for example, it has been rolling through the National Assembly since we adopted the pension reform. I think some of you were there at the time, remember, you know what this is about. And with the new pension reform, we're just like this, with our left hand sweeping with more than 100 billion, etc. Today, 300 billion will soon be required from the state budget for the pension fund. This pension fund, the pension fund of the craftsmen, was not dealt with properly at the time. How many times have we been with the then minister, today's Prime Minister, both entrepreneurs, Members, etc. And we were trying to sort these things out in some way and it couldn't be done. I don't know why this doesn't actually happen if there's no way to solve this. Once and for all, it is necessary to make a final statement and not only with some promises to delay the matter indefinitely. To tell you the truth, this money is not going to happen. We're not going to co-finance this fund somehow. We're not going to train it. And there will be entrepreneurs and craftsmen and all those who have invested in this fund and who, of course, expect back their stakes in some way to know that they have lost these funds. Stop stalling, really. Tell me honestly that you will not fix this fund and that those who have invested in it should simply be wiped out under their noses. At least we'll know where we are. That's it. Tell me what's gonna happen. That's just a reminder. It's just an attempt to remind you of this problem, absolutely nothing else. We know you'll say no. Now you don't study the deadline at all, you don't even think, you don't care about 30, 50 thousand craftsmen, they don't represent anything for you in this country. No, no, no. It's just a warning. It means this thing needs to be solved, so don't save her. Tell me when this will be resolved or tell me it won't be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u67	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I will conclude the debate on this amendment. Followed by user, Slovenian Office for Slovenians in the place and in the world, sub-programme "support to Slovenians in the place and abroad". The proposer is the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. Who wants a word? Franz Puksich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In fact, I did not understand why the government did not support this; because they explained on the Commission that there was a mistake in this planning in accordance with already agreed rules and, of course, they proposed that this should be corrected in accordance with agreements between civil society organisations financed from the budget, the Slovenian Emigrant Mother, the Slovenian Society in the world and the World Slovenian Congress. In short, there is agreement on how to finance between them. So now we see that this will not be fixed, in this way another budget item is damaged if, of course, this is not harmonised. I therefore propose that we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u69	Thank you. Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was surprised to see this amendment and then to note that neither the government nor the board support it. But it is very simple, as Mr Pukšič said. A mistake was made and an agreement was not taken into account between these three civil organisations a few years ago and we stuck to it or stuck to it, the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world supported it, well, and so on, and now suddenly the government does not support it. And I'd like to know what backstage games are here. I ask the Secretary of State to explain to me what has happened here and to reconsider the position of the Government, because it is unfair to do so in such a way that the private agreement approved by the Office is not respected. And that seems to me to be some legal state absolutely unacceptable and strongly protesting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u71	Thank you. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, at the meeting of the Commission, I objected to this amendment, as opposed by the Government and the Home Committee, for a simple reason, because this amendment withdraws the funds of the Slovenian Emigrant Mathematicians. I have proposed on the committee or on the committee a better option to add these funds to the World Congress and the Slovenian Society in the world, but not on the basis of the Slovenian expatriation matrix, because in the end it is extremely small. In fact, the agreement, which was made in 1999, was concluded in the previous term, and immediately after this agreement, the Slovenian expatriate queen was in red numbers. That is why I think that we should resolve the matter in such a way as to add funds to the two other societies, but not on the basis of the Slovenian evicted matrix, as proposed by this amendment. Therefore, I also objected to this amendment on the Slovenian Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u73	Thanks, just Bevk. Who wants more? Dr. Bernick, one more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u74	All I'd say is that I know about the problems that the evicted mother has and still has, and she needs money to pay her debts and it's okay if the state supports this thing. However, it is not right for me to say that "pacta sourt" was an agreement and we must stick to this agreement unless those people who are involved in this matter agree on this matter, this would be the only fair approach to this matter and the government should respect it. And, colleague Bevk, I know he's advising a lot of nuts, and that's why I should make sure we don't get into such a breach of arrangements. Otherwise, I think this could be arranged very nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude this debate. The budget user 1912 is followed by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, the sub-programme "training and operation of the emergency intervention system". We have an amendment from the parliamentary group with the first-signed Davorin Terchoon. My friend Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, this amendment of mine is also due to the known fact that in some areas in Slovenia we have recently to deal with fires of larger proportions. Let me also mention this year and the fire in the karst area, which was to the extent that we rarely remember. In general, there is an increasing fire threat in certain areas. So there's a fire in the big area. Let me say that in order to reduce the fire threat to date, the fire department's personnel gap has also been filled by a service formed by the Ministry of Defence, which has been completed by civil service recruits working in a fire department. With the abolition of the recruitment system and the transition to the professional army, that is, this gap, which has dried up the human resources-enhanced fire service and, therefore, these possibilities for human resources completion by recruits who serve the military civil service, are no longer available. In order to replace this, the Ministry of Defence has a number of activities in progress to replace some other programmes, including by increasing the number of firefighters themselves in the fire service in the most vulnerable areas. However, it is certainly not only with these measures that we will be facing an ever-increasing fire hazard which is present and which manifests itself most in such large-scale fires as we have witnessed this year. My amendment follows this, above all. As I said, some activities to alleviate this problem are already under way at the Ministry of Defence. Subsequently to provide the necessary equipment to mitigate this fire hazard or to increase fire safety. That is why I propose an amendment of 150 million, and I redistribute the funds from the Ministry of Agriculture, including by proposing the abolition of the only agricultural attaché that the Republic of Slovenia has abroad, specifically in Belgrade, for which I do not see any real reason. I hope that Members and Members of Parliament will listen and support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u77	Thank you, Davorin Targeton. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. This amendment is followed by a sub-programme of "international cooperation". The motioner, colleague Dorian Marshich, wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am, of course, informing my colleagues that this is an amendment that will not further burden the budget and that both the Finance Committee and the Government agree with it. It is simply a redistribution of funds for the operation of the International Foundation for Humanitarian Demining and Rehabilitation of Mine Victims, which is very well known both in Slovenia and especially in the field of Eastern Europe and around the world in terms of the effectiveness of its operations. We have also reached, with the conclusion of individual committees in the past year, that the funds for the operation of this international foundation have increased slightly, that the funds are also raised from other countries contributing to their voluntary contributions, humanitarian contributions to this Foundation, in particular mine clearance in the area of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course also in Kosovo and Yugoslavia, while the activities of this international foundation are also expanding elsewhere in other areas that are not directly linked to the consequences of the war in the Balkans. As I said, it is not an additional burden on the budget, but this amendment, by which we will redeploy resources from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to a common account, together with the Ministry of Defence on the positions of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of resolution, will enable, birekel, more liquid, at the same time transparent and efficient drawing of these funds, which is known to be doublying by the budget of the United States of America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u79	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. The budget user is 1.914, the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We have an amendment to the sub-programme "training and defence system" by the first-signed Dorian Marshic, who I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u80	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This amendment will not put an additional burden on the budget either. It is simply a matter of allowing the Union of Slovenian Officers, which is a non-governmental, independent and non-political military-professional housing union, to have a stand-alone position with the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, allowing it to receive transparent funding. The fact is that these are not the only funds that this organization needs for its work, but it is important that it has its own position and thus be equal in the same possibilities of action together with the alliance of veterans of war for Slovenia, veterans of the North, the North Association and the Association of Slovenian Fighters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u81	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. The budget user is followed by 2.111, Ministry of Economy, sub-programme "programmes to promote technological development of the economy". The amendment's proposal is mag. Janez Petty Officer, who I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Nor will this amendment burden the budget, but it will significantly improve it, with a desire to eliminate the possibility of corruption created by uncontrolled granting aid to businesses just as is already happening. We propose or propose that instead of such reckless distribution of money on a political basis during the electoral year, it is intended to technologically develop businesses to be successful, which will be the best investment in the Slovenian economy. That's the key reason. The government has taken a decision under this budget to no longer provide funds to restructure the leather and textile industries that are actually in need of assistance. Then why some other companies? Is it not much better for technological development to capture the rhythm of the developed world and not to be on the list of corrupt countries or countries that in inappropriate ways allocate state money? I suggest you support this, although here I see the government and the committee say they disagree. Unfortunately, these government guidelines are wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u83	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am switching to budget user 2,311, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, sub-programme "rural development programme", proposed by amendment Alojz Sok, which I give him the floor to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Agriculture and related rural development were one of the main points in the pre-accession negotiations. Throughout this period, our negotiators have ensured that they have been well negotiated and expectations in this area are extremely high, but when I reviewed this change in the 2004 budget, I found that the government is abolishing the item in the budget, namely 174 million tolls in 2004 for early retirement of farmers. The fact is that the age structure in our agriculture is extremely poor, the average age of Slovenian farmers is over 55 years, and most European Union Member States have introduced the age-retirement measure of farmers as one of the structural measures of the common agricultural policy. This measure, to the extent that Slovenia would, of course, introduce it, is also partly financed by the Brussels Treasury. For this reason, it is incomprehensible to me that the government is now abolishing funds for this purpose. On the other hand, the Minister argues that this measure will be introduced and implemented next year, but the budget lines for the implementation of this measure are not in the budget. Where are we supposed to get the money? We have proposed that resources of 174 million tolars be provided under the heading of the Government's General Secretariat. We are seeing this item increase abnormally, increasing by almost 50% from 2002 to 2003 - if we earmarked a little less than 2 billion in 2002 and in 2003 this item already amounted to almost three billion, while at the same time the coalition agreement contains assumptions that you will be implementing the anti-biocratic programme. The measure is a force of importance, news. It is simply that agricultural land in the early retirement function is transferred faster to younger generations to increase functionality on the one hand and, on the other hand, to prevent, I would say, this concern is the growing trend of Slovenian agricultural land. Of course, as I see here, the mother labour body does not support, the government does not support, it is said, that this action will not be supported, it will not be voted, but I think we will do tremendous damage, or if the answer is that these funds are provided under another heading. However, I think that the budget should be visible, so far it has been, and with this change this item is deleted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u85	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Whenever a government official wants a word, I'll give it. The government has eight minutes left. The explanation wants to cast a mag. Helena Kamnar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u86	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that this measure is financed from the European budget, all rural development measures are rural, since this measure falls within the two budget lines of 2.068 and 2069, rural development. One part is European funds, the other part is own resources. And the funds for this measure are provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u87	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on this amendment. Within the same budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food, there are several amendments. We'll go through individual subroutines. And it follows a subroutine of services and public institutions. The amendment's proposal is Davorin Targeton. He wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say that with regard to this amendment I would also like to hear the position that one of the ministries of agriculture, forestry and nutrition would also be present. That is to say, we have written in our review of the amendments that the Government does not support this amendment, but it would still be very welcome to have the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, and given that it also applies, part of the amendment, to the Ministry of Culture to hear their position. Now, a few explanations for the amendment. With my amendment, I am increasing budget expenditure for the needs of the public office Kobilarn Lipica. There have been quite a few public debates about the situation and the desire in Kobilna Lipica. I feel that this situation is bad and embarrassing to this country. Although everyone, especially the most responsible from the Ministry of Agriculture, is devoting themselves to this symbol and pride, there is no improvement in the situation. More. In my opinion, and according to many estimates, it's getting worse. There was a lot of debate. Some also had different political connotations. Since I come from the congregation where Kobilna Lipica is located, I feel even more responsible for doing something to make things better. The most responsible is the country and the one that represents it. That is why I have tried various proposals for regulatory changes, which have been stuck in various coalition coordinations. For I myself have assessed that such a regulatory change is necessary - many, some ministries - have also agreed on this as measures in the public office itself. I'm afraid we haven't reached agreement yet. But the situation is as bad as I said it would be, even in disgrace. In the debate on possible changes that could go in different directions, as I have pointed out, we have stumbled on, usually, the most resistance to normative changes right in the Ministry of Agriculture. Minister Booth also explicitly - at the last round table in Lipica - said that changes were not necessary and that it was possible to regulate the situation within the Kobilna Lipica Act. Not so explicitly, however, the Ministry of Culture also attracted this. And these two ministries are most responsible for this. Although by law the cobalt should be under the authority of the Ministry of Culture, because it is a cultural monument, it is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture under some agreement within the government. Apparently, all of them have very little to worry about. Given that there is no agreement on normative changes and that the Ministry of Agriculture claims that the law was okay, I drafted amendments in the framework of a law that took place after seven years, rather than after six months as stated in the law, gave birth to a programme of protection and development, which was adopted only at the beginning of this year, because I found that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Culture did not comply with the obligations of the law and the programme of protection and development, which they themselves confirmed and gave consent to and which they claim to be okay, but did not fulfil their obligations. So I drafted the amendment myself and listened to the possibility that we might do something under this law. That is why I must say that I would also expect these two ministries to support this amendment and to provide this public institution, which has some Slovenian pride, which is not pride, but shame that those responsible for this situation would begin to think and act. Because they didn't do anything, I tried to help them myself. I expect that they will continue to support this and that, on the basis of this amendment, things will start to change. If not, they will only prove that they are not able to manage this monument and herd, prove their incompetence and increase our shame, for which I and my colleagues are not guilty here and for which they will also attribute their share of the blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u89	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. Who else wants a word? Just Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to speak with you about the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Mr Davorin Terchón. Let me say immediately in the introduction that I do not oppose the intention of the amendment, which allocates additional resources to the public office of Kobalna Lipica than is necessary. The problem is that this amendment would reduce funds under the heading "cultural tolar monuments". One year ago, the National Assembly passed the Cultural Tolar Act for the period 2004 to 2008. It is the continuation of a law whose validity expires at the end of this year. We have only achieved 36.3% of the old law, and according to the 2004 and 2005 budgets, we have only 25% of the funds available on all five programming sets of the new Cultural Tolar Act. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture, the biggest shortfall in resources is precisely those items arising from the legal obligations assumed by our National Assembly. In addition to the Cultural Tolar Act, the Law on Media and the Law on Librarianism appear here. In January 2004, we will consider a national cultural programme in the National Assembly for the next five years, which is highly ambitious for which the Ministry of Culture certainly deserves all praise, but without adequate financial support it will certainly not be fully realized. Culture and cultural identity are also part of the programme for effective entry into the European Union adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, from 1 May 2004, from Slovenia's entry into the European Union, culture will depend solely on us because it remains the exclusive competence of the country. This is why the importance of culture and cultural identity, which has already played an outstanding role throughout history, will increase with Slovenia's entry into the European Union. It is precisely for these reasons that I have stated that I cannot support an amendment that reduces the resources for culture in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u91	Thank you. Comrade Aloys Sok gets the word, then Davorin Terchon.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u92	Thank you very much. As I follow this event with regard to Lipica, I must say that as a citizen I am extremely concerned and, of course, I would like to know first from the ruling coalition what you really want to achieve with Lipica, or you will divide it, break it down, what you are proposing in the LDS, or you will preserve Lipica as a cultural monument, united as it is today. That's the basic problem. When you resolve this dilemma, of course you will also be able to continue to provide funds for the functioning of Lipica itself. But as it now seems of course, Mr Terchoon, you do not want to resolve this basic dilemma regarding Lipica and, of course, you agree more with Lipica as such to divide, destroy, break or express herself.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u93	Thank you. Davorin Targeton has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u94	I need to correct the allegations, no matter how much I've been mentioned. So, indeed, I expected that this fear expressed by Comrade Bevk would be present, but what would happen to other cultural monuments if we took it. But the truth is, I can take it there with those who are responsible and who, by law and programme of protection and development, would be obliged to provide these funds to this public institution, which they support. And because they're not, because they're responsible, I think they're also guilty of a situation that is because we should at least suggest something. But if they agree to do so, then let them tell me why they did not provide these funds themselves. Then all I can suggest is that these same ones, which should already be taken into account, should be provided to the Ministry of Agriculture in the first place, as well as to the work of the Ministry of Culture, with these funds going through the law. If not, let them offer another solution for God's sake. I offered them, but there was never any willingness. However, I always stress that we can look for new solutions, there was no willingness to do anything. No, the campaign started, how someone wants to privatize something, rob something, and no one wonders what's going on there. And there's a scandal going on. There's a scandal going on and someone's responsible. And whoever's responsible is also responsible for this situation. I have to say that I'm going to keep asking this question out again until one day there's one solution. But the solution is many, and I am willing to listen to many of these solutions and try to arrange them. This situation is a disaster. And I suggest that funds be taken only where they can be taken, but those who are responsible for this situation and who themselves would be obliged to do so have not done so.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u95	Thank you. I can't see anymore. Also a colleague of Bevk's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Vomiting responsibility in just two ministries, I don't think it's right. After all, the government is the one that established this institution, and I would say that this responsibility is more evenly shared by the collective, so I do not agree with Mr Tarchoon. At times, however, Members and Members of Parliament are also making amendments to the budgets to draw attention to a problem. That is how Comrade Terchoon, now of course, drew attention to the problem of the public institution of Lipica, and I had pointed out earlier about this amendment to the position of culture in the state budget. Although we probably don't expect either of us to accept the amendments that we are Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u97	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I conclude the debate on this amendment. Followed by the sub-programme "health care of plants and animals". I am putting the amendment tabled by my colleague, Aloise Sok, to this sub-programme. Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much. When I examined it, I found that no funds were foreseen in the budget on this item. It is that under the conditions of globalisation we can count on other new diseases to occur in the Republic of Slovenia, as last year's carrion appears. To date, relatively few microbes have been known to cause different disease conditions both in plants and in animals, and certain resources need to be provided in this context. The proposal before us does not show where these funds are supposed to be, nor does it show where the funds for the retirement of farmers should be. Although Mrs Kamnareva assured me earlier that this is in one of the items, but I am sure that, given such piles of materials as we receive for this budget - for example, there is an entire budget there, colleague Bernik - so much of this material and so poorly transparent that then some measure is wrapped in another item, it can mean that this matter will be carried out or not. However, if we made it clear in the budget itself, the item is for this, then this would be transparent and transparent. However, since this government is not concerned with transparency and transparency, these precise items are abolished and presented under some broader projects, some broader programmes, which are then either implemented or not. Where should we take the funds - we have proposed a slight reduction in the resources for the operation of the Office of the President of the Republic. We can see that from 2001 to 2004, these funds increased by as much as 100%, from half a billion to almost one billion. We are confident that 100 million dollars in this programme could be allocated to the programme of plant and animal health. I'm warning you again, this case is going to be very hot. The damage caused can be great, and if there is no provision under the budget, the damage can happen to us. Nor does the government support this amendment - too bad because it will sooner or later face the need to provide funds for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u99	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving to the sub-programme "expert and advisory tasks, education and research". This is also where Aloise Sok's colleague tabled the amendment. He wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u100	There was a lot of talk today about Slovenia having to invest much more in science. I myself find that resources for scientific research in agriculture are shrinking from year to year. This budget change also reduces by about 13 million. This is not much, but if you are permanently reducing such a small amount of funds, of course they are even smaller. As for Slovenian agriculture and agriculture-related food and manufacturing industries, of course, this will meet with great competition after Slovenia's entry into the European Union, and if we do not increase resources in scientific projects in this area, where things are changing very quickly, the progress of scientific research in this area is very fast, then of course it is difficult for me to imagine that Slovenia could not compete with this market, even though we will, I don't know, arrange various expensive presentations in Rome or elsewhere. So, scientific research work, if we want to make progress, we need to accelerate and develop at home. At this point, however, the funds are extremely stingy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u101	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this amendment. The sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions follows. The LDS sent an amendment to this subroutine. Anybody want a word? Comrade Janez Komljanec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! Last year we had to provide an amendment to the public forestry service, I think 350 million. It seems that this service does not end on a calendar year in budget 31.12. Therefore, we also propose that workers may have personal incomes and basic material costs, which means paper, pencil, heating and everything else that belongs to them for 2004, and later for 2005, so that I will not advertise anymore, provide the resources needed to operate normally by the end of the calendar year 2004 and of course 2005 as well. When I said last year, I was talking about 2003 and I'm sorry. I am confident that in these two years it will no longer be necessary to repay and thus no more increase in these costs, and that at the Ministry responsible for the public forestry service, everything that is not regulated will also be regulated and that this service will continue to be organised and act as it should be in the development programme. And, of course, that they will also have enough resources for this programme, with enough to think as much as is necessary in this so-directed programme, they will appear to be an inconvenient and debilitating life, as all budgetary users must behave. I regret that we are reducing funds on the ECO 0 programme, but also on the Committee we have proposed that the Ministry propose a more appropriate item. However, I think that ZIPRO allows the government and this ministry to find this money elsewhere if it is more appropriate. This does not seem to be the most appropriate thing right now, but it is only possible, as we have suggested for 2003 where these funds should be taken. So I would like this problem to be resolved in the future and it would not be necessary to intervene with the National Assembly in order for a service to function normally by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u103	Thank you. Nobody wants to talk anymore? I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am moving on to the last sub-programme with which the amendments are tabled, which is a programme for the development of fisheries. We have two amendments, the first one submitted by colleague Aloise Sok, the second Mario Gasparini. Anybody want a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The amendments we tabled with Mr Gasparini are somehow the same. We, with this correction, are reducing the 2004 budget for fisheries subsidies. At the same time, we can read in the media that our fishing vessels are being sold and that currently the Slovenian fishing fleet is being asked if it can still operate or run for fishing concessions. That's one reason. The second reason is that if Slovenia wanted to resist the introduction of an economic zone by the neighbouring country of the Republic of Croatia, it would, of course, be the easiest and best to resist in such a way as to invest more in the economic activity of fishing itself. Unfortunately, we find that the government does not see this problem in such a way and that the money for the fisheries themselves reduces and, on the other hand, increases the money for the operation of the public institution in this area, thus increases red tape and does nothing directly to invest in fishing vessels. That is why we have proposed this amendment and therefore only propose the allocation of funds within the same heading, i.e. the same sub-programme. While a colleague of Gasparini proposes to increase these subsidies for fisheries subsidies in order to reduce the resources for the prescribed preventive animal health care, this is the measure which governs veterinary activities. So, of course, this is inappropriate, because the programme, the prevention programme in the veterinary field, is absolutely prescribed. And if we reduce resources from the state budget for this purpose, that means that we transferred the cost simultaneously to the users. Users, of course, are also in some segment, in some part those who have aquaculture farms that grow fish are also being carried out in accordance with preventive measures and will, therefore, if this amendment of Mr Gasprini is to be implemented, have to pay in the future. Therefore, it would make sense to make a reallocation within this sub-programme or possibly to find funds to increase fisheries subsidies under another budget item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? I think there was a debate on both amendments, so I conclude. This concludes the area of agriculture, forestry and nutrition. We are transferring to the budget user 2,411, the Ministry of Transport. The amendment to the sub-programme "restructives for highway construction" was tabled by colleague Alojz Sok. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u106	Today there has been a lot of talk about the construction of the Slovenian road cross, about the construction of motorways. We note that in the manner envisaged by the government, when it somehow brings forward the commitments of future investment to the new Dars, these funds will be extremely questionable through the issuance of bonds, as anticipated by the new way of financing the construction of Slovenian motorways. The government expects to finance up to 45% of all the funds it needs to build Slovenian motorways in future through bonds. I have to say, bonds aren't really some new invention. Bonds are a way that was introduced by some municipalities ten years ago - I know specifically about our municipality - but at the end of the extremely expensive bonding project, not even half of them were implemented. In particular, I can say that we issued bonds for 5 million, but it later turned out that investors who accepted part of the bonds in their work also accepted part of the obligation, that they usually set higher prices for some work, and that on the other hand, they were running out of funds so that those bonds could be used at all. It is true, however, that the introduction of the bonds itself was extremely costly. Thus, we do not have much confidence in this way of financing the construction of the future road cross, nor do we expect this programme to be implemented in this way. We therefore propose that higher funding be provided under the existing budget by allocating resources within the possibilities we have. These options seem to us in the field of tax and customs administration. We assume that by abolishing the good part of Slovenian borders, the establishment of the Schengen border in this area will result in the release of certain funds and that under the budget the resources foreseen for the tax and customs administration at this time will be too large and could therefore redirect them to the area of the construction of Slovenian motorways. Sorry, there's no explanation. If this is true, the government and the parent working body of this amendment do not support it, perhaps the representatives of the Ministry of Finance here will answer why the resources for the tax and customs administration are planned even higher than they were in the past years, when we had so many and so many borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u107	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. Would you like a representative of the government? Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u108	Why are these funds planned to be higher for the tax and customs authorities? In fact, this was actually imposed on the tax administration in particular by the Committee on Finance in relation to the discussion on the functioning of the tax administration. The problem is that these records are not centralised, but that they are particularly bookkeeping records and that the information system needs to be developed in such a way that a single bookkeeping is for all areas of tax administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u109	Thank you, Minister of Finance. I conclude the debate on this amendment. Sub-programme ‘investment activities on railway infrastructure’ follows. We have an amendment of the parent's working body, the Finance Committee and monetary policy. Anybody want a word about him? Nobody. I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving to the budget user 2,415 - Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads". We have more amendments. The first was submitted by a colleague Alojz Sok, second colleague Branko Kelemin, third magician. Little John, the fourth Rudolf Petan, the fifth Joza Tanko, the sixth Magi. Little guy, 7th Marko Diaci. I'm opening a debate on these amendments. Who wants a word? First Rudolf Petan, so I saw, then Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It is therefore a transfer of funds from the tax administration to the direction of the Republic of Slovenia for roads. Why do you have a transfer like that? I'll say it in the last sentence at the end. The fact is that we are proposing an amendment for the construction of the Vitanje Oblast, which is on the main link between Celje and Zasavje with Koroška and in recent times this area with the tourist centre on Rogli. It's the closest link to Rogla. What Rogla means for the development of tourism and for the tourism economy of Slovenia, there is probably no need to lose words. However, the fact is that this is also the fastest link to the regions mentioned and it must be said that the road is reconstructed, expanded and probably a long-term solution from Vitanja to Lower Dolic. By Vitaly of the New Church, of course, this is a narrow throat. And Vitanje as a historically protected area where no demolition of houses is possible, so in this area where this village was built at the time when there was no traffic, the road remained as wide as possible, because enlargement is not possible because buildings are not broken down because it is protected. And this is particularly critical for school-bound children. And to make the situation even worse, the school is at one end of the village, so that children have to walk through the entire village on this traffic. It's almost impossible to meet two vehicles. And since part of this road is already reconstructed, it means it is important for Slovenia and the Slovenian economy. The funds, 50 million, would be taken from the tax administration, for a simple reason, because the tax administration is the one that does not formally recover from the debtors over 100 billion - let's say that there is a real half of this - that is to say, if we take one pass from these possible recoverable assets, we would build the bonds, and I think it would also be instructive for the one who does not perform his tasks if this amendment were accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u111	Thank you. Just like I wrote in line, mag. A trifle, then Branko Kelemina and Marko Diaci. Please, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u112	I'll tell you very briefly. Two months ago, mayors gathered from the entire end of the Ribnik-Kočev region, and representatives of the Ministry promised that the Škofljica issue would be arranged so that the appropriate four-way between Škofljica and Ljubljana would not be stopped. Also, this rehabilitation that is now being carried out at this intersection will not solve the problems, because it remains a crossroads at the same level as the railway. Therefore, it is the amendment to initiate the four-passenger route on this neurological point and the overpass over the railway. In short, just as it should be in Slovenia and as the ministry has somehow promised. I was amazed to see that there was no such amendment. So one is the words to the mayors there, and the other is the actual situation in Parliament or in the government. This is, of course, the greatest measure of duality. However, the funds are to be provided from the restructuring of enterprises, which is what is intended for a rather problematic activity, which we are also reminded of in the European Union, and the activities of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, where the funds increase from one year to the next by 57%, which, in our opinion, is inappropriate. So I propose that both amendments be accepted, not as the government says, but in double terms, one for the people and the other for the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u113	Thank you. Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u114	Thank you. Your Honor! This is a project that we have been pushing and digging through the procedure for several years, and we have been successful in this process only as a unitary one so far. Apparently, the project is stopping, but we're barely a third. I have repeatedly pointed out this, even on all the working bodies so far, wherever this has been dealt with, both on infrastructure and on finance and with extensive documentation, even with photographs and with the strategic documents of local institutions, I have demonstrated that some project is not yet at this stage so far as it needs to be defended. However, this project is necessary, which I myself propose, and because of the damage caused daily by vehicles and the damage caused by delaying the implementation of this project, it would be even more necessary to complete this project as soon as possible. So, with all the arguments, with all the documents that I have brought to both the Infrastructure Committee and the Finance Committee, I have proved that I am right and that in some ten-minute debate, so to speak. Since the government doesn't believe my arguments and my arguments, calls the bureaucrat from some department, the bureaucrat comes in and says with just one sentence: this project is justified and necessary, so, of course, it should stay the way it is. You can imagine, fellow Members, some ignorance towards a Member who has arguments that have documents that have everything, and one bureaucrat rejects it with one sentence. But what is the worst irony, but what is it that the Members possess this, and what is the attitude of the Members? We're really so committed to each other in the decision-making process - why, I don't know - really, I don't know what else to do with each other, that we prefer to believe one bureaucrat who, with one sentence, without arguments, without saying anything, says that something is justified; but I, with documents, images, strong arguments, reasoning and proof that it is the other - and you don't believe me. This is absurd, and it is no wonder that in this country it is so that bureaucracy can decide. Where do I get these funds from? At the moment, I took them from the National Assembly: 100 million tolars to reduce material costs. You know what, given all the irresponsibility, of course, to Mr Minister, he has called on Members to be responsible for the decision on the budget, and all the irresponsibility that this National Assembly expresses in the adoption of the budget, the document as a whole, and all the other documents that we accept in this country, I estimate that we could take more money from the National Assembly. At the end of this stage, we could stop it and tell you that our citizens in this country would not be doing anything worse, perhaps even better, but at least we would know who is responsible for all the decisions in this country. That is how all responsibility flies to the National Assembly, to Members, who do not, in fact, decide on anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u115	Thank you. Marko Diaci has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. This is a presentation of three million tolars under the same sub-programme under the same sub-programme, and I would like to support the development of projects for one of the main transport links in Kozian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u117	And my friend Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u118	Thank you very much. See, all these amendments have a basic intention of increasing investment funds for road maintenance and construction, which is understandable, and we have discussed this a lot. And I would like to draw your attention to something else that seems extremely controversial to me when I also pointed out where these funds should be taken. Look, for the road infrastructure administration - I say this for the third time since I've been in Parliament - we've been constantly increasing funds. Thus, the 2002 administration increased by 12% and 10% from 2003 to 2004. And it is not logical, it is not clear that on the one hand we are increasing funds for bureaucracy through recognised inflation, while resources for self-sustainment and infrastructure building are declining. How is this possible, however, that we are increasingly giving for administration and on the other hand we are yelling at road programmes themselves. This is also what I wanted to point out with this amendment, and since the Minister is here, I remind him to be careful about this and to try to reduce funds at the expense of a rich administration in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the 7 amendments that have been tabled for investment maintenance and construction of state roads? Because no, I am closing the debate on this sub-programme. We are moving on to a discussion on the budgetary user of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the sub-programme "planning, water protection and water management".Anton Butolen has tabled an amendment to this sub-programme and wants to discuss it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. In this National Assembly, we are adopting full guidance and development programmes. In fact, the moment of truth is when we have to present the budget and the budget actually shows what a real priority is. On page 78 of Rapporteur 84, we write that we will provide direct regional incentives among the development measures of the least developed regions, taking into account the following criteria: co-financing those priorities in the region that are particularly important for the development of the regions but will not receive support under the horizontal policies of the second pillar. Secondly, they will not receive support under the horizontal policies of other sources. Cross-border economic integration, implementation of the INTERRET initiative [[?]] co-financing of specific development projects related to addressing the negative effects of the Schengen border, priority addressing water supply, drainage, cleaning, municipal and waste water in Pomurje, White Krajina, Lower Podravje. It is literally written in this way, which is why I was so surprised when this item was not sufficiently covered in the budget. Of course, I would not go into the matter of why the government has decided to devote or display part of this money or otherwise to water resources. I don't want to debate that. However, there was insufficient resources in the water fund for this programme, which is, however, a priority programme of the government or an effective entry into the European Union if we believe in the document that we have adopted together, especially those in the government coalition. That is why, of course, I was forced to warn the government about this and somehow we found that the facts are actually such. The amendment that the government supports was ready. I was particularly surprised by the difference or the debate that was on the committee - although I could not follow the whole debate, I see a report on where the dilemmas were in particular. It has been said that such modest resources are being reduced to accelerate development and to bring the poorest regions closer to the other regions. We're in the poorest region, and we're not taking anything from anyone. That's the first time. Secondly, these funds will go towards the implementation of the regional programme for Podravje. However, we know that we do not have a regional development programme adopted in Podravje. Why we don't have it, it would be too long a story to explain here. And because we don't have it, then these funds aren't taken, they just define what's going to happen to them in the same region. We are part of this region and this is the poorest part of this region. This needs to be made clear. At the same time, I must say that in 2002 we did not get any of these congregations from this program. However, those who are above or above the national average have been picked up. Well, they're not even touched. If this is how we are going to develop regionally, and then we are still wondering what is going on in finance, then of course we will not come anywhere, and we will never consciously say that we will not have a regional programme in the Podravje. As long as they say they want to have direct incentives on the head of the population, then this is not regional development. Then we can put it into proper use, balance it, end the regional agencies and resolve the matter. Well, of course, we don't take anything from anyone else. It was warned that the municipalities should prepare the documentation themselves. All these municipalities have documentation for this - Halo municipalities. Not only do they have this revised because they applied with it to Phar's funds, and if the documentation is suitable for international files, it will be suitable for us. It is true that 50 million for Pomurje are not, because for preparation, they cannot draw the funds from the Cohesion Fund themselves, at least that is my conduct and that is why the state must prepare it and we cannot here report to these municipalities in Pomurje that this programme is not financed alone. Of course, I am not starting to see why this is not a special item, why it is in the water frame, why it is not as we have an item in the budget for the White Land, why it is not the same as in the budget item for the water supply of the Coast. We would also like to be as financed as the coast. The richest part of Slovenia will be financed 90% and 10% of the municipality. We will finance them if this amendment is adopted, with 70%, 30% of the congregation. And of course, I strongly reject any such concern or debate that has been triggered there, but at the very least the obvious that it is obvious localism. That's another thing. To say that, of course, this resource should not be taken from regional development and given to someone else. They'll still go for regional development! I read once again what we have adopted in the programme for effective entry into the European Union. It has provided direct regional incentives for the development of the least developed regions, taking into account the following priority criteria. Everything else you have put into regional incentives is illegal or, I will not say illegal, does not comply with the priority programme prepared by this government and supported by this coalition. This programme shall be in accordance with this priority order. I would therefore like this to be no longer discussed for a long time, that this amendment should be supported by government Members; the opposition will do so because they are always advocating more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u121	Thank you, colleague Butolen. You still want a word? Branko Kelemina. May I have your attention, please? Branko Kelemina has the floor and then colleague Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u122	Thank you very much. There's only a little time left, and I'd like to say it for a moment. Look, ladies and gentlemen! If anyone, then I certainly have been very much committed to more coherent regional development, all these years since we passed the law. You're the only one sleeping, some, on this program. Now this program that we have, or that the government has sent to Brussels or is still coordinating with Brussels, has come along a strange path. Even what the secretary said before is not true. In fact, this was a secret document, which is unattainable for some Members, and this is the responsibility of the leadership of the National Assembly or those Members who have received this have not been further divided. Our Group of Members did not receive this document. I got it right now on one line, in an English copy, so you're actually having a hard time helping him with something. But what you are now demanding is that a project that you have failed to put into some other project that the local community or the region or the government should propose to the European Community, if it is to be financed in this way, is now breaking the rules that have been somehow laid down. You want to come across with some project into the programme or into the state budget, and this is unacceptable. That's unacceptable! We would all like to have certain resources, and we would all like to implement our programmes at the regional level on the basis of the programmes adopted, but we cannot, because there is no money. And in this way, it is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, to come up with additional funds now or with an amendment through order to the state budget. I hope that you will soon ask the government to come with a new law on more coherent regional development, which it has already promised so many times and has been spoken of by the Prime Minister, who has found that the government will send it. He doesn't even know we already have a law like this, just so it doesn't come true. That's the problem. No one is interested in very important segments, including the economic development and development of Slovenia as a whole, and more consistent regional development is certainly the case. However, in order to be able to give money also - to put an end to more coherent regional development - let us stop a number of services that I previously talked about and small bureaucrats at the national level and give at least 50% of the funds to more local communities than they now receive, the local communities will organise all of this and will organise and also organise large inter-national, inter-regional, regional and regional projects to report and support these projects in the European space. Members did not participate in the preparation of this project for the European Community's Structural Cohesion Funds; we did not participate. I don't know if local communities were involved, I don't know how much regional agencies were involved. There we should ask ourselves, Mr Butolen, how these things will be handled, not here through the state budget through order. However, I will not support such an amendment, irrespective of all my principles regarding the promotion of more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u123	Thank you. My friend Aloise Sok, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u124	It is very nice that Mr Butolen is counting on the help of members of the opposition if it is already cancelled. However, I would like to say that such an amendment to increase the water fund is, of course, not introduced for the first time. Such an amendment has already been tabled by Members Petan, Jerovšek in the previous term, and has already been tabled twice or three times in this mandate, namely the former Mayor of the Majšperk municipality, Mr Bezjak, has repeatedly appealed for funds to be increased for these purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u125	I will now give my word to the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez Kopach, who wanted to talk and then Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Look, there are only two years of water funds, so there have been no strong amendments in the past. According to the Water Act, the government also co-finances the main water pipelines. And in the 2004 and 2005 Water Fund programme we have the provision of water accumulation Padež, i.e. the comprehensive water supply arrangements of the Slovenian Coast and Istria. The amendment proposed by Member Butolen and supported by the government also foresees the government's commitment to the construction of a regional or main water pipeline in Haloza, the government's participation in the construction of a regional water pipeline in Koroška and the government's participation in the preparation of project documentation for the regional water pipeline in Gorička or Prekmurje. As far as Prekmurje is concerned, I must say that the Prekmur municipalities wanted to prepare project documentation in order to be able to run for cohesion fund funds at all. They can't even do that. In short, even tickets for competition in Brussels cannot be bought because they do not have these capabilities. That is why the government supports this amendment, which foresees that the government enters and prepares project documentation so that these municipalities can compete in Brussels at all. However, as far as the White Land is concerned, this is the last area where this is regionally unregulated, I must say that as a government we have already run with the Belarusian regional water pipeline in Brussels, and we have roughly already received funding. From the Cohesion Fund for the White Rajina for 2005 - a million 300 000 euros, for 2006 - a million 700 thousand, for 2007 - a million 800, 2008 - a million 700. Then there is the state budget, a total of approximately €2 million and a half, and together there are some more than €1 million. Thus all these water-deficit and water-deficit areas in Slovenia are, in principle, now with a water fund programme, plus the combination of this application to draw funds from the cohesion fund, regulated. Well, I don't think there can be any dilemma at all, and that everyone who wants to get to water on Gorički will ever get to drinking water in Haloz, of course, this amendment will be supported. And - this is important - an amendment also needs to be supported, which increases the resources of the water fund in the law on the implementation of the budget. This amendment was not supported by the Finance Committee yesterday. Without that amendment, this one remains irrelevant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u127	Thank you, Minister. Anton Butolen has a word first, then Dorian Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u128	I'd like to apologize first. I seem to have misunderstood the water supply situation on the Coast, that it is only a matter of providing resources, and I am withdrawing that statement. That's another thing. I'd answer Mr. Kelemini, and I'd ask if you'd listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u129	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u130	With regard to what Mr Kelemina has been saying to me, I would say that it is not really to the detriment of others, as he has just debated. In order to implement the regional programme for Podravje, certain appropriations are allocated to the budget. And because these funds are not allocated because we do not have a regional programme adopted, as other regions have, a certain amount, 150 million, is defined here, and is transferred to the water fund. It's not about anything else. It is said that this will not affect any other statistical region, but we belong to Podravje, so that part of these funds can be ours in any way; after all, Haloz is the least developed part of this Podravja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u131	Thank you. My friend Dorian Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. I'm glad that colleague Butolen corrected his statement, because what he said is not true. The fact is that the people of Slovenian Istria have financed our own water supply, and this is by expensive payment of international credit, and thank God it will soon expire. I am pleased, however, that resources have been identified in the water fund to determine the water source to which the State has jurisdiction to determine this resource. Because in Slovenia we will soon face a great problem, that if we do not have it arranged, contracts with Croatia, as far as water supply is concerned, will soon expire - and the drought will.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. A colleague of Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased that today, Mr Butolen, as rapporteur for the amendment, explained that so many objections to consistent regional development and perceptions, as was heard yesterday on the Committee on Finance - not primarily by the opposition to this amendment - were indeed not in favour of knowing the need for coherent regional development. It is also necessary to say in this part, mentioned by the Minister, that the increase of the water fund in the item, i.e. in the law on the implementation of the budget, solves the extremely pressing issue of the regional water source in the municipality of Črna na Koroškem in connection with the municipality of Mežica. It is probably clear to all of you that it was not until last year that a study was presented on the basis of the co-financing of the three ministries, namely a comparative study of environmental pollution in the Upper Mežiški Valley between the conditions in 1989 and 2001. In this study, many things have been identified, the most important which I would like to stress to the patient, but the results in drinking water have shown that the amount of lead, zinc and cadmium in the water source provided by this region is so high that it is absolutely necessary to find a new water source. The regional project will be able to live in 2004 due to an increase in the €120 million water fund, which I think is, of course, the duty of the State and the legitimate expectations of the people in this environment, because of course they do not blame themselves for the fact that 360-year-old mining has contributed to the pollution of the environment. Thus, the water fund in this item will also solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u135	Thank you. I'd end it with that. My colleague Kelemin would like to discuss this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u136	Thank you. All I would say is that in fact it is a disaster to have no uniform policy, uniform criteria for the supply of healthy drinking water in the country. Many are troubled by the supply of healthy drinking water. Let me just say, in our environment, it costs us a water connection - come and see if that's not true - depending on the costs of individual areas, from 600,000 to million 201 connections, due to extremely difficult terrain, sparse population and so on. And we don't actually get a tolar from the state level. If we apply to the Ministry of Environment and Space or anywhere else, because it is a small project, we get 20% of that, we only get 16% of that due to tax deduction, it's not even for VAT. And we're not going to apply to these projects anymore, and we're going to pay out our own pockets - 300, 400,000 people pay for the water connection, and we're going to pay. Just thank you very much for such a unified policy, which we run on the basis of water supply in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u137	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Janez Kopach, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The country, of course, has a uniform policy. State care is regional water supply. Water supply - Mr Bajuk, we could have read some kind of law - is the task of the congregation and municipal public funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u139	Please, Dr. Bajuk, when you speak, you will be at peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u140	Water supply is the responsibility of municipal public services. The country, of course, is aware of the hardships of many local communities, which are difficult to provide for the current functioning of this municipal public service, and so every year we publish a call for the co-financing of municipal infrastructure projects. That's what Mr. Kelemina said. True, funds are not very large, but we do contribute to what is basic municipal authority. The regional water pipelines, once again, are also state-of-the-art concerns under the Water Act and with the projects I mentioned earlier, we have undertaken all of the regional projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u141	Thank you. I would thus conclude a very broad debate on the amendment, which is generally supported. I am moving on to the sub-programme "preservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values". A colleague of Alojz Sok's has tabled an amendment to this subroutine. Anybody want a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The government proposes to reduce funds for the operation of the Triglav National Park, the operation of the institution, while also introducing a law to the National Assembly by the Liberal Democracy, which provides for greater investment in development programmes in the area of the Triglav National Park. Since these two matters are of course not going together, I have tabled this amendment to draw attention to this nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u143	The minister wants to answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u144	These two are not linked in any way, as the projected reduction of 15 million is due to projected lower inflation and thus lower wage escalation and thus lower wages. The programmes mentioned by Mr Sok are, of course, not financed under this heading and therefore these two things are not related.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u145	Thank you. I conclude the debate on this amendment. I am moving to the next budget user, 2525, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for efficient use and renewable energy, the sub-programme "encouragement of the use of renewable energy sources". A colleague of Aloise Sok has tabled an amendment to this programme. Who wants a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The Republic of Slovenia has received a negative assessment in the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol. It is clear that if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need to include more renewable energy uses instead of fossil fuels in our use, and therefore, of course, this amendment is proposed in this respect, so that resources for the operational biomass use programme do not decrease, as proposed by the government, because if these assessments do not, of course, continue to be poor in the future. While the Minister says he has forgotten to update the data, that he has forgotten the right time to send the relevant data, but of course this is not it. We know that the country has done little in this area to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u147	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I'm closing the debate. User 2611 - Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Sub-programme "Providing Social Inclusion", mag. Janez Drobnic has tabled an amendment to this program. Does he want your word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. In the year of persons with disabilities, it would be at least a good gesture to provide a little more funding for the implementation of professional rehabilitation in Slovenia. It is probably clear to everyone that working people with disabilities who are on hold are practically 1% involved in professional rehabilitation. This is catastrophic if we compare things in other countries. That is why I have also proposed that a few resources should be increased to include in professional rehabilitation. This will certainly result in a higher number of jobs and lower costs, the burden on pension and disability insurance. Each year, over 10 billion are just for the purpose of waiting for work. It is high time that this government moved a little, that the program we had prepared four years ago to take it into your hand and take it out. You've made a commitment to the disabled, but do nothing. So this is the first gesture, the right gesture to do it in the wake of this coming year of disabled persons, otherwise only the Minister's gestures for work, family and social affairs will remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u149	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I am concluding a discussion on this subroutine. The sub-programme follows: "creating new jobs and increasing business flexibility." He's a magician to this subroutine, too. Janez Petty Officer has tabled an amendment. You want a word? Who wants a word? Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u150	This amendment aims to promote employment, i.e. in the field of active employment policy, in order to increase entry opportunities for employment. For it is known that about 1,000 disabled persons are employed annually, and 22 000 are on the list of unemployed. If no one signed up for the next 20 years, and we wanted to hire all this crowd, it would take 20 years. Have you thought of any of this information? You didn't. Because you don't think about it. The opposition has to think and this is a consistent amendment. The funds would, however, be taken into account in the activities of the Office of the President of the Republic, which cut itself by 50% more money cakes, and in investments to maintain the state authorities for 200 million. In short, a very coordinated amendment that does not increase public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u151	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? If not, I conclude the debate on this amendment. We are moving to the sub-programme "preservation, reconstruction and construction of monuments". Dr. Joseph Bernik has tabled an amendment to this subroutine. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this proposed amendment. Followed by the subroutine "Veterinary Organisation Programmes" where we have an amendment mag. Janez Petty Officer. Anybody want a word? Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, it's a simple amendment whose foundation is a piece of humanity. It's for the fighters' association. I think it's about 200 million dollars. It is only for the functioning of societies, those after Slovenia. It's about as much money as a country, slightly smaller, to subsidize the textbooks of our primary schools. That's a strange comparison, you know, but it's real. My proposal was to make the New Slovenian Commitment, i.e. for that veterans' association that opposed the revolution, 5 million, and that these 5 million would be taken into account by associations of fighters, because they would still have 190 million so that they could have these regular, permanent celebrations in Slovenia at the expense of state resources. The Veteran organization New Slovenian Commitment organizes all of these celebrations at its own expense and the association of fighters associations at the expense of the state. It would show at least a tiny part of humanity. This is the contribution, when we join the European Union, that we will at least look a little normal. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u153	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Because no, I am closing the debate on this amendment. Subprogramme "homes and shelters." The amendment's proposal is mag. Janez Petty Officer. I'm opening a debate. Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Again for a while. You probably know that the needs of mother homes in Slovenia are obvious and are also highlighted by the Ministry of Labour, which also agrees to build a maternity home in Maribor as soon as possible. Of course, this project is professionally supported, but it is not financially supported. That is why we believe that at least 30 million will start to be built in order to acquire these basic projects. Please - please do not, I appeal, I call on your human dignity to support this amendment, so that at least we begin to engage in the construction of a maternity home in Maribor, which is firmly held by the Maribor congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u155	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm moving to the next subroutine, social protection of the old, we have one amendment mag. Janez Petty Officer. I'm opening the debate, mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. This time for a home for the elderly in Ribnica, whose elderly citizens have been hoping for 10 years, but the matter is not going anywhere. For the start of the construction of 70 million tolars, we are expected to provide from the programme that I mentioned earlier, the veteran organisations to which they are intended, only one, 190 million. What if that money, which is now spent on various celebrations and similar things, were to be spent on a home for the elderly, so that members of the union of fighters could get a place earlier in a nursing home in Ribnica, where the citizens need it very much. The pressure is great, the waiting times are great, the Blackwoods are happening to us just because it's not the right hearing. With such a slight shift of resources aimed at favouring one and the other categories, we would achieve a great result in this Slovenia. I know, it looks like you're not listening, and you're probably not voting tonight either, because the government has already decided not to support it, but in the local community we're going to tell all the citizens what a two-faced game you're playing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u157	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the discussion under this sub-programme and the budgetary user. The budget user is Ministry of Health, 2711, sub-programme "investment investments in hospitals", the amendment's proposer to this sub-programme once the Youth Party and once a group of Members with the first signed Davorin Terčon. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the discussion by this budgetary user. Following the budget user 3311, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the sub-programme of "General Secondary and Professional Schools", a group of Members with the first signed Sam Bevko tabled an amendment to this sub-programme. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this sub-programme and the amendment. The sub-programme "supporting services in primary and secondary education" follows. The party of young Slovenia tabled an amendment to this sub-programme and then the following programme. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude this debate after this amendment. Followed by the subroutine "help in secondary school", we have several amendments here, the first submitted by colleague Jože Tanko. Anybody want a word about him? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. It is a program or a problem that has been known to this national assembly for some time, yet there is no response to this problem. I mean, high school nutrition. We have around 100,000 young people in Slovenia in the most sensitive years, where the relationship to food is created, where food habits are created, because in fact both physical and mental people need to be regulated and also need the help of the country. In kindergartens food is regulated, in primary schools too, at the university we have food vouchers that are very helpful in regulating the regular diet of students. In the workplace, the employer must take care of the food because the worker is 8 hours from home and must have the opportunity and the financial arrangements for this food issue. In Slovenia, we have 100,000 secondary schools, which are many times over eight hours from home, and many times without adequate food and the country does not think about them. The Institute for Health Protection each year, in particular this year has warned the public - the government has not responded to this - how very our young people are disadvantaged in this regard. Almost half, that's what they say. A good third of high school kids don't eat breakfast. What does this mean in a stressful school environment that is becoming increasingly difficult, even though we have declared ourselves determined to relieve schoolchildren, including high school students, this is not happening. And in these stressful situations it is quite clear what statistics prove. Gentlemen, there is evidence that there is a negative statistically proven correlation between regular diet and habits such as drugs and tobacco. Where food is regulated, there are significantly fewer beginners of smoking. Not to talk about other things, as I said, about training for eating habits. I don't think it's good to raise a generation of "donalts" or generation that only deals with and feeds on fast food, but we want orderly people, people who are also somehow adults on this side. So here's the amendment proposal, it's taken where it's incomprehensible, why the material costs are both inflated this year or next year, and I want to take them down a little bit or take them away from them and give them for high school nutrition. The Government, of course, is this amendment, given that the problem is serious, has taken serious consideration and in explanation of the rejection or because the Government proposes that this amendment should not be accepted, explains: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes all amendments tabled to the draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004, with the exception of the amendments mentioned above". This is a thorough, extensive explanation for all the amendments and probably our amendment is also meant here in. So much for our side. We don't know what you're going to do. We don't know how you're going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u159	Thank you, France Tsukati. Here comes the debate on Mark Diacia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia has also tabled an amendment to increase funds for the regressive diet of students. This year, if we look at the situation, we can see that 620 million tolars have been allocated in the last budget, this proposal being 912 million tolars, which is supposed to be sufficient for a regressed diet. 24% of high school students who come from less wealthy families, which in our view is very small and probably not enough. With this amendment, we also want to increase these funds in some way, because in the procedure there is a law on the subsidisation of the student diet and this sum of these resources would be sufficient for the implementation of this measure in 2004. As we have already announced in the consideration of amending the law on student nutrition subsidies, we have taken funds from the budgetary user of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces, so that I think this amendment will be adopted without a hitch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. So, even in the New Slovenia Group, we have prepared an amendment with which to arrange, better arrange, school meals for high school students, so that with the opinions given before me by my colleague Tsukati and colleague Diaca, I fully agree and, of course, any of these amendments will be supported. We also call on others to support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u163	Anyone else? Please, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u164	I would only ask Drobnik's proposaler because he would give 30 million to repress, but he would reduce the programme by 300 million. Where will he put 270,000 million, given the material I have here?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u165	You wanted to, Comrade Petty Officer. Then.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u166	A copy error, is an administrative error, 300:300 is, because otherwise it cannot be, it must not be.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u167	Is there anything else that the Secretary of State, Stančič, needs to be explained?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members. At the Ministry, we have prepared a very high level of attention to the state budget, and it is no coincidence that this proposal on this item is an increase index since 2003 in 2004 147%. By assessing with full responsibility all proposed and envisaged programmes will be implemented without any problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u169	Anyone else want a word? Can we close the debate? Okay. We are moving to page 25 of the review, to the amendment to the budget user, the Youth Office, the sub-programme "Youth Programmes". The Youth Party's emissary group is an amendment. There's no debate. We are on page 26, with the user of the Ministry of Culture, the sub-programme "other programmes in culture", where three amendments of the Commission for Nationality have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, as effective a system as this country has to defend itself against indigenous national communities, I do not know, but I have travelled a good part of Europe, dealing precisely with human rights. This technology presupposes first confidence that everything is in order in this area, and the next phase is to convince the whole world that everything is optimally regulated. Of course not. The warnings given by the Commission and given primarily by Members of the national communities, that something is not right, of course, do not depend. And when the discussion starts on the situation of the national communities in the Republic of Slovenia in this Chamber, the debate will always turn to the state of the Slovenians mainly in Italy and Austria. Things have changed a little bit, especially in Italy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u171	Time's up, buddy Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u172	Has he run yet?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u173	Yes, because the framework for the debate is pre-reported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u174	In short, you know, there is no money that could replace this other part of this policy that is being implemented and that is allowed to be implemented, and that is, as I would say, an enemy inference to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can close the debate. Then we have a new subroutine. Colleague Ana Marija Tisovic is an investor of the amendment for a new subroutine at the Ministry of Culture. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u176	Slovenia's entry into the European Union will increase the need for Slovenian language at least in the wider area. We need to give special attention to Slovenian language and its preservation, so in Novi Slovenija we propose to open a new sub-programme for the preservation of Slovenian language.In fact, they are transferred, transferred from the Slovenian language office, from the Ministry of Culture. This is some kind of harmonisation and we believe it is appropriate to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that the time announced by the parliamentary groups for the debate on the amendments is running out. Please, if that's what you're considering. My friend Partlych wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u178	My predecessor said in his previous discussion that this side does not think enough and that the opposition must think of us. So I will support the opposition's amendment to prove it. I support this amendment because, to the extent that I was able to look at the draft budget, I did not really notice an item that somehow the office that we have abolished for Slovenian language would transfer to the finance structure of the Ministry of Culture. And I think that there will probably be new costs around this, as I think at all, of course, that the poor 2% for culture in the whole state budget will be very small money if we think about how we talk about constitutionality everywhere and the only identity of Slovenia, which is why I support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Already on the Committee on Culture there was a discussion on whether the Ministry of Culture had provided funds for the operation of the formerly independent government office for Slovenian language. It was ensured that funds under the operational budget were provided. Otherwise, I believe that we will be able to do the most for the Slovenian language if we are to understand the matter in such a way as to support all the research in the Slovenian language, stimulate creativity in the Slovenian language and increase those budget items that are intended to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u181	Thank you. I don't see any more raised time frame or desire to discuss it, so we can conclude the debate on the amendment of colleague Marija Ana Tisovic. We are moving to the User item of the Supreme Court, the subroutine of "Herkules Remnants". Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! Your Honor! The Constitution guarantees the right to be tried within a reasonable time. This year, we have faced many times on the Internal Policy Committee with the question of how to help the judiciary in order to achieve this objective, how to deal with the abolition of judicial backlogs. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment to the coalition parties, an amendment whereby we wish to provide adequate financial support for the resolution of judicial arrears. So, the amendment that will give them support for special court programmes is the district and county courts for the abolition of judicial backlogs. This item will be increased by this reallocation and will total 290 million tolars. It must be said that the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has an extremely important role and task in the resolution of judicial backlogs. The legislation adopted in this National Assembly years ago and even in years since its mandate, requires the Supreme Court to draw up a joint financial plan. Of course, it also decides on the remuneration of all judges and judicial staff, which means that it has a direct impact on the working conditions of the courts. At the same time, the Supreme Court is also the institution of a coordinated human resources plan for all courts, so it also provides support for measures to remedy the arrears - i.e. as regards judicial staff. In the case of judges, this applies to the extent to which funds are provided to the Court for the implementation of the programme for the correction of arrears and even to the extent possible for the compulsory allocation of a judge, in view of the increased mobility following the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service. It is precisely the desire of the Internal Policy Committee to coordinate between the Presidents of the District and District Courts, for whom we have assessed that those and the only ones on the ground can cope with judicial backlogs so that coordination between these actors, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice, with adequate financial support from the programme in the Supreme Court, can therefore lead to, I can say, socially supported and coordinated actions to remedy judicial backlogs already in 2004. The opposition Members and Members of Parliament also unanimously supported the decision on the Internal Policy Committee to request the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Presidents of the competent courts, to review and evaluate, within three months of the issue of this Decision, the Courts' programme for the resolution of judicial arrears, to financially evaluate and allocate the appropriate resources for their implementation. This Decision has been adopted unanimously by the Committee on Internal Policy, and with the adoption of this amendment, we should also accompany it with adequate financial support. It must be said that only a prepared programme to remedy the backlogs in the District Court in Ljubljana has requested financial support of 200 million dollars, and the rest of the funds will certainly help specific court programmes, which will therefore be prepared by courts throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I am so convinced that the unanimous support of this amendment, which we have tabled by the coalition parties, will certainly be the support of the judicial branch of power in the resolution of the judicial backlog in 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u183	I'm watching. Please, my friend Brenčič raised his hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u184	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time of my colleague Krebs’s performance, one thought, or somewhat provocative question, became strong. Given that we have had many discussions with the candidate, with the President of the Supreme Court, we have also been presented where there are also reasons for some additional problems that cannot be reduced backlogs, and, clearly, there have also been financial reasons. And now I have a question, now that the National Assembly has not given a mandate to the candidate for the Supreme Court and it seems that conditions have been laid down or the basis is that it can now be joined by a financial injection to the Hercules programme. If that's the point, it's a good thing if things get any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u185	Do I see that no one wants to discuss it anymore? Oh, no, I see it wrong. Comrade Dr. Bayuk, colleague of Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would only suggest that the applicants change the name of this item in such a way as to maintain the name Hercules. Because finally, you want it or you don't want it, this program existed if we don't have it, and then this is one item that can just directly allow the user to start doing it in a new and completely different way, as they have done so now, or, worse, to keep buying just computers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u187	Comrade Sok, time's up. I can't give you a word, not a minute, 'cause then we'd go over the time that's scheduled. Finally, I'll give my word to my colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, then to my colleague Rokavac. Please - and two words. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I just want to use the word to explain it to Dr. Bajuku. The legislation that we have, of course, does not provide for the names of Hercules, but imposes on the presidents of the District and District Courts that when there is a situation where judicial backlogs have been found, it is only necessary to prepare a programme to remedy judicial backlogs. The measures that the courts can apply in this regard have all the legal basis, and they cannot actually invent them. So that nothing will be changed, it is only to make it clear that it is therefore an item for the abolition of judicial arrears, but it is known that the financial resources are allocated to the specific programmes of the courts for the abolition of the judges of arrears. Thus, if we look at the explanation of the budget of the Supreme Court, where this item, where there were 54 million tolars before, is a justification, we see measures that are all legally supported, and these are the actions of the Court, the District Court in Ljubljana, which has been drawn up and would therefore have spent these 54 million to remedy the judicial backlogs. That's how I think we don't change anything by name or without it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u189	I think it's an explanation from your side if, after 20 seconds, Dr. Bayuk, then [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President, for your understanding. Dear colleague! It is true that the Hercules programme was not adopted on the basis of some law in this national assembly. Otherwise, this name has appeared for the fourth year in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, which are the law. In this sense, we cannot deny that this is some program that exists. So it's not, my proposal isn't completely taken out of the basket. The fact is, it does exist. But that's exactly what I'm worried about, because now you're saying again - nothing's going to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u191	Mr Secretary of State wanted a word and then he gets the word of his colleague, Rokavec. Maybe he'll explain something.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u192	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear Members, honourable Members! The government supports this amendment. You probably know what the problems are, for example in the District Court of Ljubljana, Maribor, Murski Sobota, and that is exactly what we wanted to achieve. These Presidents of the Courts have prepared programmes for the resolution of judicial arrears, and they are already financially valid, and this amount would contribute to improving the situation in these courts, as it is necessary to be aware that we will not act immediately in this year or in 2004 and will also start to implement these programmes for the resolution of judicial backlogs, the situation will be even more difficult by the end of 2004. In this sense, more resources will have to be spent in the coming years if we are to ensure that these courts reach their goal, which is a trial within a reasonable time. So I'd like you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u193	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. It is a matter of prioritising in this particular sense, in the case, but it is a priority to remove judicial backlogs, which is absolutely also appropriate, but I believe that only financial instruments are not the only ones and key to resolving the issue of judicial backlogs, but there are probably other systemic measures that will be needed to actually address this issue more quickly here. But why did I stop by? I stopped by because it would probably make sense to take money somewhere else, not on an item that primarily allows the land book to be regulated. We know that we have a situation on the land book very, very disorderly in this country. And that we will now, once certain activities have begun in this area, to begin to regulate the situation in the land book, to regulate real estate, but probably slow down the regulatory trend in this area. That's all I'm worried about. In fact, the purpose is very local and correct, only in one area will we start to move forward, it is said, the abolition of judicial backlogs, and in another area we will probably reduce the pace of these cases by reducing these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u196	Thank you very much. For an explanation to Mr Rokavac, on behalf of the applicants. A budget was adopted for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in 2004 with the following two items, which, of course, fulfil the two objectives that you have just discussed. In particular, the information of the 511 million tolar courts and the modernisation of the registration of property of 176 million 797 thousand tolars, both items were planned and completely intact in the 2004 budget change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u197	I understand that we can close this debate because there are no more applications for it. Please, Comrade Rokavec, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. My colleague Krebs, because you were just telling me all about other numbers, were you saying that the 2002 reality was intact, or were you thinking that? In fact, if that's not what you meant. If you were thinking about 2004, then you were talking about a number of 176 million, and you're proposing to cut 198 million on this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u199	Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed for 2004 and this budget has already been adopted; we are now amending this budget for 2004. The Supreme Court has received more funds, that is, 350 million dollars more, precisely in order to eliminate the judicial backlog. The in-depth debate, not only on the Internal Policy Committee but also on several occasions, has also shown that, as far as their programmes, programmes of district and district courts sent to the Supreme Court are concerned, they will not be able to have an adequate financial evaluation, and so you have also seen in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, until the district and district courts, as carriers of the action to remedy the judicial backlogs, are able to deal seriously with this problem. I submit that, in the field of information, in view of the resources remaining, as adopted and proposed by the Supreme Court, it will be sufficient. Finally, on the Committee, a government representative said that there were other possible measures through the Ministry of Justice to support the material costs that would run out to the courts at some point. I therefore think that it is an extremely important message, which, with the support of this amendment, we do make from the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u201	Did I see the real thing? Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u202	I'd just like to explain for a moment. This is a matter of priority, and I must tell you if we are only going to achieve that we will inform the land book, not worry about other legal areas in the courts, for example in the District Court in Ljubljana, if we do not achieve that justice, criminal matters and other matters will normally take place there, nothing will help us; this court will collapse and we will continue to be in a situation where no one will want to run for President of this District Court. We estimate, however, that sufficient resources are available to inform the land book and that nothing critical will happen if these funds are taken from these items and allocated to remedy judicial backlogs, which is the main problem in the field of justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u203	I understand that I can now conclude the debate on the sub-programme for the resolution of judicial arrears. We are moving on to the proposal of the amendment tabled by my colleague Lavrinc to the user by the State Defence Office. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will consider the last thing before the conclusion of this part of this point, this is the sub-programme of the administration of the Attorney General. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has tabled an amendment. Anybody want a word? I'm guessing you don't either. And so, colleagues and colleagues, we have concluded a debate that we have concluded on the basis of a review of the amendments to the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004. We will therefore conclude the debate. The decision on the amendments and the specific part of the budget will be made 15 minutes after the end of the debate or the second item of the agenda. As long as we have saved the planned time - so I propose that we now focus on the plan for the development programmes of the draft amending budget. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The decision on the development programme plan will be concluded and decided 15 minutes after item 2 has been completed. We're at 2. agenda items, this is the 2005 debate on the supplementary proposal for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. We will discuss individual parts of the state budget's complementary proposal and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan are counted. We are in the process of addressing the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I will conclude this debate. And this time, I also warn you that we will decide 15 minutes after the hearing. We are in the process of addressing the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Just a minute. Are you so kind and ahead of you take the amendments to the 2005 updated proposal? At the top, in the upper second corner is number 2. We will start with a user of the government service of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development. Do we all have these documents in front of us? Can we continue to make decisions or debates? We will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budget user, to which amendments are tabled. My proposal, please, is just a call to perhaps limit the debate to the extent possible to the key arguments, because we will then make any decision and it will be possible to explain the vote and probably again part of the arguments will be repeated there. Can we get started? Okay. We are with the user 15.36 government service for infrastructure policy and regional development, sub-programme "regional development programmes and direct regional incentives". The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has tabled an amendment. If I don't see the deadlines, I'll think there's no desire to discuss and we'll move on, that's the case here. With user 16.11, we have the Ministry of Finance and a sub-programme of "complementary funds to municipalities". The rapporteur for the amendment is the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. The debate is closed. We're with user 17.14 - police, we have a subroutine first "criminal activity". My colleague Jerovšek wants to speak to the amendment tabled by his Group of Members. This is an amendment to the sub-programme criminal activity. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Respectable. When we discussed the readiness of the services and the criminal justice service to combat organised crime on the Intelligence Supervisory Board - you are the part where the criminal service has the power to use special methods and means to combat organised crime, it is said to economic crime, money laundering, trade in white goods, refugees and so on - we were warned that in the 2005 budget, the government has withdrawn funds or does not foresee funds that would allow the implementation of such a well-predicted programme to combat organised crime, particularly economic crime. This suggests that the strategy or forecasting is just a tiny bubble. In ten, twelve years, this service was virtually decomposed. They did not have the staff - in line with the government's strategy, these authorities - to prosecute economic crime. In 2004, Minister Bohinc, in particular to insist on our supervisory commission and to put pressure on the public on some serious affairs such as the SIB affair, presented the awards to managers in Elan, Zbilski Gaj and so on, a rapid presentation of the programme against economic crime. However, that the government does not seriously believe that it is not the political will to fight this, because it is obvious that the expiration date has not yet expired when such a crime is persecutable, and it is not yet a serious intention to pursue economic crime in the types of its party February, this programme is abandoned at operational level in 2005. The amendment we have proposed does not cover all the resources. He has been asked to warn the Slovenian public and the local National Assembly that they should be transparent, clear, honest and open before the Slovenian public. The government isn't open and it's not fair, the government doesn't want to prosecute economic crime. These cases are nothing. Neither does the Public Prosecutor's Office bring charges and charges against debtors, nor does it prosecute this economic crime. Last but not least, the players of these most insidious financial frauds buy the largest parcel of money in Piran, the coast and so on, so they have all state support, do not hide their hair or nothing, but the government advertises itself as if it has serious purposes. I hope that fellow Members will look forward to these government manoeuvres, such political will or lack of political will to prosecute this social evil, real corruption, which has culminated in the very tops of government, and that at least the parliamentary majority will be as much on the part of the public as the representatives of the people to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u205	I understand that there is no longer interest in discussing this sub-programme and that we can move forward. We are with user 21.11 - Ministry of Economy, sub-programme "social protection and compensation for restructuring production". We have a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. So, I'm closing the debate because there's no interest in her. User 23.11 - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we are in the "rural development" programme, the New Slovenia Group has tabled an amendment. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. So, the debate and what we are doing here, of course, shows how much nonsense it is to accept the 2005 budget. So no one shows any real interest in this debate. We know that we are taking something that will change and fix at least twice, if not three times by 2005. However, with regard to the amendment tabled, I would like to point out once again that Slovenia would necessarily need to introduce an early retirement measure for Slovenian farmers during the actions of the common European agricultural policy. The problem is that the average age in our agricultural sector is alarmingly high. Our farmers are on average over 55 years old and have resolved this issue by introducing an early retirement measure by Member States of the European Union. This early retirement measure is, of course, established by law, and it is specified exactly how much of the funds may belong to someone who decides to take such a measure. It is specified at what time the holder of the agricultural production of the resource may obtain it. In the Member States of the European Union, it is also stipulated by law that workers working in agricultural enterprises may retire prematurely. Unfortunately for us, these resources are not specifically defined in the budget, nor for 2004. While the explanation of the budget states that Slovenia will introduce this measure, however, to what extent and to what extent these funds are not earmarked, and even less, of course, in the 2005 budget, when Slovenia is actually a member of the European Union. So it has been found by government representatives that this measure will be introduced, but I can also believe that it is not being prepared in the legislative field at this time; there is no law in this area. I am personally convinced that the law will have to be adopted before this measure is introduced. As the law will have to define the procedures for transferring to the holder of the farm, it will have to define what rights, what duties are. Since this is a measure of a common European agricultural policy, we have proposed in this amendment that for 180 million tolars - so much so foreseen for this measure - the measure of the ECP-0 should be reduced. Otherwise, we are not in favour of any intervention affecting ECO-0 funds, because ECO-0 funds are direct payments and are strictly designed. However, since this is a structural policy measure, we believe that these funds could be provided under the ECO-0 programme. And if Slovenia were to introduce this early retirement measure, some of these funds could also be obtained from the common budget of the Brussels Treasury and, of course, part of these funds will also have to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Why is this measure urgently necessary? It is necessary to accelerate the transition of agricultural land, to use agricultural land as a farming function and to prevent what is currently happening in the Republic of Slovenia, which is that agricultural land is growing rapidly. According to statistics, in the last three years alone, about 10,000 agricultural operators have ceased farming activity. And I would very much like to see the government's non-analysis. I suppose and suppose that most of these people have more or less agreed as social supporters at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. So, of course, such solutions are not good and once again I appeal to the government and to all those who need to arrange this area to implement this measure as soon as possible and thus help to make this transition to agricultural land in Slovenia faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u207	Thank you, Comrade Sok. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] In "earth operations", this is a sub-programme, we have tabled the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much. In the review of the 2005 proposal, we found that the funds allocated to the Commission completion programme are falling by around 10% from 2004, where they are foreseen at 185 million. We would like to point out that, in the role of structural policy and in improving the size of agricultural land in Slovenia, it is imperative to continue the commotion process. In some areas, such as the region of Gorička in Prekmurje, most agricultural parcels are smaller than 20 acres. We all know that these areas also fall out of the possibility of obtaining subsidies, it is said, from the possibility of obtaining direct payments, and that these areas, which are already in a deprived situation, are further weakened through such a way, so it would be necessary to pool certain parcels and create larger agricultural areas. Unfortunately, if we are to reduce funds for this purpose, then this goal is somehow moving away. Here, of course, we can see that both the government and the mother’s working body oppose it. However, I would like to say that there has been a longer debate on this issue on the Committee on Agriculture - I do not expect it here in Parliament - but I would like to point out that there is a substantial need to do more in this area than has been done so far. On average, Slovenian farms are four times smaller than the average in the European Union and, of course, this is also due to over-integrated agricultural areas. This would in some way be necessary to unite. However, mergers require financial resources. That is why, of course, we appeal to the Government that, by 2005, when we are sure to make at least three more changes in this budget, we are responsible for solving this problem in a different way, not that we are reducing the funds for this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u209	Excuse me? Just to consult, because it is important for the debate to continue. I apologize for the sub-programme "expert and advisory tasks, education and research", but we have now consulted on the matter, which is at present real, not about any other matter, if we do not just keep talking about it so that we do not rush into the debate. Comrade Sok, did you want it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Because in this area of agriculture, which seems to me to be extremely important, we have also tabled several more amendments and then, if you will allow me, I will continue to explain these amendments. One of the most important areas of agriculture is definitely scientific - research work. Both in the 2004 budget and in the 2005 budget, we can see and see that resources for scientific research in agriculture are declining. This means that this very important area is not given sufficient attention. There has been a lot of talk here today by the leaders of the parliamentary groups, when they presented their views on the budget on behalf of the parliamentary groups, that Slovenia will have to increase its investment in science. I beg you, Mr. President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u211	Comrade Sok, you have one word, and I ask everyone else not to disturb the debaters. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u212	So Slovenia, faced with the situation with the European Union, will have to invest much more in science. And agriculture is certainly one of those areas that must not be neglected, especially since in the pre-accession negotiations most of the legislation, most of the work that has to be done has actually tantamount to agriculture and the processing - food industry. For this reason, in New Slovenia we are convinced that more should be devoted to these research projects in this area than today, when the funds for this purpose are essentially negligible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u213	Good. Anyone else? We can move on. We're with the sub-programme "reduction of agricultural damage". This is where you tabled the amendment, and you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters requires that agricultural damage funds be provided in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's financial plan. These funds should be provided in the budget for 2005. However, when we review this part of the budget, we can see that these resources are not actually in the budget. So we think that this is actually a violation or a failure to respect the adopted law, and here I would also ask representatives of the government how they will solve this problem or why they do not comply with this law. It is known that for 2004 we had to resolve this dilemma a few days ago by amending the law on the implementation of the budget, when we actually increased the budget reserve. This will no longer be the case in the future, as the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Natural Disasters is clear and speaks of the need to provide funds for this purpose, namely for agriculture in the Ministry of Agriculture and for all other areas within the Ministry of Environment and Space. Not in one and not in the other case today, these funds are not provided in the 2005 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u215	Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u216	Therefore, for 2005, the reserve funds were provided for possible accidents that would have occurred during 2005. We anticipate obligations under the specific laws of 2004 that we will no longer bear than that which will not be paid in the context of the 2004 drought damage recovery programme. The funds will be transferred under the contingency fund, so this billion 800, which is foreseen for 2005, will be further increased. In fact, we do not know exactly what resources we should provide because we do not know what damage will occur. The law on the implementation of the budget allows this possibility, including the law on the recovery of damage to natural disasters, to ensure that when this happens these funds are also ensured because only then is it possible to know what their dimension is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u217	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u218	I am very grateful to you for this answer, because by the opposition we have warned about this in the adoption of the law on the elimination of natural happiness. We have always argued that it is not possible to provide funds for the resolution of natural disasters in advance, because we do not know what the dimension of these natural disasters is, but the ruling coalition, the government has insisted that in the law we have written down exactly what I said earlier that they should be planned as of 2005 for agricultural damage within the Ministry of Agriculture and for other damage within the framework of the Ministry of Environment and Space. If I finish. It will then be necessary to amend this law, which is called, I don't know, the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters, but it does. The law states that funds are provided from the budget reserve in 2004 and from 2005 onwards within the budget as I explained. However, I deeply agree with you, and I have also pointed out as a member of the opposition here that it is not possible to provide and plan some funds in advance within the budget, because we do not know the extent of the natural disasters that may befall us, but this has been accepted despite the opposition's warnings.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u219	Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Perhaps there is only so much to warn you about in connection with this law on the elimination of natural disasters. There is also one provision which states that if the disaster recovery programme was adopted before September of the year for which the budget is being prepared, then funds should be planned in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of the Environment, as the dimension of this is known. If this is not the case, if the programme is later adopted, it shall be provided from the reserve. And there is a reserve fund for this purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u221	Shall I close the debate? Good. We are moving through, we are on page six of the sub-programme of "services and public institutions". The addition was introduced by the Liberal Democracy Club. Let's move on. Subprogramme: Fisheries Development Program. The addition was tabled by the New Slovenia Group. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u222	In fact, I will repeat the explanation that we have already given in the 2004 budget. It is a matter of reducing subsidies in the field of fishing activities. We are convinced that Slovenia's response to the unresolved situation in the Gulf of Piran, given the fact that Croatia has declared exclusively an economic zone, should be different and that, in fact, Slovenia would best respond to this dilemma by increasing the funds we are investing in the development of the fishing fleet. Thus, what we are going through today seems to be sold out, sold out, and thus lost our fishing activities. The funds currently foreseen in the 2005 budget for this purpose are extremely low and our proposal is, if not, because obviously this will not be accepted, the government will at least consider how to proceed. Because it is not in line with any aggressive policy in this area to increase the resources for the operation of the fisheries institution itself, it is said that we are strengthening the bureaucratic apparatus and, on the other hand, we are doing nothing to strengthen the operational fishing activity itself. This amendment does not provide for some high funding for this purpose, a total of 20 million, but it would be an incentive in this direction and, of course, we would particularly like to point out to the Government that it begins to be aware of this problem and that it is possible to respond to this problem through investment in the economy itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u223	Anyone else? I guess not. We're going to the Ministry of Transport. We're at the subroutine, the highway building facility. The supplement was submitted by Nova Slovenija. Comrade Sok wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Road infrastructure is certainly one of the most important assumptions for economic development in the Republic of Slovenia. Today we can see that the differences between Slovenian regions are considerable. We can see that in this respect there are some areas, such as the northeastern part of Slovenia with Prekmurje, in an extremely deprived situation. If, therefore, we want these less developed areas to reach a step in development with other areas, then it is essential to ensure a better road infrastructure connection in the first place. A resolution of the national programme will shortly be before us in the National Assembly, which is already the second amendment to the construction of the Slovenian road cross. And it follows from this programme that if the one proposed is accepted, Prekmurje will get a highway at best only around 2013 and in the opposition we are confident that it may be another year or two later. The status change of Darsa when he became a public company in the form of a law, i.e. he assumes that Dars would be in debt in the future through the issuance of infrastructure bonds. We are confident that this construction through infrastructure bonds will not take place in the way it is intended, so we propose that more resources be provided under the budget for the construction of the highway programme. Where do you take these funds? We propose that the tax and customs administration, which will operate on a significantly smaller scale in 2005, will no longer need a customs service at our northern and western borders as of 2005, we will have these authorities only on the eastern border, at the border with Croatia. It also seems illogical to us that the resources for the customs and tax administration are envisaged to the same extent as in 2003 or in 2004. For this reason, we propose that part of these funds, which will be released, be earmarked for faster construction and faster investment in the Slovenian road programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u225	Let's move on. Sub-programme "investment activities on railway infrastructure". Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u226	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! Our Group of Members has tabled an amendment, which we do not think will solve, is the second railway track of Divača-Koper. The fact is, we have to do something in Slovenia. Last but not least, we did not agree on this in our parliamentary group, but our neighbors are also persecuting us in this regard. [[Mayor of the market and probably someone else]] , interested in a certain change of corridors which are in this narrow space. It is true that Slovenia does not have a lot of sea, but, as the situation shows, it has a very important port at this end. And this advantage that we have right now is not to be played out. The fact is that Hungary has invested a lot in the river, at least that was the agreement, and even though the river has had fewer advantages than Koper, with rapid and large investments in this area also in railway infrastructure against the river and against Hungary, Slovenia may lose those advantages that Koper has as a port and obvious infrastructure, especially rail, becoming that of the development of the port of Cyprus. It is necessary to know that in previous times at the turn of the previous century Slovenia had, of course, a second window, this was Trieste, but after World War II due to alliances, of course due to political definitions, Slovenia lost this port and as far as we know, the country was given money to build a railway connection with Koper as a new port. Of course, this was not done at the time, but later Slovenia realized this, but unfortunately, only one track of railway connections was built, and today Koper is a relatively large port and one track is clearly a crumb of development. I will not say anything new either, because the director of Luke Koper has talked about this a lot, and if Slovenia does not do something quickly and connect Koper with the appropriate infrastructure, then Koper will start to go back, I think the port will start to go back and stagnate others while they are working fast. I mentioned, of course, the port in the river, where Hungary is also included. It is necessary to say around this second track that Slovenia may have behaved here a little machete or perhaps not sufficiently driven towards this link, as the situation is clearly changing very quickly and others react very quickly and this economic space is unforgivable. It would probably be necessary, not only this second track from Kopra to Divaca, but also links probably Kopra and Trieste, but this is, of course, another story. I would like to point out that it is not by chance that we have tabled an amendment to this connection in the SDS Group of Members, because we have recently spoken a lot about this track in our Member Group, our colleague Tanko, and warned our government that something must be done, especially after the mayor of the market has also started to speak publicly that Slovenia is not doing enough in this area, that it is not responding sufficiently to the fact that the responses are not fast enough and that they will bypass us and, of course, this is bad for the port of commerce. That is why we have tabled an amendment in our parliamentary group, which will not solve this issue, but in view of what is happening, and that Slovenia has now awakened, and this would be a good signal that Slovenia is serious. Since something other practical Slovenia has not done so far, but if you have something defined in the budget, it is certainly a good signal to be serious, otherwise I would not put it in the budget. It should be stressed that Slovenia has fallen off the rapid list prepared by Brussels for certain infrastructure connections, including rail links. Of course, we woke up and now we are looking for new resources, which is of course positive and needs to be welcomed, but it is on ad hoc. But if we do not warn that we are serious and put things in the budget, then no one will take us seriously that we are serious about this second track. If we may have missed the train for the second track before then we should no longer close our eyes so that others will wait for us to wake up and take a serious look at this connection. In doing so, we need to take into account that we must do something for ourselves, not just go begging someone else and ask them to do something, but we ourselves do nothing. That's the basic condition. And that these talks for the second track really started moving faster, it's positive, we welcome it, and we're looking for alliances elsewhere in Europe. In recent times, we have come to realize that we are probably too small to handle things from the chair, so the last visits to Brussels and Rome will certainly be a positive incentive. But as I said, if we don't do something ourselves, then we can forget that others will help us. And we have made one proposal here to make a modest contribution to show others that we are serious about putting this at least somehow symbolically into the budget, even though it is only for 2005, but better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Two hands, three hands. Comrade Sok, colleague Jerovšek and so on. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. It is obviously the last moment for us to start in this House many times, on every occasion to talk about the failure to implement the national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure. I am sure that we would talk about this national programme as much as we do about the road programme, so that matters today would be significantly different. Thus, in fact, we have somehow all let go of this area together in a desire to build Slovenian roads as soon as possible and today we are in a situation as we are. We have fallen for European funds through the construction of this second track, and we can hear from government representatives: regardless of the fact that we have fallen out of this programme, we will have to build a second track on our own. So, the Republic of Slovenia will have to build a second track between Divaca and Kopro most likely with its own resources, which means, of course, through credit funds, I don't know, maybe you'll propose some bonds again, and similar solutions. It is imperative that we start to deal more intensively in this area, because we obviously went into competition for European investment with this project. Such messages have also come from Brussels, and this situation can be observed today when we read what journalists write in the media, because the government is both superficial and flat-rate about what it has achieved, how it has negotiated or why this project has not been classified as a priority in the list of European investments. It is essential that we entrust the Ministry with arriving, as we have discussed in the road programme, to the National Correctional Assembly, by means of a resolution of the national programme for the construction of railway infrastructure. Indeed, it is now said that the modernisation project has succeeded only in this part between Ljubljana and, I think, Ormož, on this railway. However, the fact is that there are still many unsecured railway crossings in this area, that we once had a law in Parliament that envisaged how these unprotected railway crossings should be secured in the future, but then that law remained only at the stage of some kind of draft, and the national assembly did not discuss this further. Here I would like to point out that there are many accidents in this area, including many deaths, and that much more resources will have to be invested in regulating this pressing problem. Let me get this straight. We will support this amendment, and it would also be right for the other Members to understand this matter and to weigh it very seriously with themselves, because it is obvious that the National Assembly must give some initial impetus in this direction in order to begin to address this issue more thoroughly. Just like it is right now, of course it can't be. Now is not the time to look for who is to blame, that this matter has not moved, that it has not been given a different epilogue, but it is essential that we continue to work in this area from this point on. And what is upon us Members is to start pressing on the appropriate ministry, on the government to speed up its activities in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u229	I think I've seen the hand of my colleague Jerovsk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The railway line or second track of the port of Koper, the Slovenian infrastructure, with the central European space is the aorta of the Slovenian port in Koper. Without this connection, we can be concerned about the fate of Luke Koper in the near future and in the long run. We know of the interests of neighbouring countries, which are sometimes willing to do everything to ensure that the interests of Slovenia and the interests of Luka Koper are properly prevented, reduced and, in this direction, to state, for example, this declaration of an economic zone or fishing-environment zone, which is actually an economic zone by a neighbouring country, the sub-area of the left government there, which promised extraordinary cooperation four years ago with the same colourful political garniture in Slovenia, and eventually turned into the greatest use of Slovenian interests. I believe that such a policy was concluded in Slovenian tennis courts or was previously agreed in the puppet theatre here in Ljubljana. For this reason, it is proposed that the budget item should start to raise awareness among the Slovenian public and the Slovenian policy that this track is necessary and no further delay is allowed. Regardless of the fact that some economists in this area will cry out that this track is the most stupid thing Slovenia can afford, as I recently found the address in Slovenian newspapers. Koper had long power, a local authority that was not known how interested he was in the best possible link of Kopra to the Slovenian economic and political backdrop. Let's just remember the procession and acknowledgment of the former mayor and other important political officials from Kopra here before this national assembly with the banners "When I'm big, I'll be customs in Black Kal". With such, say, the Tapal border on Black Kal of course Slovenia would not need a second track because it would already be in another country. I think it is imperative that this National Assembly be aware of the importance of Luke Koper, her infrastructure of connection with the Slovenian hinterland, Central Europe in order for Slovenia to survive in the cruel economic world. Thank God in the political field has changed a lot in Cyprus. I am confident that the local authorities will no longer interfere with Slovenian national interests. Sadly, however, many things have happened in the meantime. Although the company was rehabilitated with Slovenian bonds, the Bank of Koper was easily committed to other ownership, which is of course not interested in prosperity, such as the Copper ports and the Koper economic operators. For this reason, as I have already said, it is absolutely necessary and there is no excuse for anyone to vote against the firm commitment of the Slovenian authorities to stop avoiding this vital interest of the Slovenian state and of all Slovenian citizens. Without that, Luka Koper is dead capital because in a competitive battle with the port of Strasbourg and the port of marketing will sink. I hope that Slovenian policy is aware of these responsibilities in at least one part of Slovenia's national interests and will not continue to do as it has done in the preparation of European infrastructure projects. As illustrated by the Foreign Policy Committee, this route was not reported as an interstate project in the context of the wider connections of the Fifth Corridor, of course, the borders on the grandeur. The current explanation and, in fact, the comfort and creation of soap bubbles to comfort the Slovenian public that this route is included in the programme of so-called coastal highways within the Adriatic-Ionian highway seems to me not to drink too much water. I would like to have those Slovenian ministers here who hope to bet a card then, but bet of course with a mortgage on their property. I think that this is a worse comfort, the sour comfort of the Slovenian public that some trains have taken away, and that, of course, now the patching of their political skin in this way is necessary, however. I hope that this National Assembly will support this amendment, that today the excuses we have witnessed in recent years will cease to exist, and once again I stress: I do not want to see the Slovenian border on the Black Kal at any time. Even if only a coastal Primorska is cut off economically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u231	Now, clearly that freedom of speech is in force, the Rules of Procedure may interfere with this only as long as this is a violation of the subject-matter of the debate. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Can I just explain, Comrade Jerovšek? [[...]] I didn't jump into your entire debate once in a while, and you can't listen to me patiently. It is most difficult for the budget to assess whether the discussion will ever exceed the subject matter. That's why I didn't reach out to you either, but I'm just appealing. Let's stick to the proposal completed. Do not discuss all matters concerning the subject matter of this supplement. Okay. Let's move on. Master Grachner. Please. Then my friend Aurelio.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I cannot be silent about this amendment, which I personally believe is, not as my colleague Jerovšek said, treason, but treason. I am not going to talk about the need for this second track between Divisco and Kopro, because here opinions are shared and different. I will talk a little more specifically about this amendment, which as a source takes into account the closing of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, which takes as much as 500 million tolars. What's this all about? Let me light up and remind you, fellow Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and of New Slovenia, that in 1999 you were the only signatories to the referendum on the construction of the thermal power plant 3, that on the basis of this outcome of the referendum the government adopted a law on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, under which the funds were intended for closure. Let me also remind you of the spring talks or the summer talks from this Parliament when there was a debate in this Parliament on coherent regional development, when you were just taking your stand and empathizing with the Pek workers when you accused our government of doing nothing, and so on. There were a lot of words, some calls, and, I'll say, some hatred. For this reason, I would really ask you to stop filing the amendments that collect the items, the items that you have essentially created. You have caused it with, in my opinion, still very pointless referendums, where, in fact, the whole of Slovenia has decided the fate of a completely small establishment in Zasavje and on which Zasavje was vitally dependent. It is just you, Mr Pukšič, that you were then, I was not yet a Member, and I listened to your speech when you based this initiative on the referendum. I remember you, too, Comrade Jerovšek, and I did not really understand as a Ripper what Zasavlje did to you, that all that hatred and all that was expressed at the time. And even now, I don't understand why you can't let this process end. If you were already in favour of closing the mine, then please leave it alone, but not every year in this National Assembly when adopting the budget, we have a debate every year on, in your opinion, unnecessary closure. In our view, it was also unnecessary to close, but the law was passed, even adopted in 2000 during the Bajuk government. So, of course, I will vote against this amendment, and I also call on other colleagues to vote against this amendment. And that's why, as I said, this amendment is a huge treachery. That's what I said on the finance committee. And I hope that either I or someone else from this bench won't need to speak again, I don't know when to say what I said today. I hope today is the last time I've really told you, and I really asked you to stop making amendments in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u233	Comrade Aurelio Yuri, then Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u234	Thank you. I'll respond to the subject of the second track. First of all, by saying: I doubt that the second track would be able to endure all the themes that we impose on this point. And the puppet theatre and the unconstitutionality of the alleged municipality of Koper and relations with Croatia, we all take the second track. We're not gonna make it. We're gonna need a third. Look, I'm glad we're finally coming with the help of the Democratic Party to a consensus around the second track. I am pleased that, in recent weeks, with colleagues of the Democratic Party, they are finally proving that we have the sea, that we have Luka Koper, that we have the need for a second track. All the years that some of us have done this, and I have been writing letters for at least ten years, asking questions from Members and discussing the second track, there has been little understanding and support from that end. I'm glad this support is finally here. The correction of the statement by colleague Petan - he spoke of the mayor of Trieste, who was supposed to pressure him - it is not the mayor of Trieste, it is the former mayor of Trieste, the current Prime Minister of Furlania-Julia. I am pleased that our diplomacy has finally brought to the attention of the European Union for this project, and I agree with my colleague Jerovsk and Petan, who reminds us that we must take some initial steps to be able to run for European funding through the authority and references necessary here. The amendment proposed, you know for yourself, is a drop into the sea. If colleagues don't know, this second track in the one they're supposed to build for themselves is worth between 60 and 115 billion. It is therefore a question of where, how and when we will provide these funds, with the help of the European Union or ourselves. Today or on another occasion, I would rather hear the answer, given that the government has finally determined what needs to be done with regard to the second track, that it will come as soon as possible with the answer, where the money is from, and with what dynamics we will tackle this task. Rather than an amendment that may serve to prepare documentation, which I know is already in preparation at the Ministry of Transport and at the Ministry of the Environment - all of this is already flowing and I believe that there will be some concrete meat out of it. In the end - see, some obvious went to our client if we are partners of another party who ruled for four years in Croatia, with which we have not solved anything - I hope that colleagues will be Democrats with HDZ who will now have power, of course [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u235	This is not the subject of this discussion, Comrade Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u236	We've solved all the problems that we haven't been able to solve. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u237	My friend Jerovšek wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Gračner named me by name, and his views must also be answered. The fact that this amendment, which advocates the course of Divac-Koper or that this route of Divac-Koper is a treachery, is unheard of to me. I have a well-preserved picture of the rallyers under the banner "When I'm big, I'll be the customs officer on Black Kal" and I'll see if Mr Gračner was even at that rally to say such things, that this is a broadcast, this track and this amendment. Nevertheless, I think that he was trying somehow to stand up for his Savlovje, that we have achieved something with this amendment in this direction. I don't know if we've achieved that or whether the election year has encouraged it. I finally heard him speak before the plenary in the fourth year of his term. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u239	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u240	It may have been before, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u241	Comrade Jerovšek, please, everyone has the right to judge when and how many times he will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u242	So I reiterate my rejection of the allegations of treason with the amendment, which advocates initiating the line of Divac-Koper. Such statements, I think, are detrimental to the total misunderstanding of Slovenian national interests, even from the largest government party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u243	Let me remind you of Parliament. I'll give you the word mag. Granner. We are in the process of promoting investment activities on railway infrastructure, and this is under discussion so that we can focus on them. Please, Comrade Mag. Gracner. Then my colleague Sok and so on. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u244	I would like to point out once again that, in my speech, I have strictly stated that I am not against this second track, but that this amendment is, according to the content of the bigotry, because of this. And I just explained why it is, and also what I'm sure it is, because - I'm not going to repeat all the reasons from the referendum for the adoption of the law. As far as my advertising in Parliament is concerned, I am surprised again that one of the two sessions we spoke back there, he told me the same thing about my response. So I don't know what's wrong, but it's certainly understood that as a member of Parliament from Zasavje, or specifically from Trbovlje, where we're actually facing problems arising from various referendum decisions, that I'm just going to be in this case when they took 500 million from us or when they want to take 500 million tolars away from us, so that I'm sure I'll come by and tell you my point of view, and I don't think there's a whole lot of bad news about this. Once again, I have not said that the national interest of Slovenia or in this other route is no bigotry, but the content of this amendment is the source from where they take it if we know the history behind it, but it is misdirection.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u245	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u246	Of course I'm with the mags. I couldn't agree more with Gračner. And all the right is to stand up and protect the interest of the environment from which it comes, that's perfectly normal. I would like to correct one of his references. It is said that TET3 did not reject this site, but the construction of TET3 was rejected at the referendum, and it also opposed this construction by the profession, and the profession then opposed this construction because it would be an incredibly expensive building that would give expensive electricity. In addition, of course, we would also be working with this project in contravention of what Slovenia must do after signing the Kyoto Protocol. We have already received a poor estimate without it, an assessment that we do not meet, that we do not reduce the amount of greenhouse gases. Otherwise, Mr Digger says he has forgotten to send the correct information at the right time, but this does not reduce the assessment we have earned in this regard. It is therefore necessary to address this issue and to include renewable resources in the use and provision of energy. I think it is much better that we spend this money instead of TET3 on the bottom-up chain now and it will be a much better investment than an investment in the use of fossil fuels. As for the victory of the ten-year effort of Mr Yuri. This victory is such that the government has found that we have not been able to build a second track with domestic resources on the European funds project. She's the only one who hasn't told me when. So, all we're missing is this when. Once. When, perhaps, Mr Juri, you will be able to work for the next 10 years. This amendment, however - you say, drops into the sea - is a start. It has to start somewhere and once. And I have previously pointed out in my debate that this National Assembly must start our government whenever possible to warn of this. To do what she hasn't done before. She did not do everything to be able to succeed just before this Brussels bureaucracy, which is as it is, is very difficult. And if that's where they found out that we didn't do anything at home in this direction, yes, then, dear God, they deleted our project from that list, or if I say otherwise, the others beat us to it. And the beginning is here. So, we're going to set up some funds to start preparing projects, and then the government will come to Parliament, and they'll say, you know what, that's not enough. Activities are now under way. It needs to be increased. And that's why I support this amendment. Of course, not in this direction, but to take, I don't know, an environment that was guaranteed by law. This can also be resolved in a different way with the amendment until the conclusion of the debate, or - that is to say, this 2005 budget will still be fixed three times. I'm sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u247	Please, buddy Pukšič. Both ministers have also been asked to speak, and I will give my word. First, my friend Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u248	Thank you very much. When my name was mentioned in relation to the TET3 referendum and the surprise of the debates at the time, of course, it would be good to have, before mentioning it, read my discussions about what I was discussing, but not: it is not only in vain that I have made a point of thinking that I have always been in areas where unemployment is greater than the average of the Republic of Slovenia - but not only that I have taken up this position, even with my former fellow Member, because I have not yet seen light in this procedural procedure of this National Assembly, as I have after six years of deliberation. So, which would allow the reduction of unemployment where it is greater than the average in the Republic of Slovenia, but not in this way, of course, because in fact it would produce no jobs or in some way with a huge amount of money some infrastructure or some maintenance. It was not justified in professional terms to build something in a way such as a thermal power plant, if, of course, we have on the other hand in Slovenia a lot of unused natural wealth, renewable resources, of course not only on Sava, but much more of this is on Mura, which is of course a new chapter, a new story that would make sense to support it. It is true, however, that the problem for Members when preparing amendments under this new Rules of Procedure is that they are the least State Secretary or the Under-Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, because they should have checks over everything and the whole budget and all items. And look, because you probably believe that one of the envoys in the drafting of the amendments can't get through all this material. And then with the knowledge and technology that's enabled, he tries to do his best. It was more reasonable and more logical as long as we had the rules of procedure as it was more normal for Members to work in the national assembly, that the government then coordinated and prepared these financial implications and pushed them. Why, though, is such a rule of procedure, and also because of you, who probably voted for it at the time, as the majority of the government coalitions voted for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u249	Peace, peace, peace. My friend Aurelio Yuri asked. Then I will give the floor to both ministers, and I hope that you will contribute to perhaps a discussion later too far forward to clarify things. Comrade Aurelio Juri on the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u250	Yes, of course, on the subject of discussion and as a supplement or explanation to my colleague Sok, who has besieged my name. The result of the ten-year effort - and not only me, but also the mayor and those political forces that manifested themselves at the time in the National Assembly - is that we have finally received a second railway track in the government's programme with this government. All the years before, no previous government or one you supported had this item, and we have it in this government programme. Of course, unfortunately we went in three years too slow, so today we are paying a certain price, but we finally know that the government is aware of this and has begun to prepare quickly for it. I hope so, or I am sure that we will not have to wait for the next ten years to see concrete steps in this direction. Last but not least, the 500 million you're proposing. Look, the paperwork's already being prepared with that money. If we were to propose a few billion, that's another question. Of course, we would also negotiate accordingly. But it is more important to me and, of course, here is a call to the government, which knows that in 5 days there will be a resource that is useful - a million more euros - in order to prepare projects and documentation for the Koper-Trest railway connection - it has not gone to anything. However, the government has decided to prepare a study on the appropriateness of this link. The appropriateness of this link is discussed by Luka Koper, also by authorities, cities and regions. I therefore have no doubt that this link is appropriate, especially after we break the border, because it is the operationality of both ports and the intercity railway connection. But we do have a good million euro available, of course, which will expire in five days and will not be able to use it unless we give the green light. That's why I'm calling the government so I don't miss this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u251	I don't think he mentioned you. Please, I'm trying to follow the debate and I didn't hear it. If there is, I'll take your word for it. Please, Comrade Sok. Let's wait and see.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u252	Thank you very much. He certainly mentioned me. So, I swear to God, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u253	It's okay, I trust you. Please, please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u254	Well, there's only one sentence I'd like to complete. I'm not here now, but I'm almost 100% sure that this second track is, of course, written in your coalition agreement. So it's not just the government. It's a ruling coalition. You set this as your goal, and if you find that this is not true today, then this is, I'd say, the failure of your ruling coalition with the government at the helm.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u255	Comrade Grošelj, then the Minister, and then I will try to conclude the debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. In 2001, I think that in accordance with the consent of the management of the Trbovlje Hrastnik mine, I handed out the new Slovenia complete investment programme on the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine until 2007 and 2011. I have always believed that we will end this discussion once and that you will also remember that coal production is ending in 2007 and that closing works are by 2011. What Mr Sok was saying was that he was opposed to returning to the environment what had been taken from him, of course, we are not returning anything to the environment with this closing work. We are closing only to prevent the greatest natural and other damage that could, of course, happen. All this is happening, dear gentlemen, from 300 to 400 meters underground. Hundreds and hundreds of miles must be closed because it can have such catastrophic consequences as it would have in the case of a nuclear power plant if there were an outbreak. However, as far as the honourable Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are concerned, we are prepared to reiterate to you, all the Members from Zasavje, at each meeting of the National Assembly, on each committee that we will discuss, that you have had the mistaken thoughts that you do not even know what you are saying, but we will still be so humble that we will try to explain these additional matters to you, and until the end of the mandate, and I am sure that even after 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u257	Please. Come on, calm down!Minister Digger, you can contribute to closing the debate on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u258	I hope so. I must say that I was still having a good time listening to all these heated discussions, mainly by Mr Sok and Jerovsk, as well as by Pukšič. The problem with this amendment, irrespective of good intentions, is that it is invested in the ISPA item, the funds we receive from the Brussels treasury and which have already been approved. You would therefore like to increase these Brussels funds with your amendment. To address the amendment to the Brussels authorities or the European Commission, of course you can do so, but not through the amendment in the Slovenian state budget. In fact, this amendment is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u259	Good. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u260	Well, I'll answer Mr. Digger in the same style. If you, Mr. Secretary, are a respected minister, The digger, in front of the mayors, twenty, lower Podravje, declare that the law on regulating the space sucks, that it is rigid and that it is the fault of Ambassador Alojz Sok of Ormož, then it is also a crazy fun for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u261	I won't allow statements, not one or the other that would not. [[...]] Comrade Digger, please, Minister Digač, don't let me warn you. Peace in the hall. The subject of the discussion is clear, and I will not limit the discussion if it is not inappropriate. We're on our way to the Roads Directorate. In order to avoid later misunderstandings, do I see that the three members of the LDS Group, the ZLS Group of Members, the SLS Group of Members, have tabled amendments to the amendment to the supplementary draft budget set out on page 8. Is that right? Yeah. And we have him in front of us on one side, right? This would mean that this amendment is complemented by a user 24.15 of the RS Roads Directive. Please, can you explain? You want a word? Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the Minister of Finance is leaving. I don't like to talk to any of these amendments, because they're all kind of like a tightly pierced bucket, and the more you try to take some water to the pepper, the better the bucket is empty. I mean, it's nice and it's right to justify that somewhere needs to make additional funds, but it's also worth taking them elsewhere. That's why I've been dedicating a few words to this mega amendment. With this amendment we're kind of playing with one subroutine and one item, I'm going to say with two items that are both undernourished. I say that if we want to work out what is most necessary on the network of state roads, we should have 5 billion more for 2005 not a billion and a half. But no, you know, because there is only one square metre of state road to be repaired in Prekmurje - I have to say this because there is no longer one square metre of state road there, which would still be a macadamian road, but because there are certain places where economic damage is already done because of the state roads. I'm not going into my environment, I'm going to go into some other environment, so no one thinks I'm just on my own lawn. Today, if you want to enter the Poljanska Valley through Škofja Loko, it is virtually impossible at the end of the day without a major stalemate, without severe blood and so on. And to think that another part of this state road is in such a state that it virtually prevents the normal economic growth of one of the key companies, such as the Alpine in the Jury. With this, I just apologize that this item is undernourished, but we cannot keep it at the expense of reducing the level of compensation for the municipalities. And what's next? Indeed, some environments may be satisfied because some smaller item on tolls will go in, but how many mayors, how many municipalities will this practically make worse the financial situation? And I think that's a bad solution. And I'm surprised at the government, I'm surprised. I must say that in this case, the Minister of Finance has severely reduced my great sympathy for him, in particular with this amended amendment. So I don't understand this approach. Additional funds are needed on tolls and it would be right for the government to bring them in at the start, without overplaying and working science from some solutions, which is unnecessary where the government is responsible for bringing ministers together, whether it is possible at the Ministry of Finance to obtain a billion and a half at the time of the formation of the budget for urgent needs at the Ministry of Transport, for the network of state roads, or not. However, I know it is necessary there, and we have been severely delayed for the third year by the volume of resources; the second question is where to find the source. So I'm just going to say one more thing about the amended amendment. Of course, that's what drew a lot of blood. Of course, because we take it where it's too small. It is also too little because, with instructions or instructions on how to prepare their budgets, the Ministry of Finance's instruction has already started with too much capital and has therefore been too small - and we are reducing it now. Of course, now with the amended amendment, at this point in the Ministry of Finance, we have found that the interest on short-term loans is a billion-and-a-half too big. Oh, my God! If anything is evident, it is evident what interest is on long-term and short-term loans, here from behind are contracts, there are laws back here, nothing else. At this point, all of a sudden, we find that we have a billion and a half free. I like that if it's true. And for this, the networks of state roads are somewhat, at least to the most urgent extent, "split" for this billion and a half. But I know it's all just one big con. And preparing such amendments, with such postulates, with such a foundation only sheds light on some unreality, in the first place of the Ministry of Finance. I am sorry, Madam Secretary of State, that you have disappointed me, but I have always had you, as a whole, under the current Minister, a somewhat better approach to what the actual situation is in public finances and which awaits us to be in, not just in the European Union, but in the monetary union. And that's why I find this approach kind of unreasonable, and I'm practically rejecting it. Surely I can't support such starting points, too, because I know they're not genuine, because they're kind of beautiful, and I'll say it at home, playful, but it's not a budget. The budget is not exactly so that at any time we will find it simple from an item that could not be reduced in all the time prepared, but now we find a billion and a half. All right, if this was so poorly planned, then this is good for the Slovenian Directorate for Roads and Good for State Roads. But I know this from some logic that this is impossible or impossible and I will not support such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u263	Good. My friend Rokavec has the floor. Only, Comrade Rokavec, if you'll allow me before I hand over the presidency to the Vice President. In the Roads Directorate, I already mentioned that you received the amendment of the three parliamentary groups as a matter of fact. We also have an amended amendment, although I understand the editorial changes in the amendment under order number 3 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Also in amendment 4 or amendment under order number 4. Also in the case of an amendment under order number 5, also in the case of an amendment under order number 6. These updated or amended editorially submitted amendments are on the bench. Please take this into account. My friend Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u264	Thank you for your word. Let me talk about the amendment under number 10. In fact, it is an amendment to provide an additional two hundred million funds for the main road Šentjakob-Zdni bridge at the section of the Devil-Zgornji Log. At this section is in the final stage - all preparations, all necessary project documentation. It is the last very tight throat in connection with both Lithium, Šmartna and the entire Zasavje v capital, towards the city of Ljubljana. In fact, every year on this road, we face too many fatalities, due mainly to dangerous road sections that are not regulated by the standards for which this road should be trained as soon as possible. In fact, the frequency of vehicles per day is also over 20,000 vehicles that pass this section daily and more in traffic peaks. The fact is that the country has paid more attention in recent years to resolving this issue, but I must admit that this area cannot be punished for failing to enter the so-called motorway programme. This area is one of four areas in the Republic of Slovenia, which has so-called parallel connecting roads to the highway program. Of course, their standards do not allow these roads to be safe. Moreover, the road in question makes it impossible that legally on this road, precisely because of this road section, heavy goods vehicles could be transported, legally transported and moved on this road to Lithuania and forward to Zasavje. Everything that is being transported along this road, precisely because of the unresolved road section, is being transported illegally. Where, of course, the duration of the rights is obtained by drivers, they shall pay the penalty or even prohibit the driving in some cases. This I think is absurd, which is absurd outside Ljubljana's door. I have already tabled this amendment on my first reading and even now. Despite the fact that the amount of 50 million funds is provided in the so-called mega amendment - but why? Because these funds would allow us to complete this dangerous section in the next three years and essentially resolve the key issue on this road, then there are problems on this road, but this is a key issue because it also prevents faster economic development in this area. Where's he taking? This amendment is actually taken inside, at the point of maintenance of state roads. I do not say that this is the best way, but it does give the possibility that such a ministry, such a directorate, also within the problems or issues that it solves in its package, even if this amendment is adopted, is actually trying those issues, it is the maintenance of the road, the resolution of the standards that are prescribed. I am convinced that in this whole package of segments it is possible to find 200 million over the year to resolve this issue. Only if it's good will. In fact, I appeal again to the National Assembly, to all Members and Members, indeed most of them are not here to reconsider and support this amendment when voting. Not because it has been submitted by a parliamentary group or because it is actually from the environment to which I belong, but mainly so that people can drive more safely on this road, and of course also whether or not they live in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to say another word, I am closing the debate and moving on to the debate on page 13 of the amendments. To discuss the amendment of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "encourage housing" with the user of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. Anybody want a word? Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. With this amendment, we propose to launch a project to help solve the first housing problem. In the context of the invitation to tender and the criteria set out in the invitation to tender, funds should be allocated to those who, for the first time in the current year, solve the first housing problem, which can be achieved by a signed contract or by concluding a multi-annual lease. The criteria for public tendering should be defined by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u267	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the sub-programme "planning, protection and water management" with the user of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia to the sub-programme of "stipendia" with the user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u268	Thank you for your word. With this amendment, I have been repeating myself as a Spanish follow-up since I came to this Parliament. I think it would be time for us to start this project once, and this is the co-financing of the project by the local community fellowship funds. I propose that the funds be allocated to co-financing the local scholarship funds and the budgetary funds set up by local communities and are established under Article 56 of the Public Finance Act. It is a fact that the country could, by means of its available mechanisms, accelerate the development of these local scholarship funds or budget funds, which could also begin to address the problem of sub-favourable and deficient professions, which are mainly rural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to the sub-programme "investment investments in hospitals" with the user of the Ministry of Health. Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam President. We tabled this amendment because in the budget these funds are moving away for the hospital Slovenj Gradec. As early as 2002, funds for 2005 amounted to 356 million 586 thousand. The 2003 budget earmarked these funds for 2005. Then, in the 2004 budget, these funds for 2005 were earmarked at 60 million. That's all I want to add. The investment departs from the realisation every year as the management of the hospital and the distribution of funds for the rehabilitation of certain facilities and the use of amortisation facilities were directed so that the facility was built in accordance with agreed dates set at the beginning. Well, that'll be all. Please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "support service in primary and secondary education" with the user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the two amendments to the sub-programme "help in secondary education" with the same user, namely the proposed amendment under number 1 of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and under number 2 of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on the last amendment, this is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "Youth Programmes" with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. Because nobody wants a word, I'm closing the debate on the amendments. The decision on the amendments and on the specific part of the budget will be made 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on this agenda item. We are moving on to the consideration of the plan for the development programmes of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. The decision on the development programme plan will be made in 15 minutes. So I am terminating this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue at 6.26 p.m. when we move to a vote on the proposals for decisions under agenda items 1 and 2 of this meeting. We therefore move on to decision-making under agenda items 1 and 2 at 18.26.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u272	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the Government. Before we proceed, allow me to introduce you to the following notice. Mr President of the National Assembly consulted with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the agreement is as follows: today we would try to complete agenda items 1 and 2; this is to vote on agenda items 1 and 2; tomorrow at 10 a.m. we would start by discussing agenda item 3 – this is by considering the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and then moving on to agenda 4th. Now we are moving on to the vote. Please, everyone who is not yet in the hall and you wish to give your voice to join us. We're moving on to break 1. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2004. We will first decide on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. We therefore decide on the general part of the proposal for amending the budget. We are voting on the general part of the draft amending budget for 2004. We're voting. Unfortunately, we have not been able to make the vote. May I have your attention, please? Secondly, we will vote on the general part of the draft amending budget for 2004. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 36 votes against 7. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for amending the budget has been adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the amendments to the specific part of the draft amending budget for 2004. We will lead the vote as well as the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments to the draft amending budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 of 10.12.2003. First, we will vote on two amendments to the sub-programme supporting the nationalities communities with the user of the Nationality Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Both amendments have been tabled by the Commission for National Communities, the parent working body and the Government of the Amendment do not support. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 14 to 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 17 votes against 31. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite to a sub-programme for the coordination of activities in the process of integration into the European Union with the user of the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for European affairs. We're voting. The government and the mother's working body support the amendment. There are 49 of us present, 24 votes against 19. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the decision on the amendment of Dr Jožef Bernik to the programme of State obligation to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance with the user of the Ministry of Finance. Vote explanation, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u273	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. So we have proposed an amendment or a colleague of Bernik to finally settle that irregularity or irregularity in relation to the craftsmanship fund that has been going on for years. The Prime Minister himself said last year, in his role as Finance Minister, that this was a matter of time before all financial problems concerning the crafts fund were resolved quickly. Here is our contribution to really getting rid of it not only at the verbal level, but also in fact. That is why we are surprised, and in particular the amendment that the government has decided not to support it. So, don't be serious, I see Members talking, they don't mean it. Therefore, I urge you to really think about the implementation of your Prime Minister's obligations and also the words.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u274	Thank you very much. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world, to the sub-programme "support to Slovenians in the place and abroad", with the user of the RS Office for Slovenians in the place and in the world. Vote explanation, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Support to Slovenians in the territory and abroad. This is a topic that has been dealt with very macholy in this country for many years. It's time to change our mind. Why is it time to change our attitude? From 1 May forward, Slovenians will live in a single ethnic space for the first time in the millennium on this continent. It's the first time in a thousand years. The Slovenian State has a great duty to do this. Who, if not the Slovenian state, will care that the actual vocabulary will otherwise come to life in this new framework that is now open to us? We're not thinking too much about these things, we're not thinking too much about these things, but the fact is, for the first time in thousands of years, we're going to be in a single ethnic space. It's time to make some funds for that, too. I'm sure you'd like a lot more than he's here. But that's the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u276	Thank you very much. So we are moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. It was 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't supported. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Group of Members, with the first signed by Davorin Terčon, to the sub-programme "training and functioning of the emergency intervention system", with the user of the Management of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. The vote was 9 to 44. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Dorian Marsic to the sub-programme "international cooperation" with the same user. We're voting. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. The vote was 43 to 9. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same candidates to the sub-programme "training and defence system". We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 47 votes against 6. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We're moving on to a decision on the Mag's amendment. Janez Drobnič to the sub-programme "Promotion of Technological Development of the Economy" with the user Ministry of Economy. Vote explanation, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. The main objective of the amendment is that the funds planned by the Government will be distributed over the appropriate criteria to companies likely at the time of the electoral campaign to allocate them for technological development and other targeted programmes. This is a much better direction and we therefore propose that this amendment be supported. Apparently, there is no money left on this item for textile, leather and footwear industries. Obviously, we have lost our will to deal with them, so we believe that at least these resources need to be targeted for development and technological purposes. This will make Slovenia more competitive, but there will be no problems with distribution, a political basis, which may happen if it goes as far as the scenario is concerned. So support the amendment of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u278	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Aloyz Soka to the sub-programme "rural development programme" with the user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 14 votes to 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amended Davorin Terčona amendment to the sub-programme "operation of services and public institutions" with the same user. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 14 votes against 39. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of Aloys Sok to the sub-programme "plant and animal health" with the same user. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same proposer, to a sub-programme of "expert and advisory tasks, education and research" with the same user. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Club to the sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u279	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand the proposaler who would like to increase funds for the functioning of the public forestry service, especially now that they have proposed so, I would say, a famous law on game and hunting. This law will bring certain workers who are now employed in these breeding grounds into this service. This will increase the obligations of the forestry public service, which has already had problems. I do not understand, however, that the money for this purpose would be sought by the applicants from the ECO-0 payments. However, the EKO-0 payments are, of course, something that the Republic of Slovenia has agreed on in Brussels and which has also been determined through this pre-accession negotiation system and what we have signed. It is not acceptable for direct payments to be diverted for any other purpose. I therefore strongly oppose such an amendment and therefore cannot vote in favour of the amendment. There are also some such amendments that touch or take the necessary money from ECO-0 payments. This means, of course, that those who propose this do not understand the importance of direct payments or do not understand the common agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u280	Thank you very much. We are therefore passing the Explanation of the Voice, Mr Jerovšek, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment either, because I believe that this amendment is intended, in accordance with the new hunting law, to be used for the privileged or dedicated hunting organisations and others, for the purpose of regulating the fisheries and so on. I think that this is a very long-term amendment, which already foresees means to realize those purposes that are a little hidden in that law, but still clear enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich's explanation for the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u283	I don't know if it's necessary, because it's very hard to believe that he doesn't believe that it's simply within the ministry to do something that's actually been put down at some stage and that things are being handled the way we've done this year for this job. Things are arranged and coordinated to be remedied in this way. No hunters, no hunters, no law about hunting. However, that the Forest Office has certain tasks, including in this area, is clear and, therefore, I will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u285	Thank you very much. In fact, it would be easier if we wrote in this amendment, "we'll take the direct producers, that is, we'll take the farmers and give them to the officials." That's how you read it. The fact that liberal democracy is taking and giving to farmers all the time is their policy. I cannot support such a modus operandi, from the one who works and creates, to give to consumers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u287	I will, of course, support this amendment myself for very simple reasons. This service is truly in dire distress, even so that when someone retires, they do not replace this job with a new worker, because there is simply no means to do this work. The tasks of the passport are of course of such nature that we should hire new people. There will certainly be no harm in agriculture if we put this money in a public forestry institution. Finally, forestry is financed by agriculture from its activities, mainly through concessions, from state forests, so this difference will be paid many times from forests, even if we accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Once again we are faced with this issue, which we are also dealing with in the budget rebalancing, I do not think it is a year from now. I'm sure this isn't the right way. It is the responsibility of the State or the Ministry or the Government to provide funds for salaries to civil servants. And that will certainly assure them. I object to taking money from those items whose purpose is very clearly defined. This country has also signed certain obligations regarding the common agricultural policy and I am sure that we must stick to this. And why exactly from the EKO-0 payments? Why, say, didn't you find any other sources? It says here that the government does not support this amendment. But if one of the individuals in this government might have ordered this money to be taken, I don't think it's right. We have to watch what the government supports. The masters will not lose their salary even if this amendment is not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Madam President. This is one of those rare amendments we don't see many times. In the sense that the government does not support it, while coalition parties support this proposal. I would like to see Mrs State Secretary explain to the rest why the government is smarter than the parties that support it and what the reason is. I've already asked for another amendment to explain, and there was nothing. Now I want to hear the reasons behind this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Dr. Bernick, when we're in a phase where we can only explain our vote, I can't give the floor to the Secretary of State. Your colleagues who were on the Committee on Finance will be able to explain to you because that is where the debate was going on. Mr. Bajuk, explanation of voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I will vote against this amendment. Indeed, the arguments we heard on the Committee on Finance were not convincing, nor are they now. However, I would like to remind those colleagues who are willing to vote to read the draft law on the implementation of the budget, which you will certainly adopt tomorrow, where the government has an immense opportunity to do practically what it wants on the basis of wages. So, the argument that now all of a sudden the jobs will be reduced, that there will be no money for wages, is perfect barrenness because the government has scissors and canvas in its hands. So there has to be another argument, and you haven't said it yet, so I'm going to support the government. Not with pleasure, but with conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u295	Thank you very much. And I'll hold out here, and I'll tell you about the replacement of retired workers. On radio and television, Koper had six program workers retired in one year, which the LDS had been informed about. Liberal democracy of Slovenia knew that, in writing. You've previously rejected an amendment that would allow for four jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u297	Thank you for your word. I will vote against this amendment, although without any hope of success this amendment would be rejected. The problem with this amendment is that it is not intended to secure wages. The problem and message of this amendment is where it needs to be taken - so I see it. In fact, tomorrow, if we accept ZIPRO, we will have countless opportunities to provide salaries for all public servants. Another problem is the different definition of public servants in agriculture and forestry, in this house and in the government. Indeed, public servants in the field of forestry are currently receiving allowances for senior administrative workers following the adoption of this Regulation by the Government. We will not see such a thing in any other public service in the field of agriculture. However, this is the way to address this area of activity. I regret that this is the way to deal with it and that we always face amendments in this area in Parliament. I simply believe that we are doing the most injustice here, especially to the services and also to the agricultural workers, who are placed in a highly uneven position. But the creators of these differences will have to take responsibility for it sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Ašić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u299	Thank you very much. I think we're really doing the wrong thing to the woodsmen. Because we already found a mistake at about the same time last year, which the government acknowledged at the time, and then we ensured the operation of the institution this year by means of an amendment. Why? Tell me why the government did not take this into account and prepare the budget in the 2005 updated version as well, so that I will not then advertise again, from the position we started with last year's adopted amendment. Why do we always have to fight for the woodsmen? Just for nothing. If they were in the same house, this is the same as all in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, then, clearly, they would take this into account and draw up from this last year and this year's item such a proposal for a plan for 2004 and also for 2005 so that this unpleasant debate would not be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u300	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u301	Question. I would like to ask if your proposal, or your generous offer, is that Madam Secretary of State still valid or if you have withdrawn it during this time?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u302	Dr. Bernick, I don't think we got along. Unfortunately, there is no procedural possibility that I now give the floor to a representative of the government. We are in the decision-making phase, and all we can do is explain the voice. That is true, and we cannot do anything else now. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 41 votes against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the two amendments to the sub-programme - the fisheries development programme. Under 1 I will decide on the amendment of Mr Alojs Sok and under 2 Maria Gasparini. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 14 votes to 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 12 votes against 34. [[For the vote 12]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Aloys Sok to the sub-programme - means to build highways. I very much ask for peace so that there will be no mistake about Mr Sok's amendment to the subroutine - the means to build highways. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 17 votes against 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the sub-programme of investment activities on railway infrastructure. The proposer shall be the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to a number of amendments. May I have your attention, please? I'm sorry. We will vote in the order of seven amendments to the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads", with the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, we vote on the amendment of Mr Aloys Sok, which is under order number 1. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on an amendment under 2, Mr. Branko Kelemina. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 14 votes against 43. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 3, mag. Janez Petty Officer. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on an amendment under 4, proposed by Rudolph Petan. I'm sorry. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on an amendment under 5, proposed by Jozet Tank. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under 6, proposed by Mr Janez Drobnic. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 15 votes against 40. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're still deciding on the last amendment under 7, Mark Diacia's proposal. Voice explanation, Mr. Diaci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u303	Thank you for your word. This is a 3 million tolar presentation under the same user and within the same sub-programme. The mother's working body supports the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u304	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 38 votes against 16. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Mr Butolen's amendment to the sub-programme "planning, protection and water management". We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Alojs Sok to the sub-programme "preservation of biodiversity and protection of natural values". We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Alojz Sok to the sub-programme "encouraging the use of renewable energy sources" with the user of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for efficient use and renewable energy. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 11 votes against 39. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Mr Janez Drobnič to the sub-programme "ensure social inclusion" with the user of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Explanation of voice. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u305	The amendment is meant for this. I will vote for this amendment and the reason is simple. If we have already decided on a constitutional change to ensure equal opportunities for people with disabilities, then it is good that this amendment is supported by the rest. Of course I will. If not, there will remain a declaration in the constitution as only a written letter on paper. This is about speeding up the employment of disabled people. As you know, unemployment is on the rise, thanks to this government, and this would be a small contribution to halting this negative trend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u306	Thank you very much. So we decide on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same proposer to the sub-programme "creation of new jobs and increasing the flexibility of businesses" with the same user. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on Mr Jožef Bernik's amendment to the sub-programme "preservation, restoration and construction of monuments". We're voting! There are 59 of us in attendance. It was 15 votes against 42. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Mr Janez Drobnič, a sub-programme of'veterinary organisations'. We're voting! There are 60 of us present, 12 votes against 47. (For the vote was 12.)(against 47.) I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same proposer to the sub-programme of home and shelter. We're voting! There are 56 of us present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same proposer to the sub-programme "Social Protection of the Old". We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 9 votes against 43. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on two amendments to the user's Ministry of Health, namely the sub-programme "investment investments in hospitals" under the 1st amendment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and under 2 members' groups, with the first signed Davorin Terčon. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting! There are 57 of us present, 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. Vote explanation, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Since it's a re-attack on the ECO-0 asset, I feel a duty to come forward. I have no objection to investing in public health institutions in order to continue the reform of Kebro in this way, but the applicants again intervene in the EKO-0 funds, which, as I said before, are considered a measure of the common European agricultural policy, which Slovenia has also agreed and signed in the framework of the European Union. It is clear that in LDS they have decided to invade the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food or Minister Booth. Anyone who had 5 minutes of time just remembered and invented that certain funds could be taken from ECO-0 and earmarked for some other purpose. It is obvious that this is the way he tries to continue to account with Slovenian farmers, but of course this is not the right way. I cannot vote for such an amendment. However, I have come to my attention because, as soon as possible, one of the LDS Members proposes an amendment, of course, there is always a great danger that it will be accepted, even if it is stupid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u308	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. The vote was 9 to 44. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are with the user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, which decides on the amendment of the group of Members, with the first signed Sam Bevko, to the sub-programme "general, secondary and vocational education". We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 12, against 41. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, to a sub-programme of support services in primary and secondary education. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 11 to 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Three amendments have been tabled for the sub-programme "help in secondary education", and we will vote on them in order. First, on the amendment under 1, proposed by Jožet Tank, under the 2 members of the Youth Slovenia Party and under the 3rd Mr Janez Drobnič. First, we vote on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. The vote was 12, against 42. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. The vote was 16 to 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 3. There are 54 of us present. The vote was 11 to 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, to the sub-programme "Youth Programmes", with the user, Office of Youth. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. The vote was 9 to 40. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the three amendments to the programme "other programmes in culture" with the user of the Ministry of Culture, under 1 is the amendment of the commission for the national community, under 2 and below 3 is also the proposer of the commission for the national community. First, we decide on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 8 votes against 29. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're moving on to an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 20 votes against 29. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. More on the amendment under 3. Explanation of voice. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u309	Thank you very much. I will vote for this amendment, even though it was more important than it was before. As with the co-financing of RTV programmes earlier, this is also the case when the government in the basic proposal proposes what it has put into the original version of the 2004 budget. Imagine people who have to manage these funds and who first count with them at the beginning of the year, plan work for the whole year, according to these resources, and then at the end of the year, they are deprived of these funds. This is legal certainty that is being created here in relation to national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Marshich, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I agree with my colleague Battelli that the previous amendments were better than those, unfortunately they were not voted on. I think we need to listen to what Comrade Battelli is saying as a national assembly. The problem with the financing of the national community in Slovenia is pressing. What my colleague Battelli said earlier in the introduction, as a representative of the National Community Commission, is horrifying. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment. If you have feelings for our nationalities and especially their problems, do the same or the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, explanation for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u313	Thank you for your word. I'll support the amendment. I have also supported the previous amendments, which allocated funds to the national communities, because I am convinced that the constitutional provisions of the special protection of the national communities must also be implemented in particular financial care. I am sure that, with the support of this amendment, we would at least correct the bad taste by not supporting any of the amendments so far, although Mr Battelli felt that better support would be one of the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. There are 58 of us present, in favour of 42 votes against 11. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Ana Marija Tisovic for a new subroutine with the user of the Ministry of Culture. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four coalition groups to the sub-programme "solution of Hercules' judicial backlogs" with the user of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will vote in favour of this amendment, in the conviction that now I have even better information, that the explanation will actually be valid and will have to report to the national assembly within six months on what they are actually doing with these funds. I think it is crucial that this is happening because the funds themselves, without some open debate on how to solve these problems in the National Assembly, based on the fact that we have already allocated the funds, will be impossible to achieve what we all want. I will support this amendment under this condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u317	I will support this amendment myself, even though I must say that this interview with Norman Dukoff has actually warned me about a lot of things. What is written in this interview is also true in many ways about the functioning of our judicial system. Above all, Slovenian judges will have to understand this finding correctly, not as they have opposed it, and that what Dr. Bajuk said will be ensured external control. For without control these funds, which we will grant today, will not achieve their purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u319	I'm gonna break this amendment myself, but I'm gonna break it myself with mixed feelings. Also in the belief that it will help to change the mentality of Slovenian courts, as Dr Dukoff referred to as the main problem of Slovenian courts, in addition to reducing backlogs. That's right, I have experience. When a court first invites a defendant who has not been mentioned at all in the investigation, not at all, after eleven and a half years, this is not a trial within the time limit. This is far beyond the backlog and in such cases it is a political trial. But this is the problem of so many prosecutions and courts in Slovenia. I hope that these days the courts will come so far as to resist political trials, political processes. For after twelve years is the man who is, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] However, he did not realize that he would ever be convicted or had already been told that all procedures had been stopped, nor could he defend himself. [[...]] Such a person is faced with a political process and unfortunately this is still happening in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Now I think we can move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amended amendment of Maximilian Lavrinz to the sub-programme "indemnifications for the unjustifiably convicted and for proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights" with the user of the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 34 votes against 7. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the sub-programme "Administrative of the Ombudsman". We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Just a moment, please. We have therefore made decisions on the amendments. We are now moving on to a decision on the specific part of the draft amending the budget as a whole. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 41 votes against 15. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for amending the budget has been fully adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the 2004 draft amending budget plan for the development programmes. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the development programme plan has also been adopted. We have therefore concluded our decision on individual parts of the draft amending budget. I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy whether the changes in the state budget regarding revenue and expenditure are harmonised. Here you go, Mrs. Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u321	Thank you very much. In view of the amendments adopted, I note that the individual parts of the budget are not harmonised among themselves, and therefore a coordinated amendment is needed, which means that the general part of the budget should not be adapted to the changes voted on by the amendments, but rather to the structure. There will also need to be some corrections to the development programme plan, so I propose that the Finance Committee prepare this amendment, adopt it and then decide again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u322	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I note that the changes in the state budget are not harmonised. The government should prepare an amendment by tomorrow to harmonise changes to the state budget. Until the amendment of the government, the mother labour body will also be identified. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. The mother's working body will prepare a harmonisation amendment. If that's what you agreed, I apologize. I understood that the government would prepare these amendments and that the mother's working body would be defined. So it's the other way around. The harmonisation amendments shall be prepared by the parent working body. This can be different from what we agree on. If agreed, the amendments shall be prepared by the home working body, the government shall be designated by them. So I'm breaking up the 1st item of the agenda. We continue with the broken 2nd item of the agenda. Procedural proposal, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u323	I ask because in the morning, when we started the meeting, the President of Parliament said we would be working until 7 p.m. Now it's 6:30, and I suggest you stick to it and continue tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. I'm sorry. After consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the National Assembly briefed me and asked me to inform you at the beginning of the decision-making point that we will vote today on the decisions taken today. This is what has been agreed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Please. Is that right? May I continue? I continue with the end of item 2 of the agenda - dealing with the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2005. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. 41 votes against 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. We will vote on the basis of the amendment review of 8.12.2003. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Madam President, is it not possible to vote on all the amendments in full, because in fact this liturgy, that we are pressing on, forgive us for expressing our will, because it is okay, but it is clear that the great coalition supports every time the government decides something, I think it would make no sense to follow the details. That's exactly the same thing we've been through on our finance committee, because we're hostages of this rule of law. I would suggest we do what we do now, and it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u326	Thank you very much. In fact, I did not hope to make such a proposal, although the Rules of Procedure allow the President to decide and, I apologize for finding this article. I know that we have accepted that the President may determine which articles are adopted. Then someone may object, but according to an unexpected proposal, you have to give me a minute to review and make your point. If anyone disagrees, we will decide on that amendment when you disagree. I think that's what the rules say. Allow me to inform you of the text of Article 136, which states that the National Assembly may decide to jointly discuss two or more articles to which amendments have been tabled and shall jointly vote on the amendments to this Article. In the cases referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Chair may decide that the amendment has been adopted or has not been adopted if, on the basis of the discussion, the outcome of the possible vote on the amendment is assessed. The chairman is obliged to vote on an individual amendment if the Government so requests when it is not the amendment's proposer, the amendment's proposer or the parliamentary group. The vote shall be held without discussion and explanation of vote. In this case, if someone thought that I had misjudged, a vote would be taken. Only one question is, Mrs Velišček checks if this could also apply in the case of the adoption of the budget when the rules of procedure are laid down in a specific part, otherwise you could use this if, of course, you so agree to vote on Mr Diaca, please choose. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. The Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia wants to vote on its amendments individually.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u328	Thank you very much. I think it's obviously a demanding thing. We are therefore moving on to the vote. First of all on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to the sub-programme "regional development programmes of direct regional incentives" to the user of the RS Structural Policy and Regional Development Service. We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to the sub-programme "additional funds to municipalities", the user of the Ministry of Finance. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 11 votes against 42. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to the sub-programme "criminal activity" with the user of the Police. We're voting! There are 58 of us present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same applicants to the sub-programme "Social Protection Compensation for Production Restructuring", user of the Ministry of Economy. We're voting! There are 57 of us present, 10 votes against 42. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme "rural development programme" with the user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 12 votes against 43. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to the sub-programme "earth operation". We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 12 votes against 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to the sub-programme "expert and advisory tasks, education and research". We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 12 votes against 42. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same proposer to the sub-programme "reduction of agricultural damage". We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Club to the sub-programme "operation of services and public institutions". Mr. Juban, explain your voice, please - on the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u329	Thank you very much. This time I will not vote for this amendment. But the reasons are as follows. The EKO-0 was created because there was some administrative regulation of prices on the market and about as much as they decreased, but the state covered under the EKO-0 programme, these are so-called direct payments. There are some reasons. While this item will not collapse the whole item in the budget, it does not seem to me in any way in principle to reduce the item in this way. The second reason is, there may be somewhere else, but in this department of the Ministry, there's a practice: make red numbers, and we get money. And since we have done this before - for the third time now - it is very unpopular for me to say this, because most of the foresters are very good and they are not personally guilty of this, perhaps some guidance - that they have not organized themselves like other services to reorganize and rationalize. And now the practice of harvesting is: let's make red numbers and the state will provide money. There is something similar and even worse in the veterinary administration, which received an additional 30% in two years, including red numbers and chloramphenicol. I'll vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Can we move on to a decision? Yes, you can. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, in favour of 28 votes against 20. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the amended amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to the sub-programme "fishing development programme". We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 14 votes against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to the sub-programme of "road building" with the user of the Ministry of Transport. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, a sub-programme of "investment activities on rail infrastructure". We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 12 votes against 37. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the ten amendments to the sub-programme "investment maintenance and construction of state roads" with the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. First, under 1 we decide on the amendment of three parliamentary groups. Explanation of voice. Here you go, Dr. Bayuk. I'm sorry about the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u331	That's on item 2415.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u332	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u333	Amendment, three parliamentary groups, LDS, United List and SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u334	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u335	I will vote against this amendment. You know, dear colleagues, that's sad what you wrote here. This date is 11.12.2003. You signed this today. Today, when the Minister of Finance said that everything was so tight that nothing could move. Here you are proposing, you will take interest on domestic debt, which represents almost 3% of everything on this item either prepared or foreseen, because interest will fall faster in 2005 than anticipated. The explanation is ridiculous, empty, and in fact an insult to your minister. Thank you very much. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u336	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 40 votes against 12. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under 2, New Slovenia's parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. The vote was 11 to 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the amended amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group under order number 3. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. The vote was 14 to 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amended amendment of the same motions, under order number 4. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. The vote was 11 to 41. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amended amendment of the same applicants under order number 5. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. It was 12 votes against 39. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amended amendment of the same candidates under order number 6. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. It was 10 votes against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the same candidates, under order number 7. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. The vote was 8 to 43. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the same candidates under order number 8. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. The vote was 8 to 42. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Members of the Youth Slovenia Group under order number 9. We're voting. There are 53 of us present. Vote 6 to 45. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the last amendment under 10. This is the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Vote explanation, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u337	Thank you for your word. It is the main road Ljubljana-Sentjakob-Zidani bridge, to resolve one of the hottest bottlenecks on this road, which prevents normal road traffic for all heavy motor vehicles, and in particular enables illegal traffic, because otherwise the economy cannot have contact with the world at all. This road, however, causes several deaths each year. Something's already done on this road. If we supported this amendment, we would allow it to be possible for the next three years, not one year, but in the next three years, to remove this bottleneck and actually allow for normal traffic in this area, especially safe traffic on this road. I am convinced that people in both Lithium and Zasavje are not allowed and are not entitled to be punished because they cannot be in the highway work. In this way they are also disabled if this road is not properly arranged, in fact safe driving, as much as safe driving to and from Ljubljana. I will vote in favour of this amendment and I suggest you support me because it actually takes it inside the station. And inside the department, if it's good will, that money will be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u338	So we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 17 votes against 35. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia to the sub-programme "encouragement of housing". We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 9 votes against 42. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to the sub-programme for water planning, protection and management by the user of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 14 votes against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia to the sub-programme of "stypendy". Explanation of voice. Here you go, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u339	Thank you for your word. When I first suggested that our amendments should be voted on separately, I proposed mainly because of this amendment, which I have been dealing with since 2001. It's about these local community fellowship funds. I ask that you support this amendment and that these matters begin to be implemented in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u340	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 11 votes against 37. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of "investment investments in hospitals", user of the Ministry of Health, proposed by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 17 votes against 34. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "support service in primary and secondary education", user of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 8 votes against 42. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to the sub-programme "help in secondary education" and under 2 on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia to the same sub-programme. Under 1 is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are still voting on the amendment under 2. We're voting! There are 54 of us present, 7 votes against 44. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also voting on the last amendment, namely the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "Youth Programmes" with the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have therefore ended the vote on the amendments. We will now move on to a decision on the specific part of the completed draft budget as a whole. We're voting! I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Mr. Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u341	However this cycle of amending and supplementing the 2004 budget took place, I have already said in my own reading that it is simply impossible to talk on the one hand about more coherent regional development and, on the other hand, to show exactly the opposite in the budget. Also from data, only from the replacement of building plots, it has been shown that around 20% more resources are collected in 11 municipalities, with about one third of the population, and in the other 180,182 municipalities and two thirds of the population of Slovenia. Of course, if you look at the numbers that speak of the so - called appropriate consumption and the funds in one of the city’s municipalities or in one of the other congregations, you find that the difference is 40%. In short, with such a revised budget for 2004, you have actually made a clear and loud announcement of the abolition of about 150 Slovenian municipalities. I will not support this, and therefore I will not support such an update of the 2004 draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u342	Thank you very much. We accept the updated draft budget for 2005; perhaps you will be better pleased here, Mr Pukšič. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the 2005 supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 43 votes against 11. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that a specific part of the supplementary draft budget has been fully adopted. We are now moving on to a decision on the plan for the development programmes of the supplementary draft budget. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 39 votes against 14. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have therefore concluded the decision on individual parts of the complementary proposal for the state budget. I ask the representative of the government, Mrs Kamnarje, whether the state budget proposal for revenue or expenditure is harmonised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u343	This budget has also had the same uncoordinated effect as in the previous one, so I propose that the Finance Committee prepare a coherent amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-12-11-SDZ3-Izredna-37.ana.u344	Thank you very much. On the basis of the opinion of the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I find that the draft state budget is not harmonised. The Home Committee, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy will have by tomorrow an amendment to harmonise changes to the state budget. The Government will also be defined by the amendment of the Home Committee. So I interrupt this item on the agenda and allow the following notification. The Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Pucko, informs you that the 55th meeting will be necessary tomorrow at 9.45 a.m. in room 212. Thank you all so much and good night.
