ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues! I want a good and successful day today! It'll be a long, late night in the National Assembly. We'll start with two. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE IMPLEMENTATION LAW 8. POTENTIAL DECISIONS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA No. U-1-246/02-28. At its 12th meeting on 5 November this year, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on the enforcement of the 8th paragraph of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I suppose, first of all, within five minutes, he would like to explain the decision of the Council of State by its member, Mr Jože Ilc. Before I give him my word, let me just let you know which colleagues and colleagues will be absent today for other duties. These are colleagues of Jakič, Kacin, Kangler, Kelemina, Peterle and Štemberger; they are present and will participate. I now call for a further explanation of the decision to request the reinstatement of Mr Jožet Ilc, a member of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. You have a chance and I'm asking you to perform.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! The State Council has adopted a suspension veto. This is the case for the enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision relating to the question of the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the law governing the residence of citizens of the former Yugoslav State. In this sense, the Council of State sees inconsistencies as this constitutional decision dictates the issue - at least so proposed - of two laws, of which it is challenged, as well as the law on the permanent residence of foreigners with the citizenship of other successor states of the former SFRJ. Why two laws about the same matter? It's just some kind of duplication, a lack of seriousness and an irregularity to me. It is always said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected, but a return invoice must also be given; the Constitutional Court must also comply with those rules which make it legal. Therefore, the most problematic point here is the 8th point, which is also the subject of a law under which the Constitutional Court ordered the Ministry of the Interior to issue new decisions on an official basis. Allow me, the Constitutional Court shall decide on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution and shall not order the people and the administrative authorities to decide. Here is a mistake and an irregularity that we always keep in mind and must not happen again as a new mistake and a new problem. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court is practically legitimizing retroactivity here. Pursuant to Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, retroactivity is not permissible unless the public benefit so requires; what is public benefit is not defined here. When the Constitutional Court stumbles into the issue of law and repeals it, it mentions that the deadline was too short and that the concept of the actual state of affairs is legally undeclared. I don't think that's right, because the deadline was three months plus "vacatio legis" for 60 days, that's five months. But we do know that the Constitutional Court constantly imposes a deadline of 6 months for [[...]] [[Undecided.]] laws. I'd rather not talk about this undefined concept, it's so simple that it can't be any more. The question of how to deal with these constitutional rights is always repeated here. The point is, if we are speaking, both the Covenant on Civil and Human Rights as well as the European Convention on Human Rights in the Fourth Protocol, establishing and establishing free movement, but on condition that everyone who is legally located in the territory of a particular State, i.e. everyone who also respects laws, is subject to these laws. There is certainly no constitutional or other right for anyone to freely choose the rules under which he or she will act, and also for everyone to decide when to adopt a certain status or other. If we assume that the choice of nationality is free, then there is no arbitrariness whatsoever to decide which rules will apply from it. Finally, the Council of State has always pointed out the financial consequences. If it is claimed that they cannot be determined, then it could be the same as adopting a budget in which income is fixed, but they would not know what expenditure is. These financial consequences are unpredictable, claims are already existing and very high. As a result, the position of the State Council for the suspension veto is justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Ilc, a member of the state council. I now give the floor to the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. Mr Lavrinc, President, will present the opinion of the Committee and then we will ask for the opinion of the Minister and we will hear the views of the members of the groups. First of all, the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, Comrade Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee shall draw up an opinion on the request of the Council of State. You got your opinion in the rapporteur. After an introductory presentation, which I will not repeat, the representative of the Council of State felt that the Council of State had given a superficial assessment of the matter. He also believed that it was a corrective relationship both in the adoption of the law and in the drafting process, I will say, this opinion from our side. Therefore, the following was also highlighted by the Committee. For the first time, many times, and this will be repeated also later, that it is not a law that is given to anyone in any way, but a law that was created on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court which governs an area that is, in fact, already regulated in some way, so some of them call it a technical law. That's the first one. Secondly, of course, they were in the debate, and this was not particularly stressed, the demands were made to name those who blamed the situation. The Committee did not support such a proposal. In the debate, however, it was crystallized as to who are the ones who can pin this laurice on their condition. Of course, there have also been conflicting opinions that no law is needed or that anything has been done wrong in the past period has been the case since 1992. I think that the last doubts about the large majority of the Members and Members of the Committee have also come to light after an additional explanation by the representative of the proposed law. The Committee therefore adopted a decision, which is also proposed to the National Assembly, to re-vote the law with force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Comrade Lavrinz, Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. The representative of the government, Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc, will present the opinion and then, as it is said, the views of the members of the groups. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to talk about some of the facts that are important in relation to today's decision-making and are linked to the resolution of the deleted status. First of all, I would like to state that the decisions of the Constitutional Court need to be enforced in the rule of law, which is a condition for the credibility of the authorities of the State before their own and European public. The law we are talking about provides for a partial way of implementing the Constitutional Court decision. It provides the legal basis for issuing decisions establishing permanent residence for all foreigners who are in the Republic of Slovenia after 25. 2. 1992 has already proven permanent residence or permanent life in the Republic of Slovenia in the administrative process. In order to enforce the Constitutional Court decision, it is necessary to adopt a law, and ten experts in constitutional and administrative law have signed an opinion that the law must be adopted in order to implement the 8th point of that constitutional decision. Those who claim that administrative decisions are permissible to be issued directly on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court do not have the right to issue them. It is also unrealistic to claim that, under the technical law, they will be allowed to stay behind even those who did not stay in Slovenia or who have not already proved this in the administrative procedure. Anyone who receives a decision has once had to prove to the authorities of the Slovenian State the real life or permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia from the day of plebiscite. There's something else about compensation claims. The technical law does not provide any additional legal basis for the possible enforcement of compensation claims for damage caused. This has been shared by a number of the most respected civil, constitutional and administrative experts in the written opinion. The technical law does not mention damage to compensation, compensation claims or anything like that. Whoever claims that any damage has been caused to him by the State by means of annihilation will have to prove it before the court under the general rules of bond law. So far, no one has proved any harm in this regard, nor has the court awarded compensation to anyone. The alleged injured party should also prove in court what he has done to ensure that the damage does not arise, whether he has taken advantage of all the possibilities for regulating his status offered to him by the State. Last but not least, he's going to have to apply compensation within a five-year limitation period. It is therefore not true that the legal regulation of the status of deleted persons provides a basis for the payment of high compensation. The references to the enormous amounts to be reported in public are without professional grounds. Since 1992, or perhaps since 1999, when the Constitutional Court first ruled on illegality or non-compliance with the law on the regulation of the status of foreigners, the Ministry of the Interior has received all seven claims for compensation and all of them in turn are unfounded, unrealistic and therefore unfounded. Investors claim various forms of intangible damage, mental pain, loss of employment, inability to exercise social rights and so on. There is no basis for all of this in the legislation. In particular, I would like to speak a sentence or two about compensations that are listed or damage to pensions and employment. Most of the rights that can be exercised from pension and disability insurance are not linked to citizenship and are not linked to permanent residence. Pension and disability insurance rights are rights that are mostly linked to the payment of contributions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. Retirement is a remuneration which is also indicated to beneficiaries abroad. Other rights of a social nature are not paid abroad. Therefore, the claim of loss of pensions, including military, disability or employment rights or the possibility of compensation, does not have any professional support, as the situation of the deleted did not result in the loss of these rights. Your Honor! By implementing the Constitutional Court decision, the Slovenian State must maintain before the domestic and international public the reputation of a legally regulated, democratic state. In any event, it will also be able to safeguard its material interests in the event that this is necessary because of possible compensation claims, it does not show that this is necessary so far. I propose that you reject or do not support the veto of the State Council. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are now moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. The presentation will begin with colleague Majda Zupan. It will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. And I'll put my word behind her to my colleague Diaction. First of all, like my colleague Zupanov said. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! The veto voted in the State Council to enforce the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision relating to the determination of the status of the permanent residence of the disappeared inhabitants of Slovenia in return means re-decision in the National Assembly. With everything that's been said about this law, it's hard to add anything else. However, we would like to draw attention to some aspects. First time. The fundamental principle of democracy should also be respect for order. In doing so, we refer to the eight decisions of the Constitutional Court which have not yet been implemented, from the oldest in 1997, which relates to the Income Act, to the decision concerning the division of the Kori Municipality and all others. We would expect the National Assembly not to choose, but to follow the chronological order. Another time. Incomprehensible is the period between 1994 and 1999, when the Constitutional Court found the illegality of the deletion. This raises the question whether the decision of the Constitutional Court depends more on the composition or on the constitution. Third time. The claim that all of those covered by the 8th point, already dealt with in 1999, is not true because in 1997 the condition for permanent residence was three years in Slovenia and from 1992 to 1997 it was more than three years. Fourth time. The question is rightly raised whether the so-called deleted also actually lived in Slovenia on 25.2.1992. The adoption of the proposed law would be to reward those who did not sign out, although they later returned illegally or with passports from other countries. Fifth. This law does not solve problems, but creates new ones because it discriminates against former Yugoslav citizens who do not have the nationality of one of the former SFRJ countries, but only the citizenship of the European Union. Six. The law is not comprehensive and has been offered after the shortening of the procedure for catching the time limit laid down by the Constitutional Court. The deadline has already been delayed and the so-called system law is being considered. It's a week. Two laws deal with the same subject and try to solve the issue of so-called deleted ones. The idea is that two laws just in case one fell into a referendum. The eighth, and lastly not least, problem of financial implications remains in the unforeseeable dimension. We will not support the law in the New Slovenia Group of Members, as we did not for the first time. However, we support the initiative to call for a referendum where citizens and citizens would be asked whether to confirm the law which, for all time since 26.2.1992, recognized the right to permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia to the citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia who lived in Slovenia until 25.2.1992 but did not take over Slovenian citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Zupanov. My friend Marko Diaci. Will you do it? Please. Mr Levič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u10	Respectable National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! In the opinion of the Party of Young Slovenia, the law that we are renegotiating or voting today has already become an unfair topic of political debate at a high level, such as the Slovenian Parliament. Indeed, the Council of State has the right to veto, but I believe that the saints have overlooked from understandable but unfounded concerns that we have adopted this law primarily because of the referral of the Constitutional Court. The content of the law following this decision of the Constitutional Court shall be followed. The decision of the Constitutional Court is being reinstated today and, as we have said for the first time, in the view of the Young Slovenia Party, there is no other way than to take into account the instructions of the Constitutional Court. Indeed, the conduct of those who did not care about their status is questionable. Their treatment justifiably angers a good part of citizens. The fact is that we are talking about a period which, for young Slovenia, the state of Slovenia was not so easy. But much more problematic and misleading is the fact that it is precisely all the political parties that now, in the same or similar composition as you were sitting in Parliament at the time, your responsibilities and the mistakes you made at that time, that you are recalculating and inadmissibly hiding behind political statements about how unacceptable the Constitutional Court's decision is. You too are acting like the greatest righteous, and without shame, you are taking the heavy responsibility you have for the fact that so many people have been affected by your decisions for more than 10 years. You cannot be nearly as proud as, for example, the former president of the country, who publicly admitted that he was responsible for not doing any more and better at that time. If we want a country in which human rights are respected, we must respect them always and not only when it suits us. Where you were then the opposition parties, who now, when you are in the government, say that you objected to such a state, why you did not take advantage of the opportunities you had as parliamentary parties and prevent the situation in which so many people have been affected by the mistakes of Slovenian politics. As we know you did not request the Minister's interpretation, you did not propose a referendum and similar things. This is the truth that Slovenian citizens, who now understandably oppose the correction of the mistakes you have made, because they are not responsible and will pay for them. Of course, it's easier for you to admit your mistakes, and so you're also physically and politically responsible, from this story to forged political points. In doing so, you are both governmental and opposition parties as well as to agree on this, in particular with one goal to divert the attention of Slovenian citizens from the essence of the problem, and this is that today it would not be necessary to speculate on a few million damages that threaten the State, but all those who were already entitled to Slovenian citizenship years ago, but who were not then assured by them, all these people would live and create as proud Slovenian citizens, not that these mistakes were caused by indescribable injustices, which everyone felt for the basic human rights of the deprived people of the Republic of Slovenia who did not recognise their status. While it is understandable that the current Slovenian legislators may rely too much on the cooperation and cooperation of part of the population, some of them unfortunately decided to be calculating, not to be civic. In any case, calculus also defends the law as a legitimate option and thus establishes the Constitutional Court. Being a calculating and non-Slovenian citizen is a human right and therefore we must respect it, the Constitutional Court tells us, whether we personally like it or not, if it seems so controversial. This is an essential reason why we support the law in the Youth Party. Somewhere there is a basic limit to what human rights cannot and must not be disputed, there is no room within this limit for different political options, different opinions and others. The matter now governed by this law has been placed within this boundary by the Constitutional Court and it is our duty to take this into account. The Law on the Enforcement of the 8th Point of the Constitutional Court Decision, adopted on 29 October, merely ensures permanent residence for those foreigners who have already obtained a residence permit in Slovenia since 25 February 1992 and have demonstrated their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia in administrative proceedings. In the Young Slovenia Party, we also believe that this technical law does not provide an additional legal basis for the possible enforcement of claims for damages caused, which is clearly the main concern of those who oppose the adoption of the law. Laws in this area do not provide a basis for obtaining material rights back, i.e. retroactively. Finally, let me repeat once again the position of the Young Slovenia Party on the proposal for a law: In a democratic country, it is unacceptable to ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court, as this can distort the very foundations of state regulation. Policy under the Slovenian Constitution is not justified in ignoring the decision of the Constitutional Court. We will therefore vote in favour of this law with this conviction, as everything else would be questionable, in particular with the applicable rules of conduct in democratic and legal society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Janša will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister! In our opinion, the veto of the State Council is entitled to the passed law of the National Assembly. In the discussion before the law was decided, our Group tabled an amendment allowing individual cases to be individually examined or case-by-case considered and allowing for the identification or separation of possible cases and in our opinion mostly unjustified cases. The government did not provide satisfactory explanations as to why two laws were needed. Even today, we have not heard any response from the government to one of the key aspects of the Council of State when it voted veto. They do not claim by the government that all those who are supposed to be concerned by this law live continuously in Slovenia and that they have had to prove this in the process so far and that there is no dispute in this regard. Nor do they claim that, in this case or on this issue, there is a division on the basis of some national criteria, the division into Slovenia and Slovenia and so on. It is simply a matter of attitude towards the rule of law. It is the doing of injustice to those, regardless of their national nationality, who recognized Slovenia as their country and their homeland in 1991, who accepted its citizenship, which was very generously offered, and among those who, at that time and who still regard Slovenia as an uncivilised country, say that this is why they did not want it and do not want its citizenship. When we collected signatures for the submission of any initiative to announce or collect signatures for the implementation of the referendum, we can see from the names, those who signed this initiative, that it is also a number of citizens who are certainly not Slovenian nationals and who have signed this initiative, who consider that such division is particularly criminal to those who may have been in a difficult personal situation, because of mixed laws, because of their work and because of the various pressures they have experienced in their environment, they have nevertheless decided on Slovenia, the loyalty of the country in which they lived, which they have since. Now they see or rightly fear that the Slovenian authorities will pay those who were ridiculed at the time because they accepted Slovenian citizenship and will pay them some back rights. Rights they didn't want at the time. At the beginning of this presentation, I should also say that we reject part of the debate that took place on this issue at the first reading of this law and where some individuals of the Slovenian National Party used inappropriate terms in relation to the category that we are dealing with, such as scum and so on. We believe that this level of debate helps those who want to harm Slovenian taxpayers in every way by means of this unfair regulation. It's a very serious question. For a question that concerns equality before the law more than anything else. The question of whether we are all exactly the same before the law in this country and, therefore, the seriousness of this issue also requires serious debate. Now something about why in our opinion the government has not proposed a solution to this issue in a single law, which would be normal. The two laws are before us, because of an attempt to cover the most controversial category of so-called technical law, the most controversial category of so-called deleted, as the unjust term, which is mostly composed of members of the former aggressor Yugoslav army. These are Yugoslav customs officers and other former federal officials who, in 1991, rejected Slovenian citizenship with disgust because Slovenia, as the president of the so-called deleted society today clearly and loudly claimed, was considered an uncivilised state. Many of these have also been actively involved in aggression against Slovenia. According to the law, of course, the claim that this category has already regulated its status, that they have a permanent residence already recognised, many of them even have citizenship. In this category, most people with strong ties, with connections leading to people in power today, from the Constitutional Court to individual administrative units. It is also a matter of personal acquaintances and friends of some constitutional judges who should be excluded from the decision-making process as a result of this fact. It's about people who still don't hide that Slovenia didn't like it at the time, and even today, the president of the Todorović Society doesn't hide his hostility towards Slovenia, and the vice-president of the society of deleted, so-called deleted, is the former commander of the Yugoslav Army's caravan at Holmac Perak Marko. In Holmac, the aggressor Yugoslav army caused much distress. This Vice-President of the Society deleted, Mr Perak, of course, organised Slovenian citizenship years ago, and now I would like to see the status back and, of course, the compensation for the return, which I have made clear to myself in front of the camera of national television. Wrong world. We ask Mr Bohinc and the Slovenian authorities, who want to retroactively highlight some unjustifiable things for the return, will the service in the enemy army that has committed aggression against Slovenia also be retroactively persecuted? Will the limitation period for this crime begin only on the date of the issue of retroactive decisions on permanent residence? Will the government press charges, say against the vice-president of society, who deleted Mr. Perak because he commanded a unit that, in an attack on the Holmec border crossing, caused a lot of grief, murder, injury, destruction of the border crossing that we all paid for? Let's not forget, JLA's aggression against Slovenia was not an illegal and illegal act only from the point of view of the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia, it was also an illegal and illegal act from the point of view of the then constitutional regime of the SFRJ. JLA did not have an order from the then state presidency, which was the Commander-in-Chief, but only had conclusions, the unconstitutional conclusions of Markovic's government, which unfortunately also included some ministers of the current Slovenian government. It was an illegal procedure, anyway. This category, which we are talking about today, also includes the former colonel of the Yugoslav Army Vasilija Milenkovic, who was the commander of the JLA reserve division based in New Town during the war for Slovenia and the aggression of the Yugoslav army. Colonel Milenkovic personally prevented the surrender of the armored column of the Yugoslav army, which was stopped at Medvedjek and in the Krakow Forest, as the commander of this column Major Predanović was prepared to hand over the unit in order to prevent damage. In the negotiations before many witnesses, Colonel Milenkovic banned the commander of this column from surrendering to the Slovenian forces. Consequence: several dead soldiers of the Yugoslav army, severely injured members of the territorial defence, bombed convoys of civilian vehicles, 10 dead and wounded civilians, residents of surrounding houses and drivers of civilian vehicles. Today Mr Vasilija Milenkovic lives peacefully in New Town. He must have arranged for some status with his associates in those days, and now he probably expects us to pay him back for all his human acts. This category includes a number of people with names and surnames that people know in all major Slovenian places because they saw when they left and when they came back. It is a group of former Yugoslavs, some waiters and others who refused Slovenian citizenship, which just before the war in 1991 met at a hotel in Lipica and already distributed functions in the company and the surrounding area, after JLA has done its job. And now, of course, for their own, I will say a very patriotic act in Slovenia's status for back and compensation. The very use of the term has been erased, as we have said at the outset, is a deceptive expression that is offensive to Slovenia. It is evident that no one was deleted, but that those who did not regulate one or another status under the legislation in force at that time were transferred to a category for which the administrative authorities tried, most of the administrative authorities, were probably also faults where, but most of the administrative authorities that had only dealt with those who had simply left and had not regulated their status, tried to sort things out as if there had been a mistake because there was no formal, official guidance to be uniform. Most authorities, especially in those places where all of a sudden empty apartments were the most, tried to arrange this in a perfectly legal and procedural manner. Of course, how should the people who handled these things know that someone is missing? All they knew was that he didn't make things right, and that's not just automatic. The most so - called disappeared or missing persons were discovered or noticed at the beginning of the school year 1992 when the children did not come to school because they were not here. Many schools reported this further, and many administrative authorities then tried to reconcile these records. I have here a number of cases of letters sent by the administrative authorities to those so-called deleted and to which there were no responses. Of these, 7 thousand notifications were sent to Ljubljana by the City Secretariat for Home Affairs. I can read to you, quote, if you like, there are different dates, and from spring 92 to April 93, when, until May 93, when these authorities sent an invitation, I will read a few cases: Republic of Slovenia, City of Ljubljana, City Secretariat of the Interior of Ljubljana, Mackova 1. I will read the names, address Ljubljana, Gotska ulica 1. We invite you to report at 10 a.m. on 21.4.193 to the local secretariat, the Population Registry Department, for the purpose of registering the actual address of the permanent residence for Mustapić Natasha, born 9.7.1965, and for the registration of the National Book for the appointed. If you cannot respond for excuses, please make this known in time. Or the following letter, sent in 92, after the beginning of the school year: We invite you to report to the Secretariat here on 23.9.1992 for the purpose of registering the address of the permanent residence and service of the decision on admission to citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision was waiting for someone who didn't pick it up. Since you have not responded to the invitations of 7.7.1992, 21.7.1992 and 20.8.1992 and cannot be completed without your cooperation, you are reminded again that, unless you respond to this invitation, in accordance with Article 38 of the Citizenship Act and so on, you have been considered to have withdrawn your application for citizenship and will be suspended. Once, twice, three times, this person has been invited four times. Then: We invite you to report to the secretariat here 29.7. at 11:00 to register the address of the actual permanent residence and so on and so on. An invitation, an administrative unit, or then the congregation of Idrija: We invite you to report to the Idrija Congregation as soon as possible in order to arrange a permanent stay. So, why are we talking about eraseds? Why do we have a power to harm ourselves in this country? Why might some cases where the procedure was incorrect now rise to some general level and make it a category that has been deleted? Is this some sort of nostalgia after some lost illusions at the time of self-conquerment that some have failed? Is it just a reflex to do whatever it takes for taxpayers to pay for it anyway? I don't know. We certainly still have time to correct this mistake. This group, which we are talking about today and which is trying to hide in the so-called technical law, is characterised by the strong support of the former Yugoslav Army senior officers, who have settled their status, many times with the broad support of the Slovenian authorities, and now act as if they were still concentration camps in Slovenia in 2003 as in 1945. I'll just give you a few examples. One of the most active, profaning Slovenia abroad, publishes strong backlogs on foreign agencies’ websites, is former Yugoslav Army colonel Gorjanc. This senior Yugoslav Army officer, the head of the Serbian Corps, was repeatedly asked to join the Slovenian side; I personally sent people to him when we convinced him to move to the Slovenian side. He came to Slovenia only in October 1991, after it was all over. Until then, he waited for the rank of General of Belgrade; that was his answer, not because he was waiting for the rank of General of the Aggressor Army. In October 1991 he came from Serbia, here he got a job in the Slovenian Army, although he was not loyal, very high position, he got an apartment and a lot more. In 2002, however, in his article "Slovenia and Human Rights, Ethnic Cleaning in Slovenian" published a contribution, mainly published abroad), which states that Slovenia has ethnically cleansed 80 to 100,000 people, and says that many are asking whether Slovenian politicians will answer to the Hague tribunal for ethnic cleansing. Then, in northern Slovenia, we have Mr Jožet Rotar, including Slovenia, during the war of the commander of the caravan in Zgornji Kunište, who was also invited to move to the Slovenian side, guaranteed him all rights. He refused, the caravan was taken, he was trapped. But today he has a fully regulated status, he receives a Slovenian pension, and he is even the secretary of the Regional Committee of the Association of Fighters of Gornje Radgone - the former aggressor secretary of the veteran organization, so-called. Of course, he advocates that his colleagues who participated in the aggression against Slovenia should be compensated for the damage they suffered because they were not recognized as having no honorable act. Well, dear colleagues, we've come a long way. The commander of the caravan, who attacked the Holmec border crossing, where people died, was granted Slovenian citizenship at the time of the race against veterans who defended this border crossing in Slovenia. And today he's demanding compensation. However, the colonel, who did not want to move to the Slovenian side, received citizenship, employment, pension, high status, today those who fought for this country were sent to The Hague. For their former colleagues, who were also disloyal, in Slovenia they require compensation. Well, we've really come a long way. What we demand from the present authority is equality before the law. That at least we will be treated equally by those who have defended this country, who have been identified as Slovenian citizenship, who have respected legislation, as have those who have not done so. And don't ask us to pay them any more. We demand that the current authorities treat the decisions of the Constitutional Court equally. I expect from the Constitutional Court, and above all from the Slovenian Government, to explain why this decision is being resolved as a matter of urgency and why it is also in a hurry with this category, which has already been regulated in one way or another. Where are the other sixteen decisions of the Constitutional Court, which should already be implemented, for which the spouses have already passed, nothing happens. What is the matter with the decision of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper, adopted years ago. The Municipality of Koper is still unconstitutional. The people at the referendum rejected the Constitutional Court's decision and here you said it was democratic. In the case of deleted, so-called deleted, you say that the referendum would not be democratic to be unconstitutional. Everything we demand is the same criteria, and we will demand it to the end. We also demand and expect justifiably that this issue is regulated in one law. We expect that today's veto of the State Council will be confirmed to open up the possibility of a productive solution to this problem, to buy time, to answer some questions that the government is not able to answer today, and only the parrot is saying that the law is not the basis for compensation and no one believes it. They have also been erased themselves, for they deny you every day with their demands. And of course, we expect the Slovenian Government to implement constitutional decisions in the order in which they were adopted. To first get to the table a law that was annulled by the Constitutional Court first, then a law that was annulled the next time and so on and so forth, or amendments to those laws. However, not to forget the other 16 laws, but also to address significantly more justified categories, the issue of income for the most affected layers and so on, but with that there is no rush. So the order is clear. He was appointed by the Constitutional Court. Today, I think the National Assembly has received much help, valuable assistance from the State Council, an opportunity for a retrial. And if it is not used, one question that has been brought to the Slovenian political scene mainly because of the interest that new voters are created in one way or another for a specific political option, will become more complicated and will ultimately harm everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Miran Potrč. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although we have already discussed the reasons for the adoption of that law thoroughly, the lack of understanding of its contents suggests that some facts should be repeated. The adoption of that law is a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. This found that, contrary to the Constitution, the Aliens Act was passed on 25.6.1991, as it required that citizens of other republics of the former SFRY who had not applied for citizenship under Article 40 of the Citizenship Act should start to reorder their foreign status as if they had first come to the Slovenian border, although without Slovenian citizenship they had lived in Slovenia at least since 23 December 1990, and many of them had been born in Slovenia for many years before or even were born in Slovenia. It concluded that the understanding of that law was incorrect when it was implemented by removing 18,300 residents from the residence register without the issuing of a decision or by informing them of it before it was deleted. I should therefore point out once again that this is a constitutional court decision, that it is the oldest law which has been attacked by a Constitutional Court decision and that it is the first decision that has already established the unconstitutionality of this law in the spring of 1999 and that this unconstitutionality has not yet been lifted. The problem of the situation of the people of Slovenia who would not apply for Slovenian citizenship was known at the time of the adoption of the law on foreigners. It was expected that foreigners would remain in Slovenia, but with regulated status and rights that belonged to foreigners until then. No one predicted, and no one well-intentionedly could expect that, on the basis of understanding of the law on foreigners, 18,305 inhabitants of the new country would be removed from the residence register, as a result of the termination of all the rights enjoyed until then, that they would cease to be subject to all the personal documents on the basis of which they had demonstrated their residence in Slovenia until then, that they no longer had permanent residence in Slovenia and therefore could no longer enjoy the rights they were bound by. Since the Constitutional Court has established that such conduct is illegal and that such requests are illegal, it has also required a special status-setting procedure for these inhabitants. The National Assembly did so by law in 1999, but found their residence if they submitted their application within three months and only for the time being. However, following the re-decision of the Constitutional Court, this required that the right of residence be determined from the date on which they were deprived of their permanent residence. These are, in short, some of the facts which are indisputable from the content of the Constitutional Court decision. However, some other claims persist in public:- that they have been erased because they did not want to have Slovenian citizenship. In doing so, the State should not further punish them by deleting them from the register of permanent residence because they have not acquired Slovenian citizenship. This is the conclusion of the Constitutional Court. It is claimed that regulating their status was required by the law on foreigners. In doing so, it remains silent that this law on foreigners has been declared by the Constitutional Court in this part to be unconstitutional, indeed after seven years, but declared unconstitutional. It is consistently argued that the Aliens Act has been properly and correctly implemented, which should also show that, under this law, almost 5,000 of the most persistent have been able to obtain a re-entry into the permanent or temporary residence records, and that these procedures have lasted from at least a few months to a maximum of five years and that in those five years, these people have still been without permanent residence and have experienced many inconveniences because they did not have this document. Finally, it is claimed that the State has already fulfilled its obligations and has corrected the wrongs committed when again, even over the years, it has entered a permanent residence. In doing so, it must again remain silent that, for the first time, this has not been done for all, but especially for those where it is not done in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court requiring the determination of permanent residence from the date of the unlawful deletion. Some point out that this is a right to return. But it can also be said otherwise, since she was taken away. Above all, the latter is never highlighted. In fact, all those who have been erased and who have decided to leave Slovenia in time after their disappearance have no opportunity to return and demand justice today. They don't have that option. Only those who have lived continuously in Slovenia since 25 June 1991 and since 23 December 1990 have this right. Therefore, to claim that someone will acquire a right that has not been in Slovenia for several years is simply not true. These are made-up things. As a result, all misunderstandings and misunderstandings are generally caused by misinterpretations of facts from 1991 and 1991. These facts, let’s be honest, were first and foremost directed by those who took the lead to decide that the Aliens Act was implemented in 1991 as it was implemented. On the basis of the unwillingness to understand the problem of the deleted and to agree that the untruths about this issue are persistently repeated in the public as facts, a false picture has been created in many uneducated people, as if the government, with its proposals, which only follow the explicit decisions of the Constitutional Court, wants to create a group of people a new privilege or even provide them with material rights. This is not good, for at least three reasons. Firstly, because the public is on the issue that I believe does not deserve because it is legally and politically pure, it is highly polarised. I am convinced that the vast majority of citizens and citizens of Slovenia insist that Slovenia is a legal state, that it must respect human rights, as well as those of other nationalities. Secondly, it is bad because responsible political and state institutions in Slovenia, including some parliamentary parties and, unfortunately with their views, the State Council, at least reluctantly, I hope that the decision of the Constitutional Court will not be taken lightly, proposed and demanded that the decision of the Constitutional Court be not implemented. In doing so, they act directly against Slovenia as a country where respect for human rights and the rule of law are values that are above all other material and political interests. And thirdly, I think that this is bad in view of the very clear and indisputable views of all the intergovernmental forums that have said so far. And it can very well happen to us that the behaviour of a Slovenian country that would not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision would be assessed as a violation of human rights even before international forums, which we probably do not want. Members and Members are also obliged to reflect on these dimensions of the issues that have been deleted, and I think we will act politically responsibly if we reaffirm the bill today. In doing so, I should not state the arguments already stated by the government in its position against the veto of the State Council, but I should say the following. The law adopted regulates rights only to persons for whom it has been irrefutablely found to have been in Slovenia in fact and continuously since 23.12. If anything else is found, the competent administrative authority must re-establish such a procedure and cannot issue such a decision. That's clear, I think. Secondly, the law adopted does not give any new substantive rights and no new rights to compensation. Each individual, if he so wishes, will have to exercise such a right before a court of law. As far as compensation is concerned, it is appropriate to say that the National Assembly always has the right and duty if any compensation makes it difficult or impossible to exercise other functions of the State to limit the amount of compensation. There is no doubt that the National Assembly will do so if compensation claims are made to indicate such a situation. Finally, there is no duplication in the law that we will decide on today and in the law that is still under way. We have only decided on this law, even though the Constitutional Court considers it possible to issue a decision without law. Whether we have made the right decision or not, this debate probably shows what would have happened if the competent ministry or government were in charge of implementing the constitutional decision without drafting the relevant law. Finally, the law that is supposed to create the legal basis for regulating possible rights for those who have no status today, i.e. the so-called system law, we are just starting a debate. We have agreed unanimously on a public presentation of opinions; this can, and I believe, will open up many factual and legal questions and we will have the opportunity to examine them thoroughly before deciding on the law and to request a study from the competent institutions. Then we can check what criteria we want to set for the exercise of rights. We will then be able to assess what conditions are needed to justify claims for possible damages, and then we will be able to assess whether or not we need a specific law to deal with this issue. And I believe we'll do it. So today, by re-voting the law, we are only enforcing the 8th point of the Constitutional Court's decision and creating a basis for this decision to be implemented without any prejudice to new rights and thereby respect human rights in Slovenia. I believe that we are ready and able to do this and that the dilemmas that are open to all of us under the so-called Systemic Law will be resolved and thoroughly examined later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Irma Pavlinič Krebs. He has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will re-support the law. For the Council of State tells us the following: below 1 you do not respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. And under the 2nd Act is the basis for lodging claims for damages, so we reject it because it does not foresee financial consequences. The law will be a difficult provision for the Slovenian budget. First, I will respond to the allegations of the financial consequences of the law. The law that we will adopt today is not the basis for lodging claims for damages. In the event of human rights violations, compensation shall be granted to an individual on the basis of Article 26 of the Constitution, which states that everyone has the right to compensation for the damage caused by unlawful conduct by the State. The existence of the right of compensation must be determined on a regular basis by the court in each case, in each individual case, by the courts to determine whether the damage caused by the unlawful deletion has occurred. That it was unlawful, the Constitutional Court found it. Complaints can be filed by affected individuals today, irrespective of the law before us and, as we know, some have, of course, already filed. The assessment of the financial consequences does not fall under this law because it has no financial implications. However, the issue of compensation is an important issue. We are still aware of him in the Group of Members. We are also aware of the simple fact that we cannot regulate this issue constitutionally and legally in a sustainable manner in this law. The legislator may arrange for the recovery of damage to systematic violations of human rights in a specific law, provided that this is justified by the authority of the public interest. The financial burden of possible compensation for the country must not be so great that it would be detrimental to its other functions. Therefore, the benefits of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia must not be jeopardised. When and if we face numbers that we cannot predict today, because people we do not know about are closely connected, whether they will file claims for compensation and how high they will be, we will restrict public benefits in accordance with the principle of proportionality with the specific compensation law. This country has every opportunity to limit compensation under the conditions I have stated. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be the first to propose this if this proves necessary. The creation of panic, about the unknown compensations that this country will pay, is absolutely unnecessary at this moment. This is a cheap political populism, with which some political parties want to gain public support. In doing so, they do not care about the real interests of this country, as they do so even though Slovenia risks dealing with this case before the European institutions. How they decide you, I don't think there's much of a dilemma. European Commissioner for Human Rights Gilles Robbles has already called on Slovenia to resolve this issue as soon as possible in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. Valuable political populism puts Slovenia at great risk, losing credibility because it is not able to resolve issues, in accordance with its domestic law, for reasons why it should not respect the Constitutional Court decision cited by the proposed veto and the proposer of the situation, so that we do not undermine the law again. The Constitutional Court said the following when it ruled in a constitutional decision. The 1991 Aliens Act violated the Constitution by its provisions, with extremely difficult conditions imposed by it against the permanent citizens of the former Yugoslavia, because it first abandoned the legal regime governing the situation of these persons and thus indisputably violated the constitutionally protected principles of equality and the protection of the confidence of these people in law; thus, when the legislator, in determining the conditions, did not take into account the important personal circumstances of the permanent residence of these people in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia prior to the independence of the legislator. The Constitutional Court reminds us and says that at the time when the legislature adopted the law, I have to consider permanent residence and actual residence in the territory of Slovenia as the essential circumstances that should lead to the transition to foreign status in a special way, in transitional provisions, and not to make their legal situation worse. At that time, two hundred thousand people, the citizens of the former Yugoslavia, were placed in unequal legal position because of the various requirements imposed by independent legislation. Those who entered the civil status had to meet only two conditions: that they had a registered permanent residence, actually reside in the territory of the State and not commit a self-serving war against the interests of Slovenia. 172 thousand have decided to make the most of their relationship with our country. In this case, the State did the right thing legally. However, the State should not have set up 18 thousands who had the same status before entering the new country, i.e. permanent residence, to enter the status of permanent aliens in such difficult conditions that those who wished to gain this status failed to fulfil immediately 26. 5. 1992. Of course, those who went to the congregations and asked for status told them in accordance with the law: "You must prove the legitimate reasons for staying in our country, you must prove that you are employed here or are in school, etc., you must prove that you have sufficient resources to survive, you must prove that you are unpunished and in a foreign country you must obtain a document showing your identity." Such difficult conditions should not have been imposed on them by the State at that time. This was the fundamental reason that a legal void had been created for many who also wanted to settle this status. Let's see, it's a typical case. Someone did not want citizenship because he had a problem thinking about whether he would be able to inherit property from his elderly parent in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. He decided to live in the country as a permanent alien. He came to the congregation and settled for a few months, that is to say, he obtained this evidence, which was then sent by the municipality to Ljubljana to the Ministry of the Interior, which had decided on these statuses. Despite his timely response to all these calls, which were also received by the municipal authorities, he obtained permanent residence permits in 1993. What's been going on with him since he was 25. 6. 1992 to 1993, when did he settle his legal status? There was an unconstitutional legal void in his stay. For this time, there is no document in our country. The Constitutional Court says that to these people who have actually and continuously resided with us and today have permanent residence decisions as foreigners, this unconstitutional legal void must be covered by the issuance of the conclusions. The rule of law could not afford this because in the transitional provisions it did not regulate the special situation of these persons in which these people were in fact in our presence, just as those who entered civil status. That's all we do, and that's what we're obliged to do as a state of law. Of course, the situation in which these people were, why they opted for permanent alien status, not citizenship, is a legitimate issue. Many did not even know that he was a citizen of some of the republics of the former Yugoslavia. A lot of them were born here. Some wondered, and they also referred to the state authorities when they asked me if I could inherit property in the country I was going to be a citizen of. We couldn't answer that question at that point. And to punish these people for not deciding on the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia, not only that it is legally inadmissible, is, in fact, contrary to all international conventions which clearly state that when a state becomes a new civil body, it is necessary to take a particular look at people of other nationalities who are in the territory and must not be made worse by their legal situation. And that's all we do with this law, so we enforce the Constitutional Court's decision. I don't think there's anyone in this room who could say that we won't respect the Constitutional Court's decision. This is clear in point 8, it clearly states that all those who have permanent residence permits and have a legal void in between are obliged to cover this legal void, covered by a legal act, because it is indisputable in the proceedings that these people have been found to be uninterrupted, in fact, living and living today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word of his colleague, Sasha Peca. It will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. My colleague Malohr will conclude the position of the SLS Group. My friend Peca first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! A few moments ago, we heard that the state has to ensure that the status or position of the people in our society does not deteriorate. It sounds very nice and in the same sentence we have also heard or in the same performance we have also heard that those who oppose the solution of the Government of Slovenia on the issue of deleted are causing valuable populism. Let me tell you that it's only Friday, and I'm just going to give a case on purpose that's not related to the Maribor City Hall, that you won't even label it as valuable populism, lost the work of the new 120 working people in Trbovje. Since independence, a total of 1,900 only from the title SPTIIM. When will this National Assembly start dealing with the issue of people who are losing jobs, whether because of politics or transition, it would make sense to know. It would be right if this National Assembly were dealing with Slovenians and Slovenians who have not lost their jobs because of themselves, but not that this National Assembly is actively and very often dealing with issues of so-called self-exposure for the last half of the year, and much of Slovenian policy in both the executive and legislative branches of government is linked or actively linked to this issue. I want to say that the duality of this moment or moment this year is great in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling party or ruling parties who leave behind not only on the side but also on the part of the unemployed from their vocabulary. Unfortunately, too many times, and according to our assessment, there are unjustified requirements for so-called rights originating from nowhere for any other social segment that comes from elsewhere. Allow me to begin by stressing the recommendations that come from the European Union, given that many have used as an institution, why to support the law, that is, what various French representatives in various institutions have advised Slovenia - for the first time, let Slovenia be soft about this issue, to please the Constitutional Court's decision, and for the second time, let the Republic of Slovenia be generous about the question of self-named deleted. You know, most of these calls come from France. This is about as if the National Assembly would call on or any of France's fellow Members to resolve the issue of Algeria. But of course he doesn't. Even if any of the Members or government representatives had called France to resolve their problem, do you think they would be involved in this in their legislative body? No, you wouldn't. We are the only Slovenians that, if we get a recommendation, an e-mail or a personal mail Member, from the European Union instruction, we consider this a national problem number one. And whatever the debate is, whether they are members or representatives of the government, it is obvious or it has proved that the basic motive for solving this imaginary problem is only that Slovenia will not turn out to be humanitarian in front of the institutions of the European Union. It won't turn out to be humane because it defends its own act of conquest. Let me say this here. Slovenia's independence legislation received a big round of applause from the institutions of the European Union around 1995. In 1995, the Legal Committee of the United Nations assessed Slovenia's independent legislation by 1995 as in line with UN standards. And there was also a law on foreigners, which today you are so disdainful of by the Government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and say that the basis for what was created or for what is so-called, self-named, I apologize, deleted. In order not to be sufficient by the UN alone, the Council of the EU also issued its recommendation, which said that the rule of law was in line with European Union standards. So much for the European Union, where everyone has praised the procedures for the independence of Slovenia and the rule of law. However, in order for the story to not be so simple, it is important to stress what some speakers have already stressed before me, and I think it makes a lot of sense. 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court are pending hearing; they are old year, two, three, four, five, six and so on. But this National Assembly did not have the wisdom, the principle and functioning of the Slovenian government, to meet with them. But priors and beyond the context of time, he drew up a Constitutional Court decision on the so-called deleted. And suddenly it became the biggest problem of this country. All other laws, Slovenian legislation, which according to the Constitutional Court would not comply with the Constitution or another act, suddenly or never present a problem. In short, we want to say that the rest of the decisions of the Constitutional Court have not been implemented and this fact is of little concern to the Slovenian government and to this national assembly. Let me refresh your memory that in 2000, this same National Assembly voted three times against a Constitutional Court decision, either under the pretext or the fact of the Constitution that, of course, the Member is not bound by any instructions. From this we can conclude that it is not bound by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Of course, we all use this argument together when the constitutional decision does not suit us. However, when the content of a constitutional decision suits an individual, you say that the decision of the Constitutional Court is sacred and must be followed by everyone. If we don't stick to the Constitutional Court's decision, then we don't live in a state of law. Well, and a good question; are we really living in a state of law? On the other hand, and on the third hand, the decision of the Constitutional Court makes very sense and, in my opinion, the fact that it is the representative himself, the legal representative of the Society of Deleted, who is working so hard to reach or enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court that year, that is, in 2000, he publicly called on the National Assembly to reject the decision of the Constitutional Court not to frustrate it. Today, all of a sudden, we hear a completely different view. Why? Some claim that because of personal individual interests. I believe that. If, at least according to our assessment, that is, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, it is necessary to monitor the events from ah to ah to ah, it is also necessary and meaningful to address the issue of the situation. The fact is that Slovenia had a law under the rule of law. These laws stipulated or said: Slovenian citizenship can be acquired by anyone, only to apply for it and to fulfil one condition, namely that such a person, on the day of plebiscite on 23 December 1990, resides permanently in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, people didn't do it either. They did not simply apply for permanent residence, on the other hand, nor did they apply for temporary residence. And what? Today, after 10 years, because someone else then decided to let our whole country suffer. We must say that it was different for those who had a certain speculation in mind who for the first time did not know how the question of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia would take place, or for those who did not believe in the idea of the independent state. And today all those who have believed in this idea that has come true today, we pay those who have not done so, we pay those who have fought even against the Republic of Slovenia, as one of the speakers in front of me has shown on several occasions today. It is important to say, however, that a number of people from this group of so-called self-exposed people, under the leadership of a president who publicly expresses his opinion, the position and the fact that he did not decide on Slovenian citizenship at the time and will not decide on Slovenian citizenship today because it is an uncivilised society. And Slovenia, as a non-civilised society, should now use this so-called civilized norm and then pay off these financial resources to the individual. In my opinion, we can't do this in any way. No matter what any representative claims in this National Assembly and what the reasons for doing it are. Because the fact is, there's a lot of reasons for the public to hide. Why is it that someone with all four of them or why someone is trying so hard to make a decision by a constitutional court, one of many, this time to legalize? As far as the activities of the Constitutional Court are concerned. At that time, the Constitutional Court, in 1994, which also had Krivica in its ranks, who is today’s legal representative of society, i.e. self-named deleted, has been dealing with this issue since 1994. Since 1994, the Constitutional Court has dealt with this issue. At that time, he was among the Constitutional Judges even today's legal representative of this society, the idea leader of this project, how to rob the Republic of Slovenia. Even more, not only was he sitting among the Constitutional Judges, but he was in charge of this area under the so-called rapporteur. But until the end of his term as Constitutional Judge, he has not resolved this issue. When the mandate expires, he becomes the so-called legal representative of this society and sues or gives initiatives to sue the State. Isn't it a little strange that someone who is in a regular working relationship should deal with this matter, solve it, but don't do it later, six, eight years later, step on one of the sides that were when he was in this kind of active working relationship, and start representing them. And by means of a rapid procedure, put forward a decision by the Constitutional Court on the basis of, I think, Article 52 of the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court is as a matter of priority. But the word was not an advantage in his life when he was in a regular working relationship. In the National Party for such activities, namely the Constitutional Court, which tolerates this kind of irresponsibility, and later the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which also tolerates this kind of responsibility, we cannot agree. According to our assessment, despite the great words of the representatives of other political structures in this National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the aim of this Act is exclusively to prepare the ground for the mass filing of compensation actions. That's the purpose of this marriage. For the law, and we also need to know, deals in its content with a large majority of those who already have all the rights under this title, but only prepares them a field to bring lawsuits. However, we all know how different legal representatives, including that former constitutional judge, receive legal representation for individual actions. The fact is that the act of a society of self-described deleted and their legal representative could, or after our assessment, constitute an act against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. In other words, it could also constitute an action against the independence of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already stated several times that there is no link between the decision of the Constitutional Court and that law. Of course, this dictates that there is no connection are used whenever there is talk of compensation. However, where there is talk about the reason for the formation of the Act, they always point out that the legal basis or application for the formation of this Act is solely the decision of the Constitutional Court. I only appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to decide once whether or not it is the basis for the act and the writing of this Act by a Constitutional Court or not. If the decision of the Constitutional Court is the basis for the formation of this law, then, of course, legal responsibility or compensation is also the basis. According to our assessment, it is misleading for anyone to punish the State Council for recklessly acting in connection with the veto voted and the rectification of the National Assembly. The fact is, there will be financial consequences. The fact that the financial consequences will come from this, namely, systemic and technical law, can be seen from the fact that that society, which is, of course, called deleted or merely named deleted, has even addressed a letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a common compensation or some kind of settlement. According to our intel, that was seven. 4. 2003 The Minister, who is probably the addressee of this letter, if he is not a minister, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has not even once told this National Assembly what the proposal for settlement is by deleted persons. This means, in other words, that even the deleted are aware that these are compensations, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia knows that the result of this law is solely one, these are compensations. The only thing is, the public of the Republic of Slovenia wants to prove that, of course, there will be no compensation, but if they are, by the representatives of some parties, the policy will be so wise and take certain safeguards. However, when we preventively wanted to propose these protective measures in the National Party, the government was not excited about this. We will not, of course, back up the bill in the National Party. We estimate that there are too many shortcomings and little that the law is shameful for all honest citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The last position we will hear in the presentation is the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members. Please, Comrade Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, co-workers, Members of Parliament and Members, welcome! The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, having adopted the provisions of the Constitutional Court, has already put forward a position that, in regulating the status of foreigners, citizens of the former republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we cannot agree on a retroactive regulation because of the non-indemnity caused by the citizens of other republics of the former SFRY, nor can we talk about illegality or unconstitutionality, since the competent administrative units have conducted procedures under the applicable legislation adopted in accordance with the rules and acts of seclusion. We would also like to point out that only around 10% or a little more, around 18,000 people of other republics, i.e. the republic of the former SFRY, did not have their status, although they had all the possibilities, like everyone else, about 90%. However, for reasons unknown to us, they did not do so. We also believe that the agreement on the subsequent granting of status puts all those, all those 172,000 operating under the applicable legislation, in an unfair position. In accordance with the laws in force at the time, they were transferred to a new register of foreigners after the expiry of the period laid down in Article 81 of the Aliens Act, those who did not have a different status in the new country. They need to be given a chance to get their status back on track. Some of the citizens of the former Republic of Slovenia in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia also found themselves in the same position with independence. It happened that some Slovenians had to re-order their status or prove their stay to obtain citizenship. We believe that we cannot talk about the violation of human rights of these axes because, under Article 26 of the Constitution, they have always been able to claim compensation from the State for the possible illegal behaviour of the authorities in a particular administrative procedure. We have also noted respect for the principle of legality under the provisions of the Constitution and the General Administrative Procedure Act, and we have therefore supported two laws, while we have expected clear answers to the consequences of the laws thus adopted. There have been no clear answers to the claims that there are foreigners in an unequal situation who have already managed to settle their own status after the establishment of the country. In the debates on the adoption of the so-called technical law for the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Decision, we have pointed out that it is not possible to resolve the legal status of the individual and the consequences of this in return, but only in advance, so that the regulation of the legal status backwards with the general standard is legally and practically ineffective. We have requested that the conclusions, the supplementary decisions imposed by the Constitutional Court in the implementation of the Ministry, be dealt with individually and issued in accordance with the procedure and in accordance with the legislation in force. Existing legislation governing administrative procedures and sectoral legislation in the field of social, health and similar rights allows for regulation only from the adoption of the law, i.e. forwards. The opinions of legal experts on the implementation of the Constitutional Decision differ. A number of legal experts supported our position. Ten experts in constitutional and legal law have signed an opinion that a law must be adopted in order to enforce the 8th point of that constitutional decision. The legislator has been left to how, but not contrary to a constitutional decision already issued.The President of the Constitutional Court also said that the legislator could assess and determine how he would implement the constitutional decision. Both laws should constitute a comprehensive regulation and enforcement of the constitutional decision by assessing the intended consequences of the law. The law should cover, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the different situations in which persons have been in a period of time and lay down the criteria and criteria for regulating their status. We believe that all the situations in the proposals of these two laws are not covered. From the discussions held so far when the first so-called technical law was adopted, it is clear from the replies of the competent ministry and from the conflicting opinions of the legal section on the consequences of such laws that we cannot foresee the consequences of the law implementing paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Decision. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, such laws should not be adopted, so let us take time to determine in the law governing the residence of foreigners clearly and unequivocally who is entitled to permanent residence in our country and what will be the consequences of the law so adopted. In the so-called general law, we have proposed to supplement the criteria that do not allow former civilian and military persons of the Yugoslav People's Army to stay and those accused of endangering the values of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, acquired by independence. We also propose that the law on the residence of foreigners clearly determine the consequences of the decisions issued. We will not support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group because there are not enough reasons for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u21	With the presentation by my colleague Malovrev, we have concluded a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. We will move to a debate between Members and Members. I will give the word to my colleagues and colleagues in the order in which they are written. Since we have already had some debates on this subject, which do not belong to this high house, I should immediately point out that I will closely monitor the debate and that I will not allow anyone to give qualifications that are both inappropriate in terms of political culture or the rules of procedure. I'm asking you to stick to it yourself. Mag. Janez Drobnič will be the first to get his word, followed by his colleague Marko Diaci. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There is something else that has been said to be added. I believe, as well as in the New Slovenia Group, that there is no objection to the implementation of the constitutional decision, but the question is how, in what way. First, the will of the denationalisation must be demonstrated, and secondly, the procedure must be undeniable, in order for all those cases where the will is not shown, where the disputed stay or disputed finding of that person is to be established. Unfortunately, in this law these matters have not been defined, so they do not meet the conditions to be accepted. The law was adopted quickly, recklessly, without the necessary elements, as we have repeatedly stressed, the consequences. However, every law we adopt in the National Assembly must state the budgetary implications. It should be written whether or not they are. There was no such thing in the law. It was adopted in a quick procedure, quickly and recklessly, and did not comply with business regulations, it was taken into force. The law is discriminatory. This will be demonstrated because it favours and privileged persons from the former republics of Yugoslavia or Slovenia in relation to the citizens of the European Union. Among other things, it does not touch persons who were also erased in Slovenian postwar history, i.e. after World War II. Thus, the law does not meet the criteria of integrity, balance and equality before the law. We have many cases from the history of a genuine deletion from Slovenian society, not just from the register. And unfortunately, these people are still erased, both physically and from the register, only to provide them with compensation. The law does not hold up a legal judgement because it imposes enormous obligations on it back, for a time before it enters into force. Without serious consideration, it provides for the payment of military pensions to former officers, protective allowances, aid and service allowances, disability insurance benefits and other social benefits for those people, for those persons who did not want to accept the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, because loyalty to that country meant nothing to them. So they were at a crossroads where they had the right to decide what to do with their status. At that time, the Presidency and the President of the State of Kučan invited people to regulate their status; to decide where they will live, where they will be registered, or to cooperate with Slovenian society. They made a different choice; they speculated or had other reasons not to sign up or settle down as they should. I have therefore mentioned that their will should be demonstrated through law, even now they should allow themselves to apply without being forced by the state to do so, as in denationalisation. The denationalisation was carried out after World War II, but each beneficiary demonstrated his will to want the property back. What's going to happen? Violence against real life? After all, during this period they have arranged for their stay or citizenship to be different, and they have gained some material rights. And now we're going to deny it and rescind it. This is contrary to the interests of a foreigner who has no interest in being determined in return to reside in Slovenia for a certain period, not where he was actually located. This will also have an effect on certain residence contracts, i.e. leases, purchasers of apartments or houses. Retrograde will force some lenders to comply with such obligations. This is violence against them and interference with the rights of another person. The law does not provide for the possibility of checking the permanent residence or whereabouts of those persons. They opted for a different way of life. They had the opportunity to obtain residence as foreigners. Slovenia, as you mentioned, has been alerted to the international dimension of this issue, but international public law does not lay down binding standards relating to the regulation of the situation of foreigners and citizens when countries are divided, so we must resolve these issues ourselves. No one will interfere with our affairs. We can get some mail, some mail, but it's just an opinion of individuals, some kind or other. In fact, the advocates of these persons are lawyers who have worked or are still working in the Constitutional Court. This is sad for Slovenia, this is really sad. Those who have decided to work against the interests of Slovenia against the integrity of the state budget. Neither do they show any loyalty now, as has been shown at the round table or at the confrontations. They stated clearly and loudly: "We are not interested in citizenship of Slovenia. We're not interested in an uncivilised state, a barbaric state." Is that what you're saying? They have the right to such an opinion, but the consequences follow. What are the applications? There's more than one claim. The Minister has determined that they are not, of course, justified. The Minister has no jurisdiction to judge these claims. With this statement, he exceeded his powers and it is only a political gesture. This will be judged by the court. However, the claims are evident. He said 270 million, 60 million, I don't know what else. They object to such a resolution, including those citizens, now Slovenian citizens who have been in similar symmetrical positions as those who have not decided. And you'll be in an unequal position under this law. Those who have shown loyalty. It is therefore our obligation to do so in terms of equality. These are the reasons why such a law is not appropriate and why some initiatives for referendum judgment are justified. It is not for the citizens to decide on the referendum that the national assembly should decide that way. And I miss this speed, momentum and enthusiasm of the ruling coalition in other decisions of the Constitutional Court. Those who concern our children, their equal status, their inclusion in school, their provision of basic means of life. Please be the same, symmetrical to these decisions, to the Constitutional Court in the case of Kopra, be the same. I reiterate, I do not object to any constitutional decision, but it is up to us to deal with it. It's on us! And as you have decided, the path is not the right one.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. My colleague Diaca has given up the debate, so I give my word to my colleague Cheligo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u24	Your Honor, Mr. President! Thank you so much for saying that. Dear guests, esteemed colleagues! Because of the veto of the State Council, we are now again deciding on a law to regulate the status of the so-called deleted. Since the issue has been deleted since the beginning is also a hot political topic that further burdens the actual purpose of legislation, in the DeSUS Group, we have re-examined the proposal for a law implementing the 8th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision and its possible consequences for the State and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The security of the country and its inhabitants are the most concerned about financial salaries. There has been a dominant opinion in the public that the adoption of the law will be the basis for compensation actions against those who would regulate their status. In the DeSUS Group, we reiterate the need to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Imagine a country which, in addition to other powers, would have the right to decide on constitutional complaints of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms completely ignore. On the other hand, it is true that the adoption of the law does not provide an additional basis for compensation actions. The responsibility of the State exists without this law, of course, if an individual can prove the State's liability for compensation. The basis for such indemnity is already regulated in the Constitution, in its Article 26. We see, therefore, that those who think that they have been harmed also today - and if they are able to prove the harmful behaviour of a country that has at the same time led to damage - have a legal basis on which they can determine the State's liability for compensation. Last but not least, this is a Constitutional Court decision which, as such, promotes certain legal consequences. At the same time, it shall determine how it is to be carried out. And this is the subject of the law that we are deciding today. The draft law further regulates permanent residence from 25 February 1992 only to those foreigners who have already obtained a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia after that date and have already demonstrated permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia in the administrative procedure. At the same time, this law concerns the issue of supplementary decisions only for a time elapsed from the submission of an application for permanent residence permit to the positive decision of the Authority. Nor does the proposed law provide a basis for obtaining citizenship, as unfortunately misrepresented in the public. The conditions for obtaining citizenship are set out in the Citizenship Act and require much more than a permit for permanent residence. It is particularly important for the retired generation of injured persons that their situation will not change with the adoption of the law. The right to a pension is not linked to a permanent residence and, as such, cannot be the basis for the claim for compensation, as it is also paid abroad. In view of all the above, I will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u25	Thank you very much. It's John Janša's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. The European Union’s references to the European Union, on the statements of representatives of the European Commission, are very weak, since Brussels, after a law had been adopted in 2001, which regulated the status of citizens of other successor countries of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, reported that the situation had been settled.The Constitutional Court first ruled on this in 1999, the law was adopted in 2001 and the case was closed for the European Union. The new Constitutional Court, with Mr Ribicichi and others, then reached into a law which the European Union said was fine. Tell this to the Slovenian public as well! It is clear that each Commissioner from the European Union or from another country will say that in principle the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. That is what we claim, but we claim that the Constitution must be respected so that we are all equal before the law. So, respectable colleagues and colleagues from government parties, first the way under your feet, bring to the National Assembly 16 laws that are unconstitutional, for a change whose deadline has already expired, and we go in order. Why is there a law before us that, for the first time, does not solve any particular problem because those who are spoken of have their status already regulated? Even if someone is hurt, there is no injustice today. So it doesn't burn water and it's just for someone, I'll say, a political interpretation of the whole thing. But everything else is waiting. You even called for an extraordinary meeting to prevent public debate on this issue. Calling on the European Union and calling for an argument on how to settle this quickly and in this way, as proposed, as requested by the European Union, is purely a misappropriation of the public. At the same time, we will be joined by the European Union by three Baltic countries, all of which have, in particular, one, an open issue of citizenship for the Russian minority, which includes, I think in Latvia, a third of the population. But the European Union considers that this is Latvia's internal problem, which Latvia will deal with in one way or another, and does not, in this case, condition entry into the European Union by addressing this issue. Therefore, do not push the marginal issue to the European level. If this opens up at European level, more will open up. You must be aware that Slovenia will go to the European Union with about 400 unsettled graves, which is more unburied people than in all of Bosnia, that this will also be a European problem, to go to the European Union with many unsolved injuries from our immediate past, with drastic human rights violations that have taken place until 1990, involving many who are still sitting in the Slovenian authorities and in the Slovenian Parliament. All of this will be open at European level. This basket is very big. Mr. Potts could tell you a lot about this. So some general talk about human rights only in cases where it is in the political interest of someone, as has already been said, we, as well as Brussels, are not overly moved. The adoption that these laws, that this specific law, which is before us today, by which the administrative authorities are supposed to issue specific decisions to individuals in return, will not be the basis for compensation actions, is pure property, pure fraud and pure fraud of Slovenian taxpayers. They're already triggering them. They're already in. The fact that the Minister of the Interior says these charges are unfounded, that these claims are unfounded, doesn't convince me. Moreover, it is incorrect for a case that has not yet been decided in an administrative procedure or in a court of law to continue to be said to be unfounded. This is by the Minister of the current government very unfair to any particular problem he has discussed. It is not judged that claims are incorrect and unfounded. It's a matter that needs to be looked at from both sides. In this room, although still in the old hall, legislation was adopted that regulated the Slovenian transition and also some things to go back. When the legislation on denationalisation was adopted, which was tried by the same people, who now speak of human rights, severely inhibit, modify, collect signatures, etc., a position was adopted at the same time, and a legal position was adopted not to pay the compensation back. So, some Slovenian farmer from Mirne got back three hectares of forest that was completely cut off and for 40 years there would be nothing growing up that would be for the market, and for that time, when someone else cut down that forest, it was not for the ambassador, and also for the time when the forest economy, just before the forest was returned, had cut down all the trees, received no compensation, although he was entitled to it, no compensation was received. The law said he was not entitled to this compensation. They took the last apartments they lived in, and they had to move to their relatives in 1949. Then, after severe hardships and after paying high costs for lawyers, they received these apartments back, unrenewed, destroyed, market value ten times lower than when it was nationalised. No, Mr Potts, no one else has claimed their human rights and that this damage, which has been done, will be repaid to them. But in this particular case, when it comes to a category that is just as it is now laid, when apples and pears are mixed, they are controversial, but in the first place human rights, the right to compensation for retroactivity and everything else is behind. This is simply not the right attitude towards Slovenian citizens. The representative of DeSUS said that we should only imagine a country ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We live in this country, respected colleagues from DeSUS. The authorities in this country are at this point ignoring at least seventeen decisions of the Constitutional Court, all of which are older than the latter. We live in a country where we live by concrete measures in a country where Parliament has changed the decision of the Constitutional Court. So don't wonder if we should imagine the country because we live in it. All we ask is that not only what is written in the constitution, and that the letter is the law, but also the concrete conduct based on the Constitution, based on the letter of the law, is the same as all citizens. I therefore appeal once again that the law is refused, that this should give the State Assembly room for manoeuvre, that there should be some productive solution to this problem, that a solution should be brought together in one law, that would significantly reduce the possibility of manipulation and that this problem should be dealt with when it comes to its turn, and that the government and the authority we have first comes with a solution for those decisions of the Constitutional Court, which have long since expired. Only in this case will we believe in the benevolence of those who use human rights syntagma in each other’s sentences. As far as populism is concerned, Mrs. Krebs, like this. A few days ago, the former president of the country at the convention on the future of Slovenia and a few days after that, even at an occasional celebration, where a chamber came out on the 10th anniversary of Slovenian independence, spoke about how any collaboration with the aggressor is a terrible crime, comparable to the post-war massacres in this category, which you are trying to recognize today's rights, which they are not doing, which they themselves have renounced, is a series of aggressors who, according to the former president of the country, have committed a terrible crime. The kind of people who have collaborated with the aggressor, so in this case you also have to have the same vats for everyone. In one historical period, collaboration is not a terrible crime, but in another historical period it is a praiseworthy act that must even be paid in the form of compensation. We'll have exactly the same vats for everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Now it's your turn, colleague mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When we are discussing the law on the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision, I would first like to ask myself the question of what is the real public interest of Slovenia. I believe that, in this context and only on the issue raised by this law, I would like to focus on the real public interest of Slovenia in respect of human rights. And let someone think that he is given the exclusive right to decide who can talk about human rights and who can't. The recent debate on values in Slovenia also raised the thesis on respect for the sanctity of life. There is no sanctity of life without human rights, and I think that citizens and citizens of the state of Slovenia have recognized respect for human rights as the general public interest of the moment when they have decided so many times to join the European Union. All documents can read that the fundamental value of the European Union is respect for human rights. Nor can it be denied that the people we are talking about, but sometimes it seems to me that our talk, which has lost the fact that we are talking about people, cannot be denied that these people have been deprived of their fundamental human right to lose their legal status. This is what the Constitutional Court, in its decision, has drawn attention to, and this is also what the various representatives of the European institutions have pointed out when they have addressed Slovenia either in their report to the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance or to the Commissioner for Human Rights. I have no reason not to follow their recommendation, as I have no reason to doubt the eligibility of the Constitutional Court decision. I also find no argument to challenge those legal experts who see that the issue of a supplementary decision is, in fact, just a way of implementing the 8th point of that point of the constitutional decision under consideration. However, I would like to say something else, which constantly translates me into a debate on the problems that have been deleted. I remember the promise that legal status will not change. We have heard a lot of legal arguments, but it seems that these legal arguments somehow do not convince all those who have different assumptions, different prejudices that express different disqualifications about people who, in our opinion or in the opinion of some, should know and know properly to judge their status. And they can be purely ordinary people, real ignorant. And now we ask them to regulate their status at the time available to them. It is also heard that they failed patriotism enough to be able to achieve enough love for the country of Slovenia. I do not know whether this is a legal category and whether anyone who asks for citizenship or who exercises the right to permanent residence is set this as a specific criterion. I don't know if any of us who have citizenship have been forced to say what his emotional relationship is to the state. And sometimes when I hear what anyone says about this country they live in, I would say that we cannot say that we have any special positive feelings for the state of Slovenia and for those who live with all our differences in Slovenia. I would like to say that I had in my hands a book on deleted persons issued by the Peace Institute. By means of the survey method, researchers asked for the deletions of their fate. I must say that at least the stories of those who can be read in this book do not exactly indicate excessive broadheartedness, subtlety or generosity when it is possible to exercise certain rights before official institutions. It's possible to read, I'll say, scary stories. Therefore, in particular, on behalf of those who were not hostile to Slovenia, who were not crippled by a collaboration that could not prove their guilt, however, it would be necessary to get the strength to do what the law imposes. However, I fear that some are not prepared to do so because some, however, should see that they have wronged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much. A mutual exchange has been announced within the deadline for discussion, so I will now give the floor to Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to wish Mr Janša, for the conviction that I am manipulating, and that in this law we want to rehabilitate a number of aggressors in fact, but to say here, not in our own words, but in the words of the legal profession which dealt with this issue the following. Given that he had the honour of adopting this legislation in 1991 and I do not, Mr Janša, concerning the aggressors of this. As a result of the aggression against Slovenia during the 10-day war, section 40 of the Citizenship Act was also amended to add paragraphs 2 and 3 to it. In accordance with Article 40, it would be expected that the second paragraph would apply in the case of former Yugoslav People's Army officers. This is a crime committed against the Republic of Slovenia. However, due to the legal consequences of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, this provision has proved to be useless. In her comment on article 40 of the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, Nada Končina wrote: At the time of the adoption of the Act on the Supplementation of the Nationality Act in 1991, the legislator was not aware of all the legal consequences of Slovenia's independence. The new second paragraph of Article 40 is practically impracticable as it is based on the offences set out in Chapters 15 and 16 of the SFRJ Penal Code. These are mainly crimes against the nation and the country, but against their nation and against their country. Since Slovenia was already a state of its own at the time of the aggression, all criminal charges were dropped as citizens of other republics or citizens of the SFRJ did not fight their people and their country. So there were no elements to these crimes. All such cases were therefore dealt with in practice under the new Article 40, paragraph 3, of the Citizenship Act and it was necessary to determine whether the admission of an individual constituted a threat to public order, defence and a safe state at a time when the Ministry had decided and not during the war for independence. Such interpretation was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decisions, not in 2003, but in 1993 and 1996. Thus, in 1991, the legal order regulated things as I have said now, so I reject anything that relates to the apparent manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thanks for the debate. Dr. Joseph Bernick has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior! I agree, colleagues and colleagues, that in the rule of law the country must correct the injustices it has committed. If she made them. The question is, What is wrong, who did it to someone, when and why, and whether the alleged injustice is really wrong? On my skin I could feel what it was like to be without citizenship, a homeland, away from the family for decades, besieged by the state as a criminal, a traitor, and in a free, independent country called even a nuisance - a profanity left by the judicial profession to depreciate and went to some archives yesterday. So I know a little bit about the experiences and pressures of people who are trapped in the movements in the history and politics of countries. However, when I listen to this discussion, I must conclude that some of our colleagues have discovered a number of things between us that are not in accordance with normal procedures or statements. Let me mention something. Why has the problem of so - called deleted become a problem right now? Are there humanitarian reasons, or are there upcoming double elections next year, or are they similar? Why did some find that the Constitutional Court’s decisions were respected? Today, it has already been mentioned that 16 constitutional decisions are still waiting for the National Assembly to coordinate them. All declarations of respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the immeasurable humanitarian care for a group of people who had already been close to a number of parties in the old Yugoslavia, and then also later, have never been shown this humanitarianism and petet to Slovenian nationals around the world in the former Yugoslavia or in the free state of Slovenia, not in the law on citizenship or in all other duties towards these people. These two cases point to the immeasurable duality that is constantly repeated in this national assembly. Does that really bother anyone between us? Most parties adopt the proposed law and the promise of drafting a substantive law without delay. Nothing bothers them with the possibility of later large claims for damages. It is interesting, however, that with so many legal professionals in our country, the government chooses the proposed version of the law from many other options to respect the Constitutional Court decision. Why is that? Is the current government manipulative? From current practice, we almost think that yes, because it offers us instead in one package, three packages, first of that, second of that and later perhaps more about compensation. And this is a cat in a frog that our audience should never accept. Personally, however, I find it almost amusing that some colleagues have discovered human rights in recent years. Of course, these apply only to some. Does this fall within those values of gaining the revolution that the government imposes on us all other citizens? For many of you after the war, there are no rights to be killed, at least they had no rights, but now they have finally discovered that there is something to be done, and we have this sad grave law. Finally, it was said that both human rights keepers, domestics and those from Brussels, were behind the demands of the so-called deleted. You know what, the Slovenian Ombudsman, when he was preparing a visit to the guard from Brussels in May, he sort of "snatched" him and directed him only to those matters that were politically secure. And so it was also his attitude toward being erased in his report. I will not vote for such a prepared law. The government and government parties will do us a great service to our country and to all citizens if they withdraw this law and prepare one that will unpolitically, unsuspectingly solve the injustices that may have been committed during the time we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ivan Kebrich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The case has been given a dimension, to some extent unexpected, and today, one way or another, has been stated, the other way is to make clear the arguments that go hand in hand at a given time, irrespective of the fact that in other cases their arguments are diametrically opposed. Today, we have this proposal for a re-examination. We read a lot of things when we made decisions and decided on this law, we said, arguments for and against. If we look at public opinion, and I personally think that the National Assembly cannot and should not follow the pressure of the street, I respect all the civil institutions that make arguments professionally and express their views, which can also be a certain orientation on the professional side. The claims that this law, one part of the lawyers, says that it is not necessary at all, the other part says that it is useful, that it is necessary, and both of them, more or less, defend the the thesis that this law will give certain substantive rights if it eliminates the injustices erased at that time. I will not stress that we are wrong and that if we are right to ourselves and realize a certain mistake, we can correct it in one way or another in a cultural, human, human way. On the other hand, if some lawyers say that it is necessary, others that there is no need, some threaten, and this threat is still quite influential and pressure on us, yes, but if we do not know how to agree ourselves, if we ourselves do not know how to adopt such a law to satisfy everything, it is always very, very difficult for those who sue, and for those who have been sued, to be always satisfied with the judgment of the court. That's why we have court-martials. We even have a Supreme Court. On the other hand, perhaps at that time someone, and now the question is asked, made or accepted, proposed and then adopted a law that has hurt in one way or another. The question is, for what purpose. Either he was only in error or it was an act of pretentiousness in the sense that he now wants to be shown on the one hand that we should resolve him. I know the case from America, from the United States, where Congress is already two decisions - they don't have a constitutional court and they have a Supreme Court - annulled. As a result, this country is in the general sense no less democratic because the congressmen so decided and did not take into account the ruling of their constitutional, rightly said, Supreme Court. It's up to us today to decide. Whether we want those people, whose majority at least thinks that they have been wronged, or whether we want to do so today, then, according to the majority opinion, we want to correct them, or we do not want to. The second is whether we are really going to let them complain, and we know how many complaints there are in the European Court of Justice, how there is, and forgive me, I will use this term, and some things are being resolved very slowly, because they are not so simple. If two, three stages of some courts have not been satisfactorily resolved or adequately resolved, he will continue to complain. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Dr. Brace's colleague now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is not surprising that the National Assembly has such a low reputation in the public. As a house where laws are enacted, they should in all cases act in a manner that respects laws, as well as those relating to decisions of the Constitutional Court. Today there are many references, and in the previous debate also, to the principle of equality before the law. You're talking about the state of law and so on. But when we consider this second point of the Constitutional Court decision and the laws on one basis today, we are actually violating one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law: that is equality before the law. Why don't we say anything about it? Why don't we go into this phenomenon that we all know well, but somehow we can't get enough energy to really deal with it. Here is your responsibility, Mr. President, to the National Assembly, inseparable. You have placed on the agenda the item of the agenda if you are waiting for the course of the hearing in this assembly 16 or how many constitutional decisions have already been taken. I am not going down for your reasons that you did this and that this is the biggest party that has 34 votes in college, force or I don't know, the United List, which just assists in the matter or carries the main weight of this project. I don't care about that at all. But the fact is, political party interest in law. This is evidence of this debate here. This proves that today in the National Assembly we have a decision by a constitutional court that speaks of people who have declared themselves deleted and then the government and all those who repeat this convenient word because it is properly heard. I wonder why we are violating the fundamental principle of why you as President of the National Assembly are violating the fundamental principle of equality before law. Why are some constitutional decisions more important than others? You, as President of the National Assembly and a ruling coalition with two-thirds and more, should, however, ensure respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court in accordance with the order in which they originated. You're talking about scary stories erased. I believe there's been a mistake in a lot of these cases. And it's only right to fix it. But today we have cited specific cases of people who have acted against the interests of Slovenia, against the Slovenian people, against citizens and citizens of this country, and nothing has happened. Are we good souls or what? But the fact is, I find it difficult to accept such political orientation. How can these frightening stories of these people who are considered erased be forgotten about the frightening stories of the Slovenes and Slovenes, the citizens and citizens of this Republic who have suffered in their right to go to the Constitutional Court and get satisfaction there. But you ignore their right to equality before the law. You, Mr President, and the ruling coalition have put this on the agenda and referred, if you please, to the deadline. But, Mr President, are you not being asked to do anything, for example, by the 1997 Constitutional Court decision, where the Constitutional Court found that there was a violation of the Constitution of Article 10 of the Income Act because of the non-recovery from taxation of the amounts that the parent must devote to the survival of his child in terms of the minimum of living. It is the fact that Slovenia, as we well know, has had a negative growth since 1994, so the Slovenian people are slowly leaving this world. So this is one very important thing, for our national substance. You'll say it's irrelevant. You don't care. It's interesting that governments don't care about that either. But now it is Member Pucko who has prepared some text and who will, I don't know, be in line for another hearing. But obviously, not as president of the National Assembly, not a coalition, you're not interested. You have done something, but it has been six years since 29.11.1997 since the deadline for harmonisation. And it is a matter of citizens and citizens of this country who also have the right to be treated equally before the law. But because of this priority you gave to this marriage, this right is violated. In 1997 too, the Constitutional Court found a discrepancy in the law on corporate income tax, the law on specific remuneration tax, and in several places in the Income Act, which leaves a more detailed determination of the costs related to work and the determination of the amount of these costs to which the remuneration is not included as a basis for the tax on personal remuneration or of which these costs are recognised as a tax base. 43. Article 43 of the Income Act, to the extent that it does not allow the costs of a private person to be taken into account by his or her transport to and from work as important items in determining the tax base. You're going to say, "Well, it's just a tax thing, I don't know how important it is." For those who live off their jobs, it's very important. For many people in Slovenia it is still important, regardless of nationality. I'm not talking about Slovenians and non-Slovaks. For all citizens and citizens of this country, it is an important decision by the Constitutional Court, which you do not wish to place on the agenda of this national assembly and cause inequality before the law. This is what happens in the House of Law. The deadline was 22 June 1998. Or a decision establishing non-compliance with Article 2(2) of the Act establishing municipalities and determining their areas, the territory of Koper. We haven't talked about this many times. Date for harmonisation 2.10. 1999. The Constitutional Court has said its own, but now you say, "Coper is something special." We can't just fix this. And that's where the citizens decided. Please. The decision of the Constitutional Court is important to us. Mr. Kebric says first that we must not listen to people on the street, that we must not fall for the pressure of the street. That's what you're saying. The Copper case is the most pressure from the street for you. But after all, you're right. If the Constitutional Court creates a majority, it is necessary to arrange it. And in Slovenia we have about 200 municipalities. And one of them is an unconstitutional, even a large congregation, a city congregation. That is to say, in this house we have adopted legislation under which we have said: the Slovenian local administration can be such and such. We hit the button, we got it. It's okay. Now, in one case, it's not like that, so the Constitutional Court says, "It has to be arranged." We begin to speak, for we have really accepted this and the law applies to all, but the congregation of Koper is not. The deadline for harmonisation was 2.10. 1999 Decision to establish that the fourth indent of Article 11, paragraph 1, of the Income Act is inconsistent with the Constitution. It's just, listen, a stepdaughter as a maintenance family member. So someone who adopts a child has a right to do so. The deadline for the harmonisation of the law was 14.11. 1999. However, there is no special feeling in this national assembly that such things can be arranged. No, we give priority to other matters because these adoptions may not be that interesting. But this is an expensive number of people who can mean something in some electoral process, or what? I don't know, but it seems incomprehensible to me that such, literally little things don't work out. And also this law, I see here from the review, that the proposaler Pucka should somehow prepare and get through the legislative procedure instead of the government. So it's unheard of! In this case, the Government does not seem worthy to draw up a text in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court on the one hand and, on the other hand, to hurry very quickly in the other case. And here again, the government coalition has shown that it doesn't care about people that it thinks it already controls; it's looking for areas where it's not at home. Even in 2000 these stories continue. Once again, the decision to establish partial non-compliance with the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the determination of their areas by law. "In the preliminary procedure for the establishment of municipalities there is no judicial protection... and so on, "the deadline for harmonisation 19. April." Nothing. Local self-government, an important foundation of the social order of Slovenia - nothing. Of course, there are still these decisions. He's got me to read everything, but probably enough of those things I've read. Five, six pages, or this review by our legislative and legal service, totals eight pages. And now the person is seriously asking himself - eight sides of these constitutional decisions, the Constitutional Court has stated its own, the National Assembly which should decide on this and decides on a privileged approach to a single single decision. How you're going to defend this in Europe, I'm interested. How will you tell those of you who are referring to Europe that the 1997 decisions have not been implemented? - That's what we are. Do these other people not have human rights? Are these other people, therefore, of the second class, probably because their right in the Constitutional Court is less worthy of you than the right of those who consider themselves and are called to be erased. But that's obvious. Who is now privileged in this country? Those who had already received satisfaction in court in 1997 and were no doubt given this court on paper, or those who were called to be erased? I'm very disappointed in this policy, very disappointed. At least in those areas where the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia is concerned, I would expect the government to act as it should. I would also expect you, Mr President, as President of the National Assembly, to say that the legislative branches of power are in order to respect the rule of law of this country. But you and all the ruling coalition are cheering at it! Your mouth is full of legal states, and in fact you are causing inequality. Even though there are few of us in the opposition, we will fight this inequality. This is insufferable that the country that enters the European Union, the country that is one of the best prepared, is said to remain in the Balkans at this level of legal and political culture. We may already be full members of the European Union tomorrow, but the condition of the spirit in this house under such leadership and under such a government will be as typical for the Balkans. Disobedience of laws, a privileged approach to individual decisions of the Constitutional Court is to the detriment of the Slovenian people. It works in the opposite direction of our national interests. Unfortunately, we have had quite a few cases in Slovenian history when politicians sold us once to each other. I hope this doesn't happen any further. That's why I'm calling on it myself. Let us reject this law today and try to do what the Constitutional Court has imposed on us, in order, not according to privileges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u37	Just to remind you, Comrade Brejc, as you know, we have adopted a new Rules of Procedure in July 2002. Under the new Rules of Procedure, it has a decisive role to play in setting the draft agenda for colleges and the final decision is decided by the National Assembly. So much for my responsibility. However, as far as the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decisions is concerned, we must be subject to criticism for as long as we do not enforce the latter. There can be no other position in this high choir. My friend Kontic has the floor. No, no, no. A fellow school, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the context of this debate, which should in fact solve only the problem of those groups of people who, if these things were normally regulated, and I hope that in these decisions they will become foreigners with the right of permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, such as the citizens of other republics of the former SFRJ, who had a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. So I'm going to say, all the debates that are moving away from this talk about important things, but they don't talk about this key, which in this house and in the public eye is called the deletion, which was illegal, because people didn't get any paper about their permanent residence status on a certain day. And that's what caused the trouble later. As this context is broader, I have also decided to speak about these things, which it opens up. Most important to me is that no matter how we rank in this matter and in this Chamber, even in this case there is a custom that is not, I will say, honor to the truthful and free people. Even in this case, it's something that, I'll say, more brilliant people have called a kind of conspiracy to silence. The point is that it is not possible to reconstruct accurately and even if you want to show who did it, in what context he did it, and why he did it. We all act like it fell out of the sky, like it happened to us, etc. When I asked myself to find out who was responsible, that in the end they would not be as guilty as it sounds today, some officials in administrative units, perhaps officials in the ministry, to clear up where that knowledge went, whether she went to the minister, whether she went to the government, whether she went to the Presidency or the president, etc., we were afraid of that in the old manner. This is very similar to the situation that colleagues are talking about, that it is impossible to get to the end of what happened after World War II. Very similar. I do not think we can somehow get all this data on post-war killings, so that at least this generation sitting in this House can breathe normally. A very similar situation was the end of the 1980s, when the plural question was asked - What is behind the JBTZ process, what is behind these arrests? We didn't come to the end, officials don't remember, politicians didn't have anything to do with it, judges did and prosecutors just did their job, etc. As if God's caution was at work, a plan that lays down innocent politicians and officials is once again being vowed by silence. It is very similar with all the questions that may not concern so many people when these three subjects concern living people about arms trafficking. After Slovenia, people who know, count money, give it back, guard transports, open borders, and we still can't know if it was done in a legal way, if anything went wrong. Again, a kind of conspiracy of silence, in which we all participate in this, I will tell the crazy idea that we must move forward, that our future is important, that it does not matter so much what happened, how it happened and who was in it, because we have a lot of work to do. In the same context, of course, these also happen that there is no need to solve any problem, but, yes, we have so many others open. Look at one, I'll say, probably the biggest political authority we can overcome in Slovenia, and it can't do that. Mr Kučan said: "These things were, of course, decided by the competent authorities and, as far as you know, the President does not have great powers in all these areas." But of course, that's no excuse. It was a mistake that happened to us, and I don't think it's the worst. If we were to end up at this point, and it makes sense to think about this statement, it's to take a break here. This is not bad for him, but he cautiously says, "It is not the worst," and then he says, "It is worse now that I see in part of Slovenian politics the unwillingness to admit this error and to correct it." But here's the same logic at work. Something happened to us. Mistakes are possible and not big, maybe it's wrong that someone discovered them and so on. This kind of speech speaks of mentality, which, I'll say, strengthens our pressing our heads into the sand and this conspiracy is silent. Other statements, of course, are much more dramatic. I will go to the next question, which I think is important for this discussion, whether marriage is necessary or not. I myself believe that the law for the implementation of the 8th point is not necessary, not for the reasons given here today, but for the reasons stated by the Constitutional Court. The Minister here refers to the fact that he has consulted experts and that this expert council has given him an opinion that decisions cannot be made if there is no law. If we looked at the names in these professional councils, then we would see that, of course, all of them are excellent experts, but that the expert council is headed by a minister of the government who has wronged this deletion so that I do not speak further. I don't think it affected your judgment, but if that's how we handle these things, then that's what we need to keep in mind. I myself think that the bigger problem - what I said - is that the Minister in this case has no courage to break with this tradition of bullying, which is being carried out in our country on this subject. That, therefore, this term 'technical law' has been invented, so that every kind of justification has to be found that the decision would not be issued in this case and that this also means some kind of delay in solving this problem. That's not the first time I've said that. I don't have to document all these things because we talked about this at four, six, twelve and any number of eyes. Look, the Ministry and the Ministry say that constitutional decisions must be respected. If that were the case, then I could respect the decision directly, as Mrs Vedam said. In our view, this so-called technical law on deleted in relation to the Constitutional Court decision is not necessary at all. The questions raised in the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court’s decision are of a more organisational nature, since the Constitutional Court in this decision has determined only the means of enforcement "The Constitutional Court is empowered by law to determine the means of enforcement of its decision, can determine who must enforce the decision and in what way. And when the Constitutional Court determines the method of enforcement, such a decision shall have the effect of law." Let's say we put it on the table, and this is a matter of discussion, on the one hand, the opinion of the Council of Experts and, on the other hand, the decision of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Court in this case. I put myself on the side that I just said I was putting myself on. Here, then, we have a third set of questions that shed light on what the question is today. I want to repeat briefly that this is a permanent residence arrangement for foreigners. In this sense, it's insidious and misleading, if it's about getting new voters, it's inappropriate for me not to say political. These people could already apply for their rights under the Citizenship Act, and they could already have the right to vote all these years if they did so then. Now, to them, and to those who try to enforce this decision in a controversial way, it is, I will say, stupid and shortsighted. These people were not asked for these rights when they had the opportunity. They've opted for a different status, and we're saving them now, I'll say, issues of this status. This does not change in any way the fact that many of them later applied for citizenship. The documents cited here today as part of a presentation by the Group of Members, those which have been read in full, are not documents which could relate to these situations. Please remember that. These are documents that speak of applying for entry into a civil book and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u39	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Way to go, guys. Your veto has warned us that marriage is not just about to be adopted. Secondly, Mr Janša mentioned that of our kind, insults have come from the same, similar positions that we have together. What is the greater insult, as said by Todorovic, the president of so-called, self-named, deleted, when he, Parliament and all Slovenians told us to civilise ourselves? However, we have been here for ten hours and more to discuss constitutional rights that go to someone, we still do not know whether they are justified or not, whether they are greater insults than they are. The Constitution guarantees Slovenian workers the right to work, guarantees. This right was denied to Slovenian workers. Who put to the Constitutional Court the question that workers were deprived of their right to work? When will the government introduce a law that will require Slovenian workers to be deprived of their right to work to be required by the law on the right to work and compensation? One and the other parties have constitutional rights. We're talking about one another, not the other. Mrs. Irma got up protesting and left. She said it was cheap populism. Even if it's populism, because we're talking, it won't be valuable, because when this law is passed, it's going to be very expensive. She said that all citizens have the right to compensation for the damage caused by the State. In particular, this country has caused enormous damage to Zasavje because it has decided to put an end to the difficult industry and mining. I wonder how it's gonna be when 52,000 people complain about a violation of justice. That's not what this government's gonna talk about. I've been listening here all day, from 11 o'clock on, it's between 20 and 30 of us - I apologize for raising my voice, but I'm talking about content and darkness. I don't care what's said here. If we tell and want to tell the truth, we're cheap populisms. If we compare any other truth, the constitutional right of one or the other, we are cheap populisms.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u41	I never interfere with the temperament of the speaker, but I think sounding is good enough so you don't have to raise your voice to hear it. This applies to all of us. My friend Rokavec, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I believe that today is an important day, an important day for the National Assembly, which has been allowed by the State Council, that we can still debate and think and finally decide the fate of this law. First of all, I would point out that the Constitutional Court’s decision in the case of so-called deletions does not state or stipulate that the Government must propose two laws to the National Assembly and that the National Assembly must adopt two laws relating to that decision of the Constitutional Court. It is said that everything is the result of the formulation of a government strategy and decisions by the National Assembly. I believe that, in view of the reasoned concerns expressed by both the State Council and the remaining civil initiative, the law implementing paragraph 8 of the Constitutional Court decision is not appropriate. Why isn't he suitable? Because it doesn't really solve all the questions. The first question is the question of retroactivity. In fact, the Constitution in Article 155 says [[Quote]] : "Laws, other regulations and general acts cannot have an effect on the back." And in the second paragraph: "Only the law may stipulate that individual provisions of its provisions have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired." I believe that it is also an infringement of the acquired rights of those who, on the basis of the law, have secured their status within the time limits which they hold, this State Assembly, has also made possible. Everyone else - if we refer to the Constitutional Court's decision, it is also interpreted, as it is interpreted, they will be able to obtain privileged status in this country, discriminatory status without the possibility of verification. Why don't you have a chance to check it out? We know that no person working on the opposite side has been convicted of acts against the Republic of Slovenia during the war on Slovenia until now. As regards the law on the implementation of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court, there was no other verification. This is the first mistake, a very important mistake. Here, literally, the feelings of Slovenes and Slovenians and citizens and citizens of this country are being hurt. This way, the state cannot solve technically something in this law and another in another law. We now note that some parties do not want these issues to be clearly addressed in another law. That's an essential question. The National Assembly must resolve this issue together. He can't solve it separately. Now leave to the sea the possibility for the vast majority to gain this status back. Is that a public interest? Personally, I believe that the country then clearly offered specific conditions, set deadlines. Of course, she considered the citizens of the former SFRJ countries to be foreigners, as did the others. We know it's been said several times. Indeed, the constitutional law on the implementation of the basic constitutional instrument laid down these criteria clearly in Articles 13 and 16. However, we cannot talk about any harm or injustice that needs to be corrected. The new state has defined the criteria even by constitutional law. The act of independence was known. The state has called on everyone, even more than once, to regulate their status. Seven thousand more invitations were sent after a certain date. Of these, 2 000 were actually served. The others were moved out or the address was unknown. We need to ask ourselves if the others were moved out or if the address was unknown. Why, if they believed in this country, if this country provided them with all the rights and conditions? In fact, only 500 to 700 people responded to this status. These persons will be - when they have settled the status by law, now that we have adopted this law and another, as it is prepared - in a subordinate position. People who believed in this country. Please, let's be smart. Is the country still reasonable? Is this national assembly still reasonable? And second! Today, there has been a lot of talk about credibility or compliance with the Constitutional Court’s decision. All those who said that the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected did not always do so. I suppose it is also possible that a constitutional court may be mistaken at some point. But I'm not gonna talk about this in this place. However, I am convinced that, if the financial deficit in the Treasury is so great, and the financial commitment - the representative of the most powerful parliamentary group - said that if the financial deficit in the Treasury were to be so great, we would agree that this sum of compensation, if there were any damages, would occur - I do not recognise them because I believe that this country has done everything - then we will endeavour to limit them to a certain amount. Why aren't you ready today? Why are you waiting for tomorrow? Another very important issue, or danger, will be raised by the national assembly or legislature if it adopts this law today. The fact that some issues will also be raised makes it even worse for this country in international terms, even from a financial point of view. That's why I think, at the end of the day, it's up to me to decide. Let's listen to the state council one more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. My colleague Maja Zupan. You're giving up the debate. Comrade Pohorec. Comrade Sucker, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. At the time of the adoption of this law, especially after the adoption of the last session, we received quite a few letters with interesting content, data, surnames, names, anniversaries and so on. Let me just say two. The first letter says: "Since 1980, men and women have been at work in Slovenia," I will not mention the names, "from Bosnia and the vicinity of Brče and in Slovenia they were born two children. At the time of independence, the wife wanted to apply for Slovenian citizenship within the time limit published. Her husband, who is now deceased, has prevented and refused to accept Slovenian citizenship for the purpose of returning to Bosnia. But when the war started there, they did not go to Bosnia, so they lost their citizenship and no permanent residence." This is the first case. The second case I would like to mention is this: "Mr. J. S. was the commander of the JLA Division at the time of independence, Lieutenant Colonel. After his nationality, he was a Serb. After some famous events, when he ordered the shooting of a civilian before the war began in Slovenia, and after some famous events around the avian army and Maribor, Mr. Lieutenant Colonel, along with JLA, went from Slovenia to Bosnia and was active in the Serbian army. After four years he returned to Maribor. The wife, the sons, the daughter, and the grandkids kept the officers' apartments and owned them under the Law of Jasbin. On his own return, he arranged a house with an exact address and received a permanent residence. He returned as a Serbian citizen. He acquired a permanent residence in accordance with the then applicable law on foreigners, which states in Article 16: "A permit for permanent residence may be issued to a foreigner who resides continuously for at least three years in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia." I further quote this law: "A foreigner whose residence in Slovenia is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia may be granted a residence permit before the expiry of the three-year period referred to in the preceding paragraph." This Lieutenant Colonel has certainly never been checked for permanent residence in Slovenia since 1992. On the contrary, he left JLA in 1991. That's what Styria knows. On the basis of his permanent residence in another republic, he also obtained foreign, other citizenship, not citizenship of the SFRJ, but Serbian citizenship. Anyone who says that all those who are supposed to be saved in this package have already had a proven permanent stay at this time is lying. I would also like to point out that this marriage has a flat-rate effect on all cases. That's unacceptable. The first case I read, I'm sure we all understand. We understand that this unfortunate case must be solved. It's not her fault her husband stopped her. It is certainly necessary to save human suffering, even though this tribulation was not caused by Slovenia's fault. But she needs to be saved. That is why we have proposed an amendment in the law to check for permanent residence. This law, which is to be adopted today, is once again passed, or - hopefully - rejected, but not verified, but flatly grants the decision by recognizing the permanent stay back. What does that mean for the Lieutenant Colonel? This means ironically that he will lose Serbian citizenship, because Serbian citizenship was acquired on the basis that he had a permanent stay elsewhere, not in Slovenia. If it turns out he had a permanent residence here, he'll lose Serbian citizenship. I don't know! But the most perceptive and unacceptable is that we will enforce these decisions and without verification say, "You have lived here all the time." That's funny, that's -- sorry -- that's crazy. We can't support such madness. I hope that there will be so much wisdom here that we will reject the law on a proposal from the State Council. And that, after a thorough discussion of the system law that is under procedure, we will resolve this matter in a just and selective manner by ensuring that justice is served and that we will not be ridiculed by recklessly imposing decisions that do not have a real basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I'm looking around the hall. Those colleagues who wanted the word, they can get the word. Comrade Jerovšek, would you like a word? Okay, you got it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government. I believe that the National Assembly, on the basis of the veto of the State Council, has a unique opportunity, following a public hearing on the so-called system law, to deal in a uniform manner with the problem of these foreigners who do not have a regulated status. I think that so far it has shuddered in a possible, impossible way without seriously considering dividing this issue into two laws. In fact, it is trying to cover up in this first law all those who were, I will say, a gentle expression, unkind to the Slovenian state. Today a number of examples, a number of written documents that I have not heard any reasoned response to, were listed here. But it did. This time I say that the answers were with cheap demagogic Flossules. On Saturday, I was at a social meeting where the customs officer told me that the night Slovenia gained independence, suddenly at customs, there were no more 15 workers from other parts of Yugoslavia at the border crossing. Because these customs officers from Slovenia have been under pressure for the last days to have certain functions to perform. They've threatened all possible people in the first place. All of them have gained status today, despite moving out of Slovenia temporarily. That's not true! What was said here was that no one outside of Slovenia had the opportunity to regulate this status simply does not. In recent times, it has been seen that this is a broader scenario and not just to obtain reliable electoral votes. The Trenja show cleared out who's to blame. The Constitutional Court could not decide the case in time. Different political circumstances were awaited and it was consciously waiting for Slovenia to pay compensation, which you no longer hide today. You implicitly admit that damages will be fined. Today you're giving another security guard the right to limit this matter to the state. When I proposed to the Internal Policy Committee on the opinion of the Minister that, on the basis of this law, no one would have the right to claim the refund of material social rights, the Minister should propose that an additional committee be invited to introduce such an article into this law. Was he deaf? Were you all deaf? For this reason, I claim that by this law, as already mentioned, we are interfering with the acquired rights of those who have been respectful of our country. Those foreigners who responded to calls that regulated the status in one way or another that did not say that it was an uncivilised country. Today, the Slovenian state is being blackmailed by those who say today that it is an uncivilised country. It is not true that Slovenia was very and very strict. People who are offensive to the country or who are aggressive to the country in the modern world and even in Europe can even be denied stay. Last week, I was in a delegation that visited Latvia. We know that the Baltic States have overly harsh laws that the European Union did not seem to recognise on its own. However, when the European Union became aware of the seriousness of their internal problems, of the danger of what this would mean for their independence, the identity of these countries, it showed us, as explained, an understanding. You do not claim that by not wanting to include all those who said it was a state without perspective, we will eat grass in this country, which has seduced and intimidated many of our fellow citizens, that they did not decide that it was necessary now, if we make a selective law that will allow the verification of the actions of those to embarrass the country and that they are acting against that country with such initiatives. The Baltic States are an example of love for their country and their country being legitimate in Europe. That's why there are some guards. I therefore believe that the proposal for a veto voted by the Council of State needs to be actually supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My colleague Sok warned me that I had missed him when I gave my word to my colleague Jerovšek. That's right. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members. I will take the risk of giving my opinion on this law. Despite the fact that I am likely to be labeled by the LDS Secretary by Mr Biščak as a legal layman, as he did last in the television show, I would say that all of his interlocutors were uncultured with legal laymen, despite the fact that, of course, lawyers have a different opinion on this matter. If our citizens and citizens listen to us, then they cannot give themselves the impression of who is right, because some of you are defending this path, and some of us are challenging and acting as if we are - I don't know - Babylonians, as if we don't understand each other. Mr Minister said that if we want to reject the veto of the state council, we must vote on what has already been voted on. But it is undeniably a fact - and today some of my speakers have already specified precisely - that this decision of the Constitutional Court is not the only one and that it awaits them in line before this decision. If we want what Minister Bohinc says is a legally regulated and democratic state, then it is certainly necessary to implement all decisions. But not select, some will be executed, and others will not. I'm sure that's exactly the condition for a state governed by law. My appeal to the ruling coalition and the government goes in this direction, however, to regulate those areas which should have been regulated for many years in accordance with the constitutional decision. But they're not arranged. Another time. Some here today have been very emotional about human rights. We've all declared ourselves Democrats. We've made some new country. But in this country it is difficult to speak with such big words, with such a charge, so emotionally about human rights, when many of these rights are severely beaten and far from being arranged. Member of the LDS Mr Školč also spoke about this. I myself have asked Minister Bohinc recently only two matters of the many who have appeared in our media with the names and surnames of the persons who have confirmed that these events have been attended. I asked him what about the mass grave at the Borl Castle. You know what he said to me - because you were there - that they investigated it and that it wasn't there. So there are witnesses with names and surnames that say it was there. There's something I know myself. After the war, children of the nomadic Germans were taken to the closet. There in the castle, these children without parents, little children, died. For a while, these graves are in our closet cemetery. Then - I think in 1997 or 1998 there was an erasure. These little graves are gone today. All of these are - you know - very powerful injustices, which are very painful for many. I myself am one of the younger Members of Parliament. We can look at this period from a distance, as can all those who are born after the war. If we are talking with such an emotional charge - such as Mrs Potrata - on human rights, then this must also be kept in mind. After all, it is our people, as it is in many cases. This raises the question that the President of the Constitutional Court also says that this law is not necessary after all. Part of what was written at the Evening of November 8th was read here today. And I'm going to read the other part myself that hasn't been read. It says: "As can be seen from Judge Ribič's separate opinion, we were even in a dilemma at the time, whether we would issue an interpretative decision, which would mean that the deleted would be automatically recognised as a permanent residence even in return. But then we didn't decide to do it because we would seriously write the law and go too far." Mr Ribičič, one of the constitutional judges, wanted the constitutional decision to resolve the matter even so far as the Constitutional Court decided. He probably knew, or he'll have a chance to explain why he suggested it. But from all that talk and what we can hear, this thing isn't exactly in three days. This law, without actually addressing a specific case, confers this right. I don't know -- you're talking about 18 thousand something, less or less, whether it's true or not. We don't know. This will only prove to be true in the end. In fact, the question is why such an approach. The question is, who are these 18 grand? I know the case of a acquaintance who left in 1992. He was gone for eight years, and then suddenly he came back. I wonder - and of course we all know what we know: Will this mean to him all this time, for all eight years, when he was actually not in this country and he was in some military formation somewhere in the area of Bosnia and he was doing some other thing there, will now all these tragedies be over there? Will he be able to obtain permanent residence under this law, so to speak, to become a regular citizen of this country? Will he be able to show back that this country owes him, I don't know, maybe because the children didn't receive the child allowance or because he didn't get any other social credit, I don't know, the wife wasn't employed and she wasn't insured as an unemployed person? These are all questions that citizens ask themselves. This law and all these debates do not give any answers. The biggest dilemma is, of course, why two laws. Why two laws, if we can do this only in one law and in that law, in such a way that we can effectively prevent these new citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from being able to assert anything in return. I will not support this marriage alone. I will vote in favour of veto, as proposed by the Council of State. I don't think I'm going to do any harm or any undemocratic act. Especially when the President of the Constitutional Court says that this law is not actually necessary. If it is not necessary, we cannot do any harm, nor can we find ourselves before an international court because of such a decision. However, I agree that in the system law of this matter, if injustices have been committed, it is necessary to correct in such a way that these new citizens will not be in a better position than those who have been loyal to this country and have settled these matters in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My friend Run. Did you want a replica, Comrade Potrat? No, no, no. Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I have listened carefully enough or very carefully to the debate of fellow Members and Members who feel that there is no need to back up the law. I'd like to say a few opinions about them. First of all, the common conclusion that, unfortunately, I was not convinced at all. First of all, I am disappointed at the inadequacy of showing some things in the National Assembly when it comes to being erased when it comes to our work. 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court were discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, so do I. It would be right and right that when it comes to order and problems to tell what is going on with these decisions. So it doesn't look like the National Assembly is like that because it doesn't respect anything. I've done - the same text we have - a quick review for the five decisions on these 16's, the deadline is still running. He's not down yet. Nothing can be said about what we consider to be the preferred indent. For 4 decisions, the deadline was set in October. Of these, some things are in the process. Two decisions are implemented. One about war veterans is the amended law, one about Copra in a specific way. I agree that we do not all have to be proud of the way in which the decision in Cyprus has been implemented. It's done. On the basis of the law adopted in the National Assembly, regular elections were held in Cyprus. Later, two others were no longer bound by human rights. [[..]] Three of them are really tied to income. Unfortunately, the first two of these were from 1977. Only in this part is it justified to talk about possible, improper work or the inattention of the national assembly. The colleagues and colleagues who spoke about it, you were eager to talk about 16 with a full equation. Let's give it a little bit - I'd say - let's be embarrassed if we talk this way. Another thing I'd like to say. Look, there's been a number of names and cases listed. Here I say that I will ask the government to resolve if the law is to adopt problems to tell me whether they are all and which of these are related to the issue of deleted which is not. I won't say they didn't. I don't have any evidence that they did. Since not everyone who has received citizenship is not everyone who has received permanent residence in Slovenia at this or other time, not everyone who is known by someone such as a neighbour or a village has been deleted. [[...]] I'm going to demand that the data be given to you. It would be wise for us to act responsibly toward people once and not say anything that suits us with names and surnames without proving it to be true. The letters quoted - I believe they were written. Fortunately, the dates of the writing were also cited. They were all written six months, a year or more after they were erased. The Constitutional Court found that the date of the act was unlawful on 25 or 26 February 1992. Not that someone would then invite someone, but that he might come to settle the matter later. There is talk of whether two marriages are necessary or not. I agree that this debate is possible. Gentlemen, at the same time, when you speak of the futility of this law, you speak of the need to regulate everything in the next law and of the need to set out the criteria by which it will be ensured that this, secondly, thirdly, will not be possible to achieve the fourth. That's possible. But the Constitutional Court has given us a mandate to actually issue this decision directly to so many and so many people, this decision. We decided to get married. Here we go. Today, you are the one who claim at the same time that the law is not necessary, that two laws are unnecessary, that we should do so at the same time and say what is yet to be done in order not to be enforced under a system law, at least contradictory in our own statements. I have no right to have that opinion. I'm sure you can have it. But don't say at the same time things that are contradictory and show duality. Ambiguity that this decision of the Constitutional Court does not wish to be carried out. Reasons can be found to make them up. Look at the connections that are being made. It would be very nice if we did not talk about the same things on every occasion when we talk about anything. I don't know how many times it has to be said that the parties we were in the 1990s in the National Assembly, with a written contract, committed ourselves to working together for the independence of Slovenia. At the time when we wanted to achieve independence, and when we knew that without the uniform operation of the parties, it would not be possible, we were all prepared to sign each other well. Today - don't mind me! - you are getting more and more who have credit for the independence and you are the first fighters - to use this term - and others who may not have wanted it or we had some other hidden purposes. That's not true! The practice of self-reliance was primarily the actions of people, people, Slovenes and Slovenes, Italians, Hungarians and other members who lived here at the time, and the uniform political actions, not one or two, who have great merit in having Slovenia conquered. That's not how it works! It's not right, it's not fair, no one will believe you. To link the issue of the correction of injustices in this case to other injustices - yes, after 1945 the worst injustices were committed, worse than those because people were killed without a court decision. How many times does it take to say that this is a crime, that we regret that we are ashamed that we have tried at best to fix it as much as possible? But you can't fix yourself. You're saying no! We worked together on the laws. There were cases and times when we had more radical views about the inscriptions than you had, and you didn't accept them. But it's a shame to renew it. But saying that there was no willingness to handle it is not true. The death books, the death certificates were arranged six, seven years ago. They're arranged by law. If the marriage is bad, please suggest an improvement. But the law allows these death certificates to be obtained. Today you're still saying there's no way to get death certificates. Cemetery will be late, too late, gradually marked. Just not to say that this makes it impossible to regulate the rights that our country of Slovenia, to which we are all proud, worked ten, twelve years ago. Perhaps it would be easy to correct you, not to tell each other what happened and why. Instead of correcting them as quickly as possible and thus regulating people’s relationships. Let us not poison the atmosphere by displaying examples that neither of us wants. Listen, don't convince any of us that we'll be happy to get rights from someone who's been working against Slovenia, because we don't even know if it's in here. Let us be right to the problems and resolve them as soon as possible. I think it'll be more proud for all of us than forcing unbiased things about a subject that doesn't belong at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much. A colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic. [[You're giving up.]] My friend Puksich's not here. Comrade Dr. Bajuk, please have your word if that's what you want. I think you still have time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To a large extent, this debate was a repeat of the debate we have already had. However, there have been some new data that I would like to mention and also ask for confirmation by government representatives. As the starting point, I would like to mention above all the following. It is good to remember that in his presentation, one of the colleagues who spoke on behalf of his parliamentary group mentioned that there was supposed to be a letter in April 2003, in which an organisation that performs public works on behalf of so-called deleted persons would offer a compensation agreement to the government. I would like to know, Mr Minister, if you can confirm this to us if such a letter actually exists and that you can give it to all of us in the National Assembly before we vote. Let's get to the bottom of this. Otherwise, thanks not to our own thanks, but thanks to the strong and decisive vote of the state council today, we have an option in the National Assembly, and this is the possibility of a correctional examination - as one of our colleagues has already mentioned. For we are given the opportunity to rule again on this law, which was adopted after a very fast procedure. In an unusually extensive debate, when we first discussed this issue in the National Assembly, we have made clear our position that it is imperative that the proposer, the right government, present an assessment of the financial consequences of this law, should be required. Not because our rules of procedure so require common sense and responsible conduct of the national assembly. We warned you about that for nothing. Everything fell into a deaf ear. We have also warned and suggested that there is an urgent need. This was a concrete amendment - which had not been adopted - that this law must include not only the possibility, but the duty of the executive to actually verify every case, every case, but not to go to a global approach. In our assessment, this is the only responsible way to really do what the Constitutional Court has decided. Now for the respect of the Constitutional Court. I think that it is New Slovenia and our colleagues of the Slovenian Democratic Party that we have the moral authority to talk about respect for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Our proposals did not have any intention of not doing so at the time or today. I am sure, as I have already stated in our first debate, that at the time of independence the Slovenian State acted very responsibly when solving all these open issues. We can really be proud. This is not just an individual's assessment. Today we have also heard how this has been assessed by other institutions, from the United Nations to the European Union. However, if there have been mistakes and, of course, I cannot rule it out and the Constitutional Court reminds us of these mistakes, then we must find a responsible way to resolve them. Why do I ask myself not to act in such a way that we really look at all the consequences in the eye and assess whether we are able to do so in this proposal or in the decisions of our constitution that give us the possibility of limiting compensation? Do we have to make up our minds now or not? And how we have to decide that now. That's exactly what I'd like to draw your attention to. Today, for the first time, by representatives of the largest coalition partners of the great coalition, we have heard that they mentioned for the first time in the National Assembly in this discussion the possibility of limiting compensation. Your Honor, if you really want this possibility to exist, you must vote against this law today. Because only if this restriction is actually introduced in the first law will we get rid of what legal experts and constitutional experts have done to us. In fact, if we try to write this down later, we will have problems precisely with the principle of retroactivity of a certain law. Well, that could be one trap, too. That's what I'm warning you about today. Voting against this law, it is said that the National Assembly will decide today that we will keep the veto of the State Council, and also give us the possibility that we will be able to legally introduce this principle of limitation. The restriction must be made on the basis of an actual verification of where we are, how much resources to require it, whether it is absolutely necessary or not. So, once again, if you are really advocating for any possible restriction, as we have heard for the first time today, that you may be concerned, then vote against this law with us tonight. Once and for all, let us take serious and responsible action to solve this problem. It's not in the game here, or we'll respect the Constitutional Court's ruling. I guess we all agree. However, we do not agree in any way. This law, by which the State Council pronounced its veto, is the wrong way. If we want certain restrictions to occur in this area and we are to act responsibly, we must vote against this law today. I hope that's how you do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u53	Okay, thank you very much. Comrade Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, we are considering a topic that has stirred up the Slovenian public, as few so far. After all, this is not surprising, for it is a serious subject that must also be addressed seriously. However, realistically with all possible consequences. I hope to say that this topic was proposed at a precise time. Because after the former Constitutional Judge held this subject for four years as a rapporteur in a drawer, otherwise I can't explain it to myself. It now employs virtually everything that is possible in this country, the judiciary, the government, the national assembly, the state council, the state council, which voted fully to veto, the media and, of course, the citizens. As a result, problems exist for Slovenia in a different way. A lot of different public opinion research, as well as confrontations and contact shows, has been carried out on this topic. There's something interesting. The common denominator of all is as follows: The official ruling political majority overwhelmingly supports this topic on self-declined, deleted. However, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia generally oppose such solutions. Interestingly, regardless of the sample size, the result is always the same. Several studies have been carried out. There's more against it, 90% against it, 10% for it. That's what the samples are. Where a few ten thousand people participated. That's the number. This is what I would like to stress - which is one which should give the proponents thought, we should start thinking about what they are going into and what people think, but nothing. The falling majority are kicking their heads through the wall, no matter what the ten thousand people think, let it cost them as much as they want. But it's going to cost a lot of money, and it's going to cost Slovenian taxpayers. And what's interesting about that is that we're going to solve something that's actually already been solved. We'll just move the solution back to February 1992. What were these people doing in the meantime? Well, that doesn't even matter. There's not even a chance of finding out. If we do this, we'll return the rights. We risk that people who receive these rights without verification will evaluate and sue the country for the appropriate amounts. After all, these people did not want to stay in Slovenia, nor did they want citizenship, nor do they even want to hide it. We can count it as a plus, but it's still the same. Until their solutions for the future collapsed into dust, then they changed their minds. And this group of people has already announced the charges. That's what the government admits. Because she also said that a number of such charges had already been filed. Surely this will be a huge work for the judiciary. According to experience, values will certainly not be small. The claims of some that financial consequences will be. However, these will be the consequences of the deleted decision of the Constitutional Court. One step ahead. A few days ago, we were able to hear that there would be no financial consequences. But it's a bad comfort, a bad argument. This can only be an argument of power and ignorance of the political majority against the will and concern of most citizens, because the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are concerned about how the state will obtain this money, these few hundred billion for the amounts exhausted. Here I would like to highlight the payment of the costs of procedures. That won't be cheap either. The one who loses the process will have to pay for it. Since this will be the country, they will certainly not save on these amounts. This means essentially 1 million per Slovenian family. If we vote on this law today, I can say that it will be best if we call on our Slovenian families to start saving so that we can pay it in such or otherwise. One wonders what country we live in, that the ruling majority ignores the opinion of citizens and by the method of bulldozer a rina with its head through the wall, and wants to enforce its political solutions, which the world does not know and which are also contrary to one basic postulate of law, that is, to change something for validity. That's retroactive. It is also not realistic to state that retroactivity is permissible if public benefit is shown. I wonder what people would say if they were asked about the public benefit of doing so. Is this a public benefit or not a public benefit? This is to some extent a mockery of people’s concerns if the implementation of this law on so - called deleted persons occurs. We, too, are concerned and at the same time appalled by such ignorance of the opinion of citizens who strongly oppose this law. These aren't enough. In our client, we have proposed that we resolve what is possible in this matter. We proposed an amendment to check whether these people were really in Slovenia at the time of returning these rights. With this we wanted to solve possible injustices that could have happened, and perhaps there are some such things involved - with this amendment we wanted to do so. But apparently that was too much. That's obviously not acceptable. This can't be checked. The fact is, it's the ignorance of the ruling majority. But we're really used to it. But this time I think we've crossed every line. It's actually too much. This will and desire to extract the Slovenian state is obviously boundless. Since it is a matter of great money, there is also a lot of interest that the process runs out and that there is a sharing of this money. Such an approach is unacceptable, mainly for two reasons. I've mostly mentioned them, but just to get it over with. It's a huge financial commitment. That's why it's unacceptable. It's about ignoring public opinion. That's unacceptable, too. Therefore, I certainly cannot support such a proposal. I would like to conclude with what they will say in Europe if we so violate human rights. Of course, I'm taking human rights here in concoction. Let me remind you of the Baltic States. I think that Latvia is the one whose one-third of the population is of foreign origin, it doesn't matter which. But then, if these people wanted to get citizenship, they even had to change their last names and their names. Now, if we compare this with our scary stories, what ours had to do to get citizenship is no comparison. We had only what was happening in other European countries. No one had to change their last name. One more thing. All these three countries, including the one I had in mind, have been admitted to the European Union, will be a new Member. I'm not saying I support this. We understand each other. Moreover, it was this country that abolished schools for this one-third of the population at the time of the enlargement of the European Union. It's the people of the Russian speaking area. They dropped their schools in their language. I'm not saying I support it either, but they did. What did Europe say? That's not nice, but it's your internal affairs. So that you don't refer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u55	Order! Don't object!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u56	It's not about Europe and it's not about Europe, it's about us. [[...]] I counted what I think is unacceptable. That's still what I'm saying. This is also reflected in public opinion surveys. Make them. Today will be more than 90% against. There were 90% of them days ago, but now there'll be more. By supporting this rejection they have made in the state world. I will not support this proposal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u57	Mr Ilc, as a representative of the Council of State and a proposaler, you now have the right to respond to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thanks for the final word. This debate is always about some principle, rule of law and order. Only if it is orderly, then it is also consistency and can also be counterproductive. When it comes to respect for human rights, we must not go beyond the famous constitutional law that went beyond the rights of savers, representatives of the Ljubljana Bank in Croatia and Sarajevo. Allow me, the right to property is a constitutional right and a human right, internationally confirmed by ratifications prior to 1994. Not only will this retractive human rescue now strike as a boomerang, will it now require a review of these claims and, on the basis of recognised international human property, will it cause all claims back, in particular, of a property nature. In addition, we can also have back requests from the so-called German minority. We may also have a question of claims, as mentioned, all the roots of the breakup of Yugoslavia, the issue of labour relations, services, as well as various inter-war and post-war beatings. For this reason, I think that there is some kind of retroactive ideal solution that is totally inappropriate. That's why we insist on the proposed veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond to the debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to comment on some of the claims made here or to provide some clarifications in this regard and also answers. First, on Dr. Bayuk's very specific question, which is not here right now, whether any settlement was offered to the government or according to its information, this happened in April 2003. The direct answer to this question can be no. The Government has not received any written proposal for settlement. Not from the organization he's referring to. I don't know where that information came from. With all my responsibility, there is no proposal for a settlement. There is also no reason for any settlement. I have also publicly assessed Mr Krivica's offers in this direction as irrelevant, as unfounded, as irrational. For settlement there must also be a claim against claims, claims and claims. There's no such thing as either. Neither on the part of the injured party nor on the part of the alleged cause of the injury, that is, the State. I have learned from the National Assembly that since 1992, some of them, and by 2003, all seven of them - we call them - have been injured by alleged injuries. This is not entirely related to the issue of deletion, but rather to their failed procedures for obtaining citizenship. In part, however, they were later reclassified in other ways. These are applications addressed to the Ministry. These are not lawsuits. I would therefore like to correct those criticisms, this statement that I did not further assess the merits of the claims and thus intervene in the jurisdiction of the court. These applications were addressed to the Ministry. The Ministry has every right to express its opinion on this. It is our view that these claims are unfounded and that there is insufficient evidence to state that there has been damage in the causation of their deletion or irregularity of their status. To be perfectly precise, in these seven, two were later reclassified to suit applications, according to public defence information. So, this is statistics from 1992 to today, statistics from 11 years of age that show what the mood is about filing claims. On the basis of this statistics, it is difficult to judge how the State must react by some means of protection, by some restrictions on its material interests or the like. But if that were to change, for once I see no arguments in this statistic 7 to 18 thousand, but then, of course, there are tools within the constitutional regime of the country. If necessary, the state will definitely pick them up and there is no basis for that at any time. The case law has not yet said anything about this, but of course it will be necessary to act, not by technical law or by that other law, but by means of a bond law, by the general rules of civil law. It means that it will be necessary to prove that the damage has indeed been done, that the State is responsible for this damage and the causal link between one and the other, and that for 11 years. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are also outdated deadlines and that if the damage has been done after the allegations of those who speak about it in 1992, then at least this part of the damage, which was then and later, has ever been obsolete with a five-year limitation period. We have studied these things very carefully, believe me, with a group of civilians, legal experts, and linking this issue with perhaps two-handed attempts by some individuals to draw from it, of course this integration is not justified, there is no professional basis. So much for that. I would like to react, for example, to the people who were listed here who left Slovenia and then came back and now exercise this status. I would like to make it very clear once again that the law we are talking about today does not deal with these people. These people, if they have not been granted a residence permit in Slovenia but have not received it if they have interrupted their stay here, are therefore not subject to consideration under this law. Most of these people who have been spoken about today are those who belong to another law, that is, because they have acquired citizenship or have obtained residence permits on the basis of relief. This law expressly excludes those who have been granted a residence permit on the basis of relief. In fact, why is that important? Because this category of people was not specifically checked or conditioned for their permanent stay here, it was only a family reunion. It is because the actual life in Slovenia has not already been demonstrated in the administrative process that these people are not in this group covered by this law. In this group covered by this law, therefore, only those who have already proven life in administrative proceedings have lived in Slovenia since the day of plebiscite. And if we do not believe that this has already been demonstrated in the administrative procedure, proven in a rather complex process, then we do not believe in the institutions of our country or in the proper functioning of the administrative bodies that have already done so. However, I think we have no reason not to believe this, and of course it is necessary to attach it to the administrative authority that has already carried out this procedure. It is therefore only to draw attention to the conclusion of the actual stay which has already been adopted in the administrative procedure. So many, just a few comments on the fact that cases are not actually part of today's treatment but are part of the treatment of the so-called system law, where it is expressly envisaged that, on the basis of the criteria set out there, the whole administrative procedure for determining whether conditions include continuous stay, a one-year break is allowed from the day of plebiscite in the country. This is also the answer to the question that has been asked here repeatedly, why two marriages. It is because the category of people who are indisputable from the point of view of proven residence that this category is exclusively covered by this law. All the other cases, that's the difference between about four thousand and 18 thousand, if we're talking about statistics, which means 14,000 are the cases that are going to be dealt with under the system law, and today we're talking only about that. I therefore propose to the National Assembly that we support the law, on this basis we can carry out what is our duty if we believe in the rule of law and comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u61	The time for discussion is up. Before we finish this point, I'd like to inform you of the following. I think that it was agreed in this assembly that it was necessary to do everything possible to enforce the decisions adopted by the Constitutional Court and that it is unacceptable that any action that has expired is not yet in force. I asked the secretary general if I could get the most up-to-date information. In the last eight years, eight such decisions have been adopted, which have not yet been enforced by law, in this mandate four. There are 16 of them, besides those whose time has not yet run out. I would certainly like to tell this High Council that, at a college where the government is present, I will encourage a discussion on how to do as much as possible with a work plan until the end of the mandate on this issue. I will conclude this debate with this. I must warn you again, I hope that this will not be too much for us to decide on this agenda item tonight, fifteen minutes after the 7th item of the agenda, so that there will be no misunderstandings about this. So I'm breaking up with this point. We're moving to 3. Period of the day - This is the second defence proposal of the Law on Change and Complementation of the Law on Excise. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. We'll wait for government representatives to come to the hall. Otherwise, this has been addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Does President Cyril Pucko want a word? Please, Comrade Pucka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President or Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues. That proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration was considered by the Committee at its 42nd meeting and in accordance with the very broad opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on 1, 6, 7, 9, 10, 14, 22, 25, 32, 38, 46, 53 and in view of the comments proposed by the Economic Chamber of Slovenia and other interested parties and amendments to the two qualified applicants, adopted a series of amendments to correct the basic text of the law. Accordingly, I propose to the assembly that this text of the bill as a complementary proposal of the law be supported by the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, he has the word Dr. Jože Bernik, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be very brief. If these changes truly reflect adaptation to European laws in this matter, we will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Kebrich will present the DeSUS position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u66	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues and government representatives. Excise is an important source of the state budget, so we cannot care what they are, how they are accepted and how they move. We believe in the Group that the broad debate on the Committee, where it is correct, and from all the different angles of view, has been presented with arguments that say that this law is necessary or that it is appropriate to do so. We share the opinion of the Committee in our parliamentary group and, as such, we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. Also in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this proposal for a law which has, of course, been awarded to the Committee on Finance. In doing so, I would point out that, unfortunately, the old practice is repeated, we are doing a lot of doing in the National Assembly, which the government has not done. But anyway, that's why we're here. It is an important issue of taxation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, mineral oils and gas, and of course it is a problem of providing revenue to the state budget. I would like to point out that statistics show that in Slovenia over the last period, some medium-term recent period, as regards expenditure in the state budget, we are seeing a steady increase in these expenditure, sustainable growth, while Slovenia has growing problems on the revenue side. Of course, excise legislation and, of course, the remaining tax legislation are so delicate and any changes related to this legislation must also be dealt with by the long-term provision of all planned budget expenditure. Of course, the proposed amendment to the excise law follows this year's signed Treaty of Accession to the European Community. It is, in short, in order to comply with the already agreed adaptation to the European acquis in this area and is also consistent with the agreed transitional periods of excise duty raising, in particular for tobacco products. Our Group of Members, as probably any other in this House, has also been subjected to pressure from interested companies from a particular area to make only a few changes. I must say that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also assume some responsibility for the fact that we must respect the agreed agreement, we must respect the signed Treaty of Accession to the European Community and adapt the excise policy as agreed by our negotiators. I would only stress this - and I would also appeal here to the government - in the future to make more substantial efforts to ensure adequate revenue work in the Slovenian budget on the basis of an appropriate tax policy, and thus also excise policy, because in the Slovenian Democratic Party we assess that the issue of both incoming budgets and longer-term budgetary planning is a key issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Grošelj will present the position of the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u70	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague, welcome! The Excise Act, which was enacted on 1 July 1995, has undergone quite a few changes. The legislative changes followed those inconsistencies with European legislation that were prudently enforced before Slovenia's membership in the European Union and those changes that coexisted in the negotiations at the time of accession to the European Union. The current amendment or proposed amendments and additions to the excise duty law are without prejudice, as stated in the explanatory note, to the already established regime for the control of the movement of excise goods between the Member States of the European Union, which allows the maintenance of the basic principles of excise duty taxation even after Slovenia has entered the European Union, when customs authorities will no longer carry out controls on the movement of excise goods at border crossing points with other Member States, and this control will be transferred to the destination of the consignment of excise goods. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we consider it appropriate for the Government to supplement and amend each existing solution by fully aligning the amended excise law with European legislation in this field, and by complementing the regulation of excise duties on cigarettes in order to take account of the previous period already reached by 1.1.2008. The bill contains all six directives of the European Council, which means that even in our country, Slovenia, excise duties are based on the following general definitions: that it is a tax on consumption, that it is based on the principle of destination, that it is determined in the bulk of the absolute volume, according to the natural unit of the individual product and similar. Therefore, excise duties shall be charged in the same amount or at the same amount, whether they are excise goods produced or obtained in Slovenia or imported from a third country. We also believe in the UK Group that the amendment of the law specifies precisely which territories are subject to the new regulation and which are still subject to the provisions governing the importation or export of excise goods to third countries, that the law contains the simplification of the business of economic operators producing excise goods from other countries, and therefore the introduction of three new institutions, an authorised and unauthorised recipient and a tax representative, also takes into account the principle that excise products between Member States are, in principle, moving under the suspension of excise duty, regulated the way in which excise goods are moved between Member States of the European Union by means of a excise document. In order to comply with the European Directives, each excise product is complemented and precisely defined. The proposal for a law follows the possibilities offered by the current European regime for the non-payment of excise duty from renewable sources and also contains amendments to the excise law, which means compliance with the new offence law or the imposition of criminal sanctions for the re-defined actual situation. The Legislative and Legal Service has made comments to each article, which the Committee has taken into account, based on the adoption of its amendments. The Committee has also taken into account, or adopted, amendments to, qualified applicants, both Articles 11, 13 and 32 contained in the amended bill amending and supplementing the excise law. That is why, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will also support the complementary proposal of the Law on excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of liberal democracy will be presented by the mag. Blaze Kavčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u72	Dear Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Colleagues and colleagues! The law deals with the taxation of alcohol, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, mineral oils and gas. It covers both products produced in the territory of Slovenia and imported. The amendments to the excise legislation have already been made to the extent necessary prior to the entry into the European Union. However, the applicable excise duty law currently does not contain provisions on the taxation of excise goods entered into Slovenia by Slovenian entities from other Member States of the European Union or sent there. That is why the government is proposing these additions. The transfer of controls from customs authorities to the destination of the consignment of excise goods is also taken into account. In short, it has already been mentioned that an amendment has also been made to, i.e. a proposal for a change for a different, lower taxation of the burden of beer. In the LDS Group, we agreed that there are quite a few valid arguments for considering this. This is because especially border areas with Italy are exposed to an extremely large difference in the excise burden of this drink, but at this point, conditions have not been provided because the relevant articles of this Act have not been opened and consideration should be given to whether the prospect of excise duty would be addressed by another proposal to amend this law. This time, the government has proposed in particular those additions that are necessary due to the new situation with Slovenia entering the European Union. In addition to other proposals, members of the LDS, Anderlič and Kavtičnik also made proposals for amendments, which the Committee has mainly taken in the substantive sense, so we will support in the LDS Group a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Saša Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u74	Your Honor! According to our assessment, it is appropriate to ask first of all about the purpose of dealing with this law, given that, in the course of the negotiations on Slovenia's entry into the EU, Slovenia has in one way or another advocated the transposition of excise legislation into domestic law. On the other hand, the drafter states that by amending the law he will intervene in principle or create the principle of purpose, that is, movement. However, according to our assessment, other negative characteristics are particularly behind the amendments. In spite of the negotiating points of the Republic of Slovenia in the course of the negotiations or accession to the European Union, the draft law will, to the extent that it is adopted, experience a deficit in the area of tax revenue, in particular on the basis of the so-called liquidity change or our assessment of the liquidity trap, and this address will not result in such funds or increased resources in the state budget, as indicated by the drafters in the material. Of course, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, the sole objective cannot be to pursue higher financial revenues from the above-mentioned matter, because if this were the goal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then it would actually raise all tax rates and excise duty is a tax in our country - and thus pursue such a goal. It is our view that raising budget revenues from such an address is, of course, inappropriate. Not particularly for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the fact is that from this title certain excise duties on individual products will be lifted under the pretext or made subject to the pretext of so-called European Union legislation. On the other hand, on the 39th page of the Rapporteur you note that exemption from excise duty will, of course, avoid those transactions or those international transactions on behalf of the Member States of NATO. According to our assessment, this is, of course, a double or uneven approach to the payment of excise duties, as set out in this title, i.e. on the basis of a liquidity trap, that is to say, a shift between the inflows of money under this title and the diversity of taxation, i.e. excise taxation, will not be supported by the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Even the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Ivan Bozič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good day to you all! The proposal for a bill amending the excise law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, supplemented by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, is, in our opinion, suitable for admission. Nevertheless, this proposal raises some other questions that we believe should be raised and should also be answered accordingly. While excise duties are a relatively important tax source, they concern a small number of so-called excise taxpayers and are therefore under-emphasized, which is also reflected in the proposal we have before us. In our view, too little attention has been paid to the preparation of the proposal, as many technical amendments prove. In addition, this is justified by the fact that the applicant did not pay enough attention to showing regulation in other legal systems, as he listed only the European Community guidelines on excise duties. Moreover, only proforma compared the arrangements in the three other Member States of the European Union, not indicating why it chose those countries, nor presenting their excise system, but merely certain cuts. We estimate that, despite the urgent adaptation of our legislation, Europe needs to devote sufficient time and energy to the preparation of proposals, as other countries have significant experience in this area and should transfer their experience to our system in a more qualitative manner, in order to improve the implementation of the excise system in our country. Our next suggestion is about the issue and importance of public-financial excise earnings. As we know, excise duties are taxed on products that have a negative impact on the environment [[Mineral oils]] or to life and health [[Tobacco products and alcohol]] . In doing so, we do not intend to question the level of excise duty rates, but in particular the fact that there is not even an indirect link between excise revenue and the country's expenditure on environmental recovery and human health. We believe that, to a greater extent, these links should be established and, for example, excise revenue from tobacco products and alcohol should be devoted to promoting a healthy lifestyle, such as prevention, as well as the treatment of diseases resulting from smoking and drinking alcohol in curativa. Such a system would also be more moral from the country's point of view, as there would be no argument that the State would promote the consumption of alcohol and tobacco, as this would result in higher public financial revenues for it. The arguments in the field of mineral oils are similar, as in our view the country should pay greater financial attention to renewable energy sources. Nevertheless, we would like to point out some of the conclusions drawn from the above conclusion on the preparation of the proposal itself. Certain solutions in the proposal, which, while reasonably well summarised in the excise guidelines, may cause some confusion in the application of this law. Thus, in our view, new concepts such as 'authorised recipient', 'unauthorised recipient', 'tax representative' and similarly, are directly translated and summarised from the guidelines, but in our legal system they may cause little confusion. Thus, for example, the unauthorised recipient is more reminded of the recipient who obtained something without authorisation than of the recipient of excise goods who receives it from another Member State on a temporary basis and who is required to collect the excise duty immediately after receipt. It is similar with the tax representative’s point of view, since he is the holder of a excise warehouse from another Member State to exercise obligations and enforce rights under the excise law on his behalf and for his account. It is therefore a tax representative who is authorised only under the excise law and not under all tax laws. However, we estimate that the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the excise law is such that it represents a solid legal text and that, after some additions to the home committee, it meets or brings to Slovenia the requirements of the secondary legislation of the European Community and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday, 28.11.2003 after the end of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you. The 4th item of the agenda is due at 2.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u78	We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for legislation to reduce the tax liability. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. With regard to this law, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has also proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first give the floor to the proposer, in order to further explain the draft law. Mr. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u79	Mr. Vice President, thank you so much for your words. Well, hello to all your colleagues and colleagues in the hall. Dear government officials! By 2001 we had an agreement in Slovenia on a policy on wages adopted by the social partners and the country. The Act on the Extreme Reduction of Tax Liabilities, which implemented an agreement on the disposal of natural persons with the worst income situation, also ceased to apply with its expiry. This created a legal void, which is being filled by the proposed law introduced by New Slovenia. The key solutions to this law are to exempt income in part or in full those whose annual income does not exceed 45% of the average gross wage in Slovenia. For those who do not earn 40% of the average gross salary, the whole exemption is 70% for those who earn up to 42% of the average gross wage. And for those between 42 and 45%, 40% off-limits. This proposal is similar to that adopted by the Drnovška Coalition in 99 and was still in force during the Bajuk government, with the introduction of a three-stage scale by this proposal, by adapting the benefits according to the level of income, which is more appropriate in terms of fairness. Therefore, in New Slovenia, it is surprising that the ruling coalition no longer has the will to enforce the principles of our Constitution, according to which Slovenia is a social state. The financial implications of the law on the budget will be even smaller than those of 2000 and 2001. However, it will have a beneficial effect on the poor strata of our citizens. Such exemption or reduction of income is clearer, cleaner and fairer in terms of transparency of public transfers than various indirect reliefs under individual laws that provide relief prior to payment. In other countries, they have similar solutions, although EU regulation is not homogenised. That is why each country rules this area on its own. The solution we are proposing is even more similar to those in Germany, and the Income Act is also there, namely "Alkommen Gezetz" of 97, which allows the income base for income without limitation and most with limitations to a certain amount, repairs that establish the income base without limitation and most with limits to a certain amount. In Germany, this amount, which does not pay the income gradually increases. From EUR 7,235 in 2002 to EUR 7,600 in 2005, which shows that they are listening to the lowest levels. Finally, such a law also has the effect of rationalising work, since it is not necessary for these persons to then make these payments and payments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr. Drobnič, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u81	Thank you very much again. So, the opinion of the Group of Members - in the Group of Members, we are inclined to the solutions that provide in a transparent way facilitation or transfers to the poorest. However, we oppose those based on controversial merits, principles of power and non-compliance with socio-economic status. In Slovenia, there is still a lot of payout for social transfers that duplicate and triple, thereby providing preferential incomes, creating unfair inequalities and injustices, and in particular ignoring the key condition for such relief or transfer as the cumulativeness of financial revenues and the obstruction of human or family obligations. The opinion of the government and the legislative service goes in the direction that the law is a belt, so it is no longer up to date. This happened because he waited so long to be treated that he became less up to date this year. But it's kind of up-to-date for the future. That is why we do not accept the government's opinion, but it can also have a retroactive effect because the accounts are being made. In Novi Slovenija, we do not aim to regulate the constitutional changes we like, with no effect on people, especially those who spoil and cause confusion in constitutional matter. We are dealing with real problems and problems, in particular ensuring a sustainable level of the lower layer. In order to fill this legal void, we decided in Novi Slovenija to introduce a law that will provide the necessary relief for the people who have the worst income in our country, where severe social disintegration takes place. On the one hand, we have witnesses to the formation of rich people, with billions, speculative earnings, on the other hand poor people, poor families and children who live hand in hand, have no free compulsory education and many more. Finally, the constitutional provision on income is still not realized, as is the case with ridicule, i.e. a young generation living in a modest situation, or in numerous families. For seven years, the ruling coalition has refused to implement these constitutional provisions on income relief for the largest families. But it responds very quickly, as far as we have seen the marriage today, with regard to so - called deleted ones that have not been erased at all. Again, it is important to stress that our Constitution, in terms of ensuring human, social and economic rights, is fully appropriate. Implementation of implementation, that's problematic. We will support this law in the parliamentary group because we have also tabled it for key substantive reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Diaci, Young People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. This is another piece of legislation which, unfortunately, in the National Assembly, is unlikely to receive sufficient support. The Act, which was created on the basis of an agreement between the social partners in 1999, expired in 2001. Thus, for two years the population with relatively poor income has no longer been entitled to an exceptional reduction in income. Of course, the government does not support this proposal. Among the reasons for such a decision, it stated that, in accordance with the laws adopted, direct transfers of the State to ensure social security and family benefits have increased significantly. Unfortunately, in her opinion, we do not find all these additional benefits and aids listed, so it is not clear which benefits the government had in mind. Since 2001, with the exception of minor corrections to the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, we do not really know about any significantly greater social transfers and aid that the most disadvantaged population would receive, on the contrary. A new law on income is being drawn up, not only that it will not legislate the Constitutional Court's decision to increase the allowance for children, but also that families with multiple children will be in worse shape. Other reliefs that are now in force will also be abolished, so we cannot discuss what essential benefits. Among the reasons for the failure to support the law, the government also cited a faster increase in the minimum wage compared to the average wage. Thus, the minimum wage of December 2002 is to be 103,643 tolars, but that is a gross amount. In fact, the worker gets a good 70 grand. So, according to the government, little more than 70,000 tolars are sufficient wages for survival and, most importantly, income payments. So there is a totally impossible situation where taxpayers have enough income to pay income in the state budget, and then the state budget gives these same people money through social transfers due to low income. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the bill. Slovenia is supposed to be a social state under the Constitution, but we can see that this is less with every law adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Valentin Pohorec, DeSUS. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Visjak, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill mainly for the reason that the Slovenian government is obviously not aware of the serious problem that is facing quite a good part of Slovenia and the Slovenians - this is an increase in the proportion of poverty in our country. I am sorry that there are no appropriate measures taken by the Slovenian Government to ease these people's distress. An attempt by a fellow Member is an attempt to reduce in some way the most affected level of people's income in relation to gross income deposits in the past year. We are convinced that the lack of transparency of all social transfers is also a consequence of the poor and, last but not least, of the inadequate treatment that does not only address this problem but even deepens. As a result, this bill is an attempt to draw attention to this problem. Perhaps the law has certain shortcomings which can be remedied in the procedure if that is the only reason for it. Unfortunately, we can see that there is no will, and we cannot explain this to ourselves in any other way than that the government is closing its eyes to this problem. I would suggest that the government, as we have Members, organises some greater contact with the population so that, after all, they will receive many visits from people in distress and people in distress who do not see from this and then pressure us, Members, in one way or another. This is why such initiatives are also born. I therefore propose that this proposal be taken seriously, that we not least let it go into the procedure and that it listens to this problem in a much more subtle manner than the government is doing now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Grošelj, United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that we will not support the proposed law in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. While we are aware of the well-meaning nature of the proposal, which seeks to relieve those citizens and citizens in the most difficult material situation of the burden of payment of income. We are also aware that the number of those in the first lowest tax grade has increased significantly over the last six, seven years and is now over 63 and a half percent. All of this clearly points to social deliberation and the fact that many people are in a situation that also needs specific measures to improve their social situation. The Act on the Extreme Reduction of Tax Liabilities, which was adopted in an agreement on wage policy for the period 99/2001, had this function, as it was intended to replace the special so-called Dragon Supplement introduced by the Minimum Wages Act as a result of the introduction of value added tax in mid-1999. This exceptional tax burden on taxpayers in the lowest income class expired in 2001. At that time, however, the situation has changed, as we have made some changes in cooperation between the government and other social partners, which have improved the social situation of the minimum income groups. Even with our great efforts, agreements have been reached that may increase the minimum wage higher than other wages, and the Social Protection Act has been amended to significantly increase the social benefits of the most vulnerable social groups in the last two years. Family legislation has brought additional funds to those families whose situation is weaker and so on. In short, as a government party, we have tried and will also strive for the future to improve the material position of the weakest, since we are far from satisfied with the current situation. The problems of the material situation of the weak will also be solved in a way that reduces the income obligations of the lower grades of payment. Agreements have been reached in this direction in the Economic Social Council, and changes in tax legislation are also being prepared in this direction, which we will soon talk about in this National Assembly. At that time, even with the more favourable solutions provided by the bill-maker, we will also regulate the obligation to pay income in the lowest income classes. Finally, we all know that in the final stage there is also a process for adopting the 2004 budget, which does not foresee the negative financial impact of the proposed law, and its adoption would reopen the question of how to close the proposed and harmonised budget. Surely the opposition Members can also afford seemingly friendly laws that open up the deficit in the public treasury, which are responsible for government parties without finding alternative funds, we cannot afford. For all the things mentioned in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the bill proposed by the colleague of mags. We're not going to support the little guy at today's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Cyril Pucko, Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! 155. Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia prohibits the return of legal acts, i.e. laws. An exception under a specific law is provided only if it requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. In this case, a more favourable arrangement for individual persons is not sufficient because it is an entire law and not just an individual provision, but also a requirement of public interest. The Act on the Extreme Reduction of Tax Liabilities was adopted in accordance with an agreement on wage policy for the period 1999-2001 and its validity expired under the terms of this Agreement. The situation has changed significantly since the entry into force of that law. Direct transfers of the country to ensure social security have increased significantly. At that time, the minimum wage also increased faster than the average wage. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia does not support this law and will vote in favour of the proposal for a decision of the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Slovenian National Party, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and friends, guests! With the expiry of the wage policy agreement for the period 1999 to 2001, the Act on the Exceptional Reduction of Tax Liabilities also expired. This has led to an agreement between the social partners on the decommissioning of natural persons with a poorer income position. In the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the expiry of this Act on the exceptional reduction of the tax liability has also created a legal void. I think that both the proposer and some others have expressed their views. In fact, for people who actually live on the edge, that is to say, at some minimum that we have to set, this means that they would not pay their incomes, so that they would be justified. The purpose of the bill is to allow for an exceptional reduction in the tax liability of persons, as I said, liable to income, who have annual income from any source up to 45% of the annual average wage of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. This would give effect to the constitutional principle that Slovenia is a social state; this is enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, it's interesting what law enforcement says. This points to the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, thus pointing out the 155th Article, which prohibits - this is very important - which prohibits the retroactive application of legal acts, unless the public benefit so requires. Well, I can't get past the deleted laws here, or it'll pay back the rights and compensation back, if of course it's forbidden. But let's just leave it. While the Government of the Republic of Slovenia says that it disagrees with the proposed law, it notes that the situation has changed significantly since the entry into force of this law. I am not reading this for nothing, since, in accordance with the right government, direct transfers of the country to ensure social security and family benefits will be substantially increased in accordance with the laws adopted. I'd be very happy if that were the case and if that were true. My only question is when they will. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law on the exceptional reduction of tax liability.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Ivan Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Proposed law on the exceptional reduction of the tax base proposed by the Member of the National Assembly of Magi. Janez Drobnič, in our view, is non-systemic and does not solve the key problems in the social field. We must be aware that legislation on taxation of income can have significant tax political consequences. Thus, tax legislation can also make a key contribution to raising the income position of the debtors, to the greatest extent our citizens. We ourselves consider that social legislation, which taxes the income of individuals, is one of its essential components and public forms. Social tax policy measures must be incorporated into systemic legislation, which is not being resolved by the proposed law. For example, if we want to relieve first-class taxpayers, for example, it is somewhat unrealistic to estimate their personal income tax over the course of the year and then return it in the second half of the following year, according to the specific law that this proposal represents. We estimate that the basic purpose of such a proposal is significantly affected by this, since the monthly revenues of these taxpayers are still taxed under the provisions of the Income Laws, but do not take into account the exceptional reduction in the tax base. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will endeavour to integrate appropriate social measures into the system's income law and, in addition, through budgetary expenditure for social purposes. In this way, we believe that legislation would be much more social, and that legislation would be much more social, rather than through specific laws. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are proposing, we will not support the proposal, but we will work and advocate the unloading of the weakest segments of the population in the new Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. The proposal for a decision of the home working body will be decided today, in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the final discussion of item 7 of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll start with point five at 3:25.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u95	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to five. Agenda item - Second Commentary Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection of Animals. The draft law was tabled by Mr Saša Peca. I give the text to the proposer for further explanation of the proposal [[five minutes]] . I don't see Mr. Pečet in the hall right now. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Janez Kramberger to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, I would like to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which, as a parent working body, dealt with the above-mentioned law. We've dealt with the law a second time. If you remember, for the first time, the position of the Committee on Agriculture was that this law was inappropriate and we changed our position at the plenary session. So, at the meeting, we re-examined this proposal and some dilemmas were reopened, particularly whether this law is really a place to solve this kind of problem, and some dilemma was about the very entry of animals into public places. At the final stage, the Committee endorsed and adopted the proposal for a two-pronged law with two amendments tabled by colleague Lydia Majnik. This is how we propose that the National Assembly adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much. In the meantime, Mr Pece has arrived, and let us give this opportunity to the proposer, exceptionally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u98	Your Honors are here! President, I thank you for the opportunity to perform later. As a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law, I have sought only to pursue one objective: to allow disabled persons to be pursued by their instruments, their forms of assistance, their actual movement in society and their inclusion in society. According to the National Party's assessment, in the past, both in the field of local communities and in the field of various institutions in our country, it has been shown that disabled persons, especially blind persons, cannot enter public places with dogs. Therefore, in cooperation with various institutions dealing on the one hand with animal protection and, on the other hand, with persons with disabilities or with disability issues, we have written or written the aforementioned law. In his main or primary appearance before this national council, the law was negative, since the matter of disabled persons is not part of the animal protection law. On the other hand, it must be said that this might be true. However, this fact is true, unfortunately, because of the exclusive guilt of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has not yet prepared a comprehensive law on disability organisations since independence. To which the National Assembly, at first reading, adopted and held that the law was fit for minor corrections. However, because the evidence was more or less direct or indirect, that the law represented some kind of political interference in the space, we decided that we would not participate in the drafting of the amendments for the second time. That is why we have allowed or allowed the proposals of the amendments, which all were based on a natural principle, that is, on the idea of the legislative and legal service, to be left to the group of Members. By assessing that the current law, the law on the protection of animals before us today, meets all the criteria that, on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, the Secretariat for Legal Affairs in the framework of the National Assembly and, of course, various political appetites. All along with one and the same common denominator, this is to enable disabled persons to equally integrate the blade into the development of our society, while fulfilling their primary and secondary needs. Therefore, in the national party, we thank Mrs Lidija Majnik, who has tabled an amendment with the other Members, so that she is no longer controversial for those who have seen only individual terms, or dictions, in the proposals of the basic law. In the national party, we also call on all Members and Members to support the proposal of the law and thus enable one of those provisions of the Constitution to be implemented, since disabled persons are a constitutional norm that we started a procedure to amend the Constitution a week ago. The fact is, this time, politics has the possibility that initiatives to change the constitution will fall to fertile ground. So that we can decide if we wanted to put some matter in the constitution. Today, of course, we can also appeal to a good traveler in the future so that such ideas about the writing of the constitution can actually come to life. We will support the bill in the national party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Government representatives did not join the debate. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Magus first. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted, again, everyone in the hall. Animal Protection Act. It is somewhat unusual that the substance, that is, the legal matter of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society, appears in the Animal Protection Act. From a substantive point of view, there is certainly nothing to dispute. However, it may be possible to make this decision or arrangement some difficulty in ensuring the entry of guide dogs into certain public areas: theatre, opera, shrines, and so forth. At the same time, it would be necessary to ask how it would be by installing such dogs as guides in order not to appear unjustifiablely, even unjustifiablely, a negative response of people to such procedures. We are certainly in favour of a solution in this direction in New Slovenia, but the consequences need to be anticipated. However, we will support the law. At the same time, we must urgently ask ourselves what is the law on the integration of persons with disabilities. In fact, this law should be legal matter in this law, and we have long missed it in Slovenia. It could be arranged according to the model of American law governing the integration of disabled persons, "American Disability Act", where solutions for public transport are regulated, regarding buildings, access, signal devices, entry of dogs escorts, assistants for disabled persons, elimination of actual discrimination, obstacles, promotions for healthy cities, municipalities, people with disabilities-friendly communities, and much more could be found missing in the implementation legislation of the Republic of Slovenia. We talked about including the concept of disability and disability in constitutional matter, but it's just sand in the eyes. We should seriously ask ourselves what we are doing at the implementation level, at the implementation level, but of course it is limping here. The government has not prepared it, although it has been promising a similar marriage for several years. On the other hand, we do not have a system for evaluating disabled people, which would lay a more fair basis for paying social transfers, technical assistance, other assistance, and the lack of hope for guide dogs. So, there is still a lot missing, and we miss that about everything that's going on today and what we're going to vote on. If the government does not prepare this, then we will have to take the side of the New Slovenia or the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Young people's party, Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that at least once in this National Assembly, common sense will prevail in the vote on the disabled and this law will be passed. We are aware that this solution is not ideal and it will be necessary to introduce this provision into the newly emerging law on the equalization of the opportunities of people with disabilities. But by the time he is adopted, there is likely to be more years, while the blind and the visually impaired need help now. It is for this reason that we are pleased that this amendment has not come across a deaf ear and that we can see how little of the good will and efforts of Members make a significant difference in the lives of a blind and visually impaired person. Waiting for a new marriage does not seem tragic to someone who is not disabled. He does not need to face daily obstacles and restrictions imposed on him by other people. I mean both the architectonic and the obstacles that are placed in human laws. This also violates their human rights, since dogs guide blind or visually impaired people are often just a tool. They replace his vision by helping him with tasks that are for a person who sees something quite normal. We hope that this law will be unanimously supported by Members today. Such a solution that would make life so much easier for a disabled person should be exemplary in the preparation and adoption of other laws. We must admit that many times when we deal with laws, we forget the special needs of certain categories of people and thus neglect to make their lives entirely unintentionally difficult. Not only in the drafting of laws specifically governing the disabled and otherwise affected persons, but also in the preparation of general laws, they should pay more attention to their needs. In this case, we see that only minor changes in the provisions of the articles can mean a significantly facilitated life for someone else. Members of the Youth Party will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u104	Mr. President, Your Honor! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and thus support the addition of the Animal Protection Act in Articles 13 and 46. We did the same before we voted in the National Assembly against the proposal for a decision that this law was not suitable for further consideration. By implementing the proposed law, free access to public spaces, public institutions and public transport facilities would be provided to all guides of the blind and to disabled dogs. With the support of the proposed law, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party apply the constitutional duty and obligation we have entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this provision, which states that it is the duty of the State to provide assistance to the weak and the needy, we have decided to support the proposed law, despite the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that the regulation of this matter does not fall within the law on the protection of animals and in spite of all the concerns accompanying the above-mentioned legislative proposal. To mention only the dilemma surrounding the necessary tipper and all the other dilemmas that accompanied this bill. We will support and support the law also because of our obligations to international documents which impose on us how and how accessibility to the physical environment is regulated for disabled persons and clearly exposed to the country's obligations, as highlighted by the European Union of Blind People among others. We will support it, despite the fact that such a dog guide, which we allow to enter public spaces and public transport without a tipter, also poses a potential threat to the environment. In weighing this dilemma, we have concluded that the benefits of such an arrangement are significantly greater than the potential threat that such a dog, which is properly trained and selected and, together with the assistance of the needy custodian, poses to the environment. We will also support both the proposed amendments and the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the United List, Mrs Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Animal Protection Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by Member Saša Peca on the initiative and wish of some disabled persons who face obstacles in their daily lives that prevent them from carrying out normal activities and tasks. This is not the first proposal and an initiative addressed by civil society or a disability organisation to Members or the National Assembly and has been adopted. Let us recall only the previous extraordinary meeting when almost all Members and Members took the initiative to initiate a procedure to amend Article 14 of the Constitution of Slovenia when we decided that in an article guaranteeing equal human rights or equality before the law, we would also write the word disability. The current Animal Protection Act, in its Article 13, allows guide dogs to blind and disabled dogs to have no bait in public places and means of public transport. The proposed amendment further regulates the right of these dogs to enter all public places and means of public transport together with their custodians, as this right has been regulated so far by the regulations of the local communities which have dealt with this issue differently. Dogs and their guardians depended solely on the obedience of the local community or even the obedience of some individuals in the exercise of this right. That is why we will support the proposed changes in the UK Group of Social Democrats, as we also expect the government and the relevant ministries to follow these adjustments when preparing a proposal for a law on the equalization of opportunities for disabled persons in such a way that this area and the use of dogs as devices for blind and visually impaired ones will be properly regulated, as it is well known that a guide dog or guide represents a disabled person, and in particular for a blind person the necessary aid in overcoming the urgent movemental handicaps, as it is sovereign and mobile. The dog guide is a technical tool for a blind person. We must be aware, however, that this is not a technological product, but an animal, a living creature, which is also treated as such by the rules of compulsory health insurance and in their rules accurately and accurately state the manner and choice of the dog, the upbringing of the dog, the care, the selection of the insured person or the blind person, and the manner in which the commission works and operates. This arrangement has been supported so far by the Association of Blind and Invisible Slovenian Associations, which supports these proposed changes, and that is why we will also support it in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs. Lydia Majnik, Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have already stated at first reading the reasons why we voted against the initial decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We have followed the call of the Association of Blind and Invisible Slovenian Associations to resolve this issue in this law. We have also drawn up an amendment summarizing the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, and the amendments were then adopted by the Agriculture Committee. While on the Committee on Agriculture, the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture reiterated their view that the law in question deals primarily with animal protection and does not regulate the exercise of human rights and freedoms and their protection, which they could only attract if this issue was adequately addressed. However, because in our community they have blind and visually impaired problems in public places and means of public transport using a technical device, in this case a specially trained dog, which is also addressed by mandatory health insurance rules. And since, according to the representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in the very long-standing law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons, it is not envisaged to solve this problem there, we have decided in the House of Members of the Liberal Democracy that we will confirm the legislative change in the proposed form. A solution to the problem is more important to us than a violation of the principle of coherence of the rule of law than the whole. We will confirm the law in the proposed form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u110	Actually, there's nothing more important to add. However, I would like to convince one of the Members, who may be abstention or even opposition when voting. It should be stressed that the law will in fact have almost no financial implications, i.e. the burden of the state budget and the possible reallocation of resources, are hardly worth mentioning. On the other hand, the fact is that, in exchange for this, through politics, through the legislative branch of power, we are trying to establish some balance in that sense and, in the form that a certain segment of people in our society, which is unfortunately acting so far, may be representative of the local communities or representatives of different carriers, be pushed to this limit so that they are not able to carry out their primary and luxurious affairs. Our purpose, and I sincerely hope that the purpose of the National Assembly, is only to involve all those people who deserve it, who want it and who need it in society equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Mag. Janez Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group will support this bill. We regret, however, that we have failed, or that the government has failed to prepare a proposal for a law that will fully address this issue, i.e. the proposal for a law on the integration of persons with disabilities, because there could be a comprehensive solution to this issue. And we hope that this law, which has a good purpose, will be able to live, and that there will be no possible complications from inspection services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with this by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since there has been no discussion on the articles on the proposed amendments to the amended law, I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Friday 28.11.2003 following the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We'll start at 4:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u114	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second Commentary Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural and Agriculture Collection of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by Mr Aloise Sok for consideration. With regard to this law, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Rule 134 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the applicant for further explanation of the bill. Five minutes, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u115	Dear Presidents, fellow Members and fellow Members! I regret, of course, that the Committee on Agriculture has adopted such a decision that this law is not suitable for further consideration. It is the case that the Advisory Chamber Act was adopted in 1999 and that two decisions were issued by the Constitutional Court at that time. [[Today we have already talked about how many constitutional court decisions have not been implemented]] . The first decision concerned active electoral rights. Today, there are 172.000 members and several members of the agri-agricultural chamber, which are divided into 13 regional units, and there are significant differences between these regional units. The largest district unit Murska Sobota has over 26,000 members and the smallest Kočevje has a total of 1000 members and something. In each case, the same number of representatives are elected to the world of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber. The Constitutional Court has concluded that this provision is unconstitutional and that the National Assembly must remedy this error in law. As the elections in the agri-agricultural chamber - the elections were due to be held next year in March - it was appropriate for us in Novi Slovenija to point out as soon as possible that this provision should be corrected in the law. Since the Ministry of Agriculture - today the representatives are not here - obviously does not have any genuine intention of correcting this matter at the right time, then we have taken action and prepared a change ourselves. However, the second decision of the Constitutional Court refers to the level of the chamber’s contribution. The criteria for the contribution are now laid down in the law itself, namely the transitional provisions. In view of the fact that this is a public duty, the Constitutional Court stated in its decision that the criteria for the amount of the assembly contribution must be laid down in the law itself. At the same time, we have also pointed out the illogicality enshrined in the law, namely, in the law currently in force, it is stated that the members of the agri-agricultural chamber are all those owners of agricultural land and forests with annually more than 20,000 tolars of cadastral income. Furthermore, in the 43rd article of the transitional provisions, the law states that membership is paid at a rate of 3% of the cadastral income, so that the minimum contribution cannot be less than 2,000 tolars. If you recalculate it, you can see that those who have 20,000 tolars of cadastral income pay more than 3% of the membership fee to the chamber, which would pay 10% in this calculation. We have tried mathematically to settle this, so we have proposed a change in this direction, that a mandatory member of the agri-agricultural chamber is the owner of the agricultural land or the forest that has 66,666 cadastral income. This would result in a marriage of at least two thousand tolars. We are also asked how this agricultural chamber has more than 172 thousand members. On the other hand, we can see that about 65,000 agricultural beneficiaries are applying for subsidies. This also refers to the information published by the statistics that we have lost about tens of thousands of agricultural holdings in Slovenia over the past three years. Since we have already proposed these amendments, we have tried to regulate another area with this law, and this is the area of the tasks currently being carried out by the agri-agricultural chamber. Among other things, this Chamber performs control, production and selection tasks for domestic animals is called cattle, pigs and others. In view of the fact that it is still deciding at this time which breeding organisation will receive the status of recognised breeding organisation, we have proposed or propose that this task be deleted from the scope of the works and tasks of the agri-agricultural chamber and then allocated to those organisations which will receive the status of recognised breeding organisation. At the same time, the abolition of one of the important tasks in the Advisory and Agriculture Chamber would mean that the financial situation in the Chamber would improve slightly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u116	Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Mr Aloise Sok, New Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr President. So we are constantly faced with an extremely difficult financial situation in the area of the functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber. This is also demonstrated by the fact that, before the recent decision of the Constitutional Court, the Council of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber concluded and increased its statutory contribution from 3% to 4% in the law. That there are difficulties in the business itself in the agri-economic chamber can also be seen from the situation presented by the advisory service. In 1999, a consulting service was also transferred to the chamber, so today the agri-agricultural chamber employs about 900 co-workers, and this is of course a large company. Funding from the State budget is decreasing for the functioning of the agri-economic chamber from year to year and, of course, the decrease in these resources has led to the situation that this service is charging direct users more and more on the ground in the field of agriculture. This, of course, has to do with the fact that farmers as users of this service simply avoid doing so and that this service, which is very much at stake in our country, does not benefit to the extent that it should. In fact, this is one weakness prior to the entry into the European Union, because it is clear that this service will have one great function in the context of the European Union's work in the field of agriculture, and it would, of course, be necessary for this service to operate smoothly, to act as it was intended, but not to express disagreement with public protests from time to time. Such matters cannot, of course, be in the best interests of Slovenian agriculture. For this reason, we have simply thought and proposed that part of the tasks of the agri-agricultural chamber, i.e. those which are not compulsory and those which at present do not know or belong in the field of operation of the agri-agricultural chamber, be abolished. As I have already said, unfortunately, such a law, such an amendment to the law on the Committee on Agriculture has not been adopted. The Committee decided that the law was inappropriate for further consideration. In New Slovenia, however, we hope that now, on the basis of this experiment, which we have obviously done on the basis of the government's opinion and the legal services, we will only receive a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and that the second year of March or April elections to the agri-agricultural chamber will be held undisturbed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you. Bogomir the Grandchild, the client of the young, is gone. Mr. Vojko Cheligoy, Dessus.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u119	Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber was the subject of a constitutional court's assessment in the work concerning the issue of voters, members of the Council of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the determination of the criteria for the participation. In the DeSUS Group, we appreciate the proposal made by the proposer to try to remedy the shortcomings of the Constitutional Court's decision, as we are aware that there is a need for non-compliance with the Constitution. However, we believe that the proposal for a law does not deal satisfactorily with all the open issues that the law has. The agricultural and farm chambers are not a European category and in many countries of the European Union they do not know the organisation of farmers. Especially not forced forms of association. The mandatory membership of the Advisory and Agriculture Chamber seems unacceptable to us in the DeSUS Group. We also find ourselves under-thinking the lowest base of SIT 66,000 of cadastral income as a frontier forcing the owner of the land to be a mandatory member of the Chamber. Under the Constitution, association is free and voluntary. In the DeSUS Group, we respect the free will of each farmer, and we know that he can decide for himself whether membership in the Chamber is a good decision for him or not, whether or not he has sufficient credit or not to approach it. Nor did the Constitutional Court want to understand the initiative to ensure that the criteria for certain membership fees for all members are the same, in so far as membership must be compulsory and in this part we agree with the proposal for a law. However, we cannot go beyond the provision in Article 5, which provides that contributions from members should only finance certain tasks in general. Who's going to fund the rest of the assignments? If the Chamber and its compulsory membership are truly necessary, then it should also finance the bulk of the tasks. In addition, it seems that the proposal of the law has tried to introduce some conceptual changes, which in our view are not the most thoughtful, so in the DeSUS Group we will support the Committee's decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u121	President, respectable! The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will not support the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We fully support the proposalr's intention to eliminate in the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia all inconsistencies brought to the attention of the Constitutional Court with two decisions. We support the intention of the proposer, who, by means of the legislative proposal, wants to achieve a more equitable representation of the House's membership in the House's bodies and thus a more rational functioning of the Chamber. In order to ensure at least approximately equal representation and equal weight for each member, we support the proposal to select a different number of representatives from the regional units, given the number of constituencies. We note that the elections in the bodies of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia are at the front of the door and that it is essential to settle this disagreement as soon as possible. We also support the proposalr's intention to define in detail the functions of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which are financed by membership contributions. With regard to the proposed amendments and the determination of the level of the statutory contribution in relation to the mandatory membership, we believe that the proposed changes should be seen through the coming and immediate changes of the assembly system in general in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber, United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, chairman. At the time of the adoption of the law on the agri-agricultural chamber, in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, we drew attention to a number of inconsistencies. Today, we note that the Constitutional Court's decision has made these inconsistencies very clear and that the decision at the time was not sufficiently appropriate or was carried out in accordance with the current interests which were in force in the field of agricultural policy at the time. The fact is that today we are faced with the duality of both the ministry's functions and the functions of the agri-agricultural chamber and, in fact, we do not know exactly who is responsible for the implementation of the agricultural policy. In fact, the transfer of many tasks and competences to the agri-agricultural chamber has led to the extreme blurring of this transparency. If we look at the content of the proposed law, we could almost agree with all the comments and proposals that colleague Sok has written in this law, but these solutions follow that we should, in fact, end the agri-agricultural chamber, because with these measures and in this way, we could not, in fact, keep living to such an extent for the purpose for which it was set up. The establishment of the Chamber was mainly due to the protection of the interests of farmers in negotiations with the government and especially at a time when Slovenia was preparing to join the European Union and that the interests of agriculture would be best represented in these negotiations. It is only membership that proves that, in fact, farmers, both small and large, do not dominate agriculture, but it is the majority of those landowners, whose agricultural activity does not mean any other than recreation to fill free time and, last but not least, to preserve cultural landscapes in a settlement or in an area where someone has their own plot. This certainly has nothing to do with the implementation of agricultural policy. Finally, the data provided also show that 172,000 members, of which 65,000 applications for subsidies, have done so. So it's very difficult to talk about representing the interests of farmers, but it's a trust that wants to function, but we find it extremely difficult. A comprehensive amendment to this law should be prepared if we are to adjust the functioning of the agri-agricultural chamber. In particular, try to achieve the interests of farmers in this Chamber. And in the case of compulsory membership, we should also have a truly significant impact on the functioning of this chamber. We believe that, even at this moment, there is not enough decisive impact on specifically farmers. These solutions are so difficult, so big that this law does not actually offer them. If it had been adopted, it would have meant an irregular situation which would certainly have led to the fact that elections in this coming period would not have been possible to run for this chamber. And the greatest damage would be to the agricultural advisory service, which is crucial to the fact that certain information that is urgently needed for farmers does come to these farmers. Although we also find that it is not in an effective way enough. However, if we intervened in this way in this service, with these proposed changes, we would, of course, jeopardize this relatively modest level of agricultural advisory service that is now in office. We will therefore vote in favour of the Committee's decision at this stage, so we will not support further consideration of the law. It is, however, serious to note that in all the following laws, certain dilemmas should be removed, in particular because of the interest of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mrs Lidija Majnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u125	Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the decision of the Committee on Agriculture for Forestry and Food that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, submitted by its fellow Member, Alojz Sok, is not suitable for further consideration. In this decision, we were led mainly by the Government's negative opinion on the proposed law and the many comments made by our legislative and legal service. Since the competent Ministry of Agriculture has ensured that the government will submit its law as soon as possible, we have decided to review or amend all proposed articles, or to wait for the new text, for the latter. In doing so, we call on the Ministry to make its announcement this month, because the law is already in a great hurry. On 28 March 2004, three articles of the law will cease to apply following a decision by the Constitutional Court, thus preventing elections to the Council of Chambers and collecting a constituency contribution. With this, the Ministry also questions the chamber itself. As we say, we'll confirm the Committee's decision. However, we expect solutions as soon as possible, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u127	Presidents, honourable Members, Members. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia was established with the aim of protecting and representing the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. With a view to advising individuals and legal persons who manage all three of the activities referred to above. In March of this year, the Constitutional Court issued two decisions relating to the Law on the Agri-Agricultural Chamber. The decision to take effect in March 2004 concerns the repeal of the three articles, namely Article 13, paragraph 1, which refers to the composition and working area of the Chamber Council, Article 29, paragraph 1, which provides for the method of election of members of the Chamber Council and Article 35, paragraph 1, which provides for elections in the first election group. The second constitutional decision is a decision on the non-compliance of the law in the Aberrant Chamber with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the membership of the Chamber of the first indent, the first paragraph of Article 9, which provides for the composition of the first constituency, the second paragraph of Article 22, provides for the revenue of the Chamber, the third paragraph of Article 23, which provides for the contributions of the Chamber and the first indent of Article 43, which provides for the provisional rate of the assembly contributions. In the proposed law, the proposer indicated to a certain extent positive guidelines for the resolution of the functioning of the agri-economic chamber, but in the Slovenian National Party we assess that the proposed amendment to the law has not been taken into account and has included the full contents of both decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thus, this novel does not solve all the questions raised by the Constitutional Court. It would make sense to adopt a law covering all open issues. In addition, in the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the competent Ministry, is that State authority, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which should prepare the amendment of the law, taking into account the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Also the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Master Janez Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we want the constitutional decisions relating to this issue to be resolved in a comprehensive manner. We want the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, to prepare a law or to amend the law in accordance with those decisions. As far as we are aware, the government has prepared such a proposal for a law, so we will support the proposal for a decision proposed by the home committee in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. On the proposal for a decision by the home working body, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the votes, 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate on agenda item 7. I'm breaking this agenda. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you. Can it still be within the available time?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u132	Now, of course, there is no debate here because there are only presentations of the positions of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u134	In short, today, 15 minutes after the final debate, the 7th item of the agenda will be the vote on this agenda item. I'm breaking this agenda. We'll start at 4:45.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, welcome to all. We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A COLLECTIVE ADDITIONAL LAW FOR PUBLIC SERVICES The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Rado Bohince, Minister of the Interior, will provide us with an additional explanation of the bill. Have a nice hello and here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u136	Nice greetings, dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Vice President! Allow me a few notes under the law on supplementary collective pension insurance. You may recall that in July this year, we signed an annex to the collective agreement on non-agriculture and also an agreement on wage policy for 2004 and 2005. By means of this annex, unions, or employees, have waived payments of the already agreed August escalation to replace this escalation with an additional collective pension premium. The content of the annex is also the content of the main components of this supplementary collective pension scheme. This means that we have signed a declaration of compliance with all the articles of the law that are currently under consideration with the unions and with which we have signed 12 unions. It means that we have a law that is partnerly coordinated and, of course, because of its content, it has an important impact on the position of employees. Two issues were highlighted as critical in the transitional proceedings. The first question is the creation of one or more funds. The Government has decided to propose the establishment of one single fund, closed to one another, for a number of reasons. Firstly, it wants to provide a sufficiently large fund in terms of critical mass, which can take place not only in the domestic market but also in the European capital market. Secondly, we consider that rationality is an important argument for a single fund. Reduced costs at one time compared to the spread to a larger number of funds. Next time, we consider this to be an arrangement under which the fund manager will only have one fund and not fund assets. The fund will be managed by a large number of entities and we propose by law that the circle of entities expand to pension companies, banks, insurance companies and also to capital companies. We believe that this does not create a monopoly on this type of market. This is about 11 companies already entering this capital market, about 200,000 private sector employees are already involved in these forms of insurance. And it is precisely in the light of the regulation that we propose that a larger number of funds be managed by the assets of this fund, a larger number of entities, we consider that there will be competition among them and that no monopoly will be created or strengthened. We think it's important to stress that. The debates have repeatedly expressed the view that employees in the public sector are in some way privileged by this arrangement. The argument against this claim is that it is a purely specific asset, for the funds that are, in fact, from the pockets of employees in the public sector. They have renounced the August escalation and on this basis the Fund will be established. This not only reduced real wage growth, but also reduced their pension base in the long run, with benefits resulting from the law, some compensation for this decision on real salary reduction. I believe that the law is also an important part of the government's economic policy and wage policy in the public sector, to make an important contribution to resolving the issue of long-term social stability as well, and therefore I propose that, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, that this law be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Leopod Kremjar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you. As it is said, the Committee has considered the proposal for a law which has been submitted to it. Of course, other than the proposal for a legislative text, members received, as usual, the opinion of the State Council, a letter from the press union, a letter from the Slovenian Police and Service Union, a letter from the Ministry of the Interior. The applicant stressed that the proposed law was in line with the social partners and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by signing an annex to the collective agreement on non-economic activities, had undertaken to submit a proposal for a law regulating collective supplementary pension insurance as soon as possible. The discussion in which most members of the Committee participated highlighted the question of the circle of beneficiaries covered by the law. In the opinion of the members of the committee provided for in the law there is no clear assessment of the financial resources, it is not yet clear whether the 2004 budget for local communities has provided financial resources for the implementation of the law. The members of the committee also wondered how the law would apply to someone who was already 40 years old. The debate also took place in the direction or one or more of the mutual pension funds closed, as the creation of several funds in different Slovenian centres would satisfy the policy of coherent regional development. The government could thus provide different investment policies. Two amendments were proposed, namely the SDS Group of Members and the Mags. Janez Drobnič, who has not been supported by the Committee, has drafted and adopted his two amendments and is proposing such a bill with these amendments for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will be leading on the basis of the 24.11.2003 amendment review. In this review of the amendments tabled, we can see that we have only one amendment, so I am opening a debate on Article 5 of the amended bill and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this article. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. What do we think of marriage? We've said it the last time. Unfortunately, our voice does not reach the heart of the government and we find that something has not really changed. So we're stuck with what we said. However, we have tabled an amendment that, at least in one single single point, we would try to convince the majority that it would be good to, after all, create three instead of one fund in accordance with market law. A number of arguments speak against a single fund, often cited in particular by economists specialising in this area. Whenever a large amount of funds is concentrated in one fund, this increases the risk of possible wrong business decisions. Secondly, there is a possibility that - at least practice proves that such a possibility exists - a policy interferes with the operation of such a fund. For the Liberal Democracy and the ruling coalition have shown nicely over the past ten years how cities are filled in various funds, especially those where the state owns. Whenever a large fund is involved, this in itself means a great deal of the power of the fund’s managers. However, if those who manage such funds have great power, there will be a major problem when it comes to controlling the operation of the Fund. So on the one hand, the monopolistic position, on the other hand, the absence of effective control, all of this says in favour of more funds, not one. Whenever we talk about monopolies, we often also face the issue of quality. Those who have great power, a monopoly in any area, begin to behave irresponsibly. And quality is usually poorer, we continue to experience this in many areas, not especially in the list. Even in such a case, it is difficult to obtain adequate data on the operation of individual funds, and this also makes it impossible for us to compare funds. We expect that there will also be major difficulties in moving from one fund to another fund or third fund. I'm just wondering how this fund is going to work. A single fund with so many thousands of customers, given the problems faced by large business systems, say the Ljubljana Bank with Sigma. So that's how this information system is going to work. How will the organisational structure react to such a large number of customers? In contrast to one single fund, we can say, but the triegulations, as we suggest, of the three mutually closed pension funds, allow for first choice. Today, none of the future insurers in these pension funds will be able to make a decision other than a single single fund. This, in fact, violates one of the key rules of the game. People have the right to decide for themselves which fund they will invest in. If you have adjusted this right to them in some way at a time when they should increase their salaries and make up for this increase with a substitute, then you are now again taking the right to decide where they will invest their funds in another way. Several funds represent a greater dispersion of governance and thus a reduction of risk. And that also increases security for the insurance companies. This prevents the monopolization of one controller. I know you'll say there are more of these funds. But one of those strong funds is really problematic. What are we afraid of competition for? Why not also create competition in this area? Why not, for reasons of greater competitiveness, contribute to a better quality of services, and thus to the greater satisfaction of the insurer? And that probably creates the conditions for easier transitions between funds. Mr Minister mentioned a few reasons why there should be one fund. He said it was a critical mass. A lot of insurance means a lot of capital, a lot of power, the possibility of placement in European markets. He mentioned rationality, he mentioned many other reasons not to repeat everything. Then why are these reasons no longer valid after three years? Why, then, do we move to more funds after a few years if these reasons are so weighty? I would really like an answer to that question. It is hard to imagine that there would be a single fund in the beginning and have such an argument, and then this argument somehow does not hold up anymore. And I have one more question. It's actually a very unusual practice. In the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, on 14.11. we followed the invitation to make an offer and to present the management systems of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants in the Republic of Slovenia and the instructions for making an offer for the selection of the manager of the closed mutual fund. It is the fact that the selection commission of the manager of the closed mutual pension fund started by collecting offers, which I do not think is controversial. This is a rational act, because it means that the process would move faster, and I see nothing wrong with it. But something else is pure to me, so to speak, formal, yet surprising. In point 1.3, where the content of the offer is specified, I quote: "In the formulation of the offer the tenderer must take into account the ZPIZ-1, the proposal of the law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants", the rapporteur, this and this number. So, this one, ours, the rapporteur. Thus, a proposal for a law is acceptable in this process of collecting tenders. However, marriage can also change, and then things may become different in another light. What if a miracle were to occur in this environment and, for example, part of the ruling coalition would attract our proposals and this proposal would change considerably with the amendments. I do know that this cannot happen in this national assembly and in this state of spirit. But let's say. We need to look more at these things in principle. The proposal for a law cannot be the legal basis for a public invitation to take place because the law can be changed and then this paper is worthless. So I'm surprised at this rush, because of this moment, not because of what I said earlier. Because if the law were adopted and it was all prepared so that the procedure could be expedited, there would be nothing wrong with it. I also believe that the formal issue is not so highly controversial. But I'm just pointing out this point 1.3. So that I think that our proposal is not in any way contrary to the government's proposal, it opens nothing and is not revolutionary. With regard to the Government's response to the opinion of our legislative service, with comments to Article 5, in the last paragraph of this explanation, we are asked why we are not going to have 3 funds right now. Why do we have to wait for this for a while? This is certainly something that is very controversial and since the KAD has already been mentioned, I do not have an appropriate regulation at the time, but I do not think that where the country is the owner, it can also intervene, so it cannot be the controller at the same time. Something like that. And I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u141	Thank you very much. You have also made your statement to Mr Drobnič - Mr Kavčič, if you please, I would like to give the floor to the Minister, who wishes to answer Dr Brejc's question, because the government can also answer directly if it wants to. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Three questions Mr Brac asked. First question, about surveillance. The supervision is intended to deal with the collective agreement on the pension plan, in a way that both groups will sit in the fund management body, says government representatives and union representatives. In fact, it is not just government control, so we do not see the risk of bureaucracy and thus the inefficiency of this control. There will be short-circuit bilateral control. The following question was why after three years of funding and whether the reasons for the single fund could be eliminated. In particular, because a different investment policy or risk policy and a new choice will be available after three years of this date. We believe that some tradition, some knowledge, some behaviour is needed on how to choose different investment policies and that a three-year period is something to go on so that 40,000 civil servants can take advantage of a choice that will be made possible by the creation of a larger number of funds after three years of the day. We hesitated to give up the possibility already, as advocated by colleague Brejc, of a large number of funds. In the end, however, we have identified ourselves as a solution that is more traditional, more conventional, so to speak, to start with a single fund. I have also said many arguments myself, including the critical mass and the performance on the European market, to allow the possibility of creating new funds later. If experience shows - and I believe that people will gradually get used to it - more risk policies, more investment policies and more choice will have to be made available. That's the answer to another question. The third question is why we have included a proposal for a law in the invitation to tender. I agree with my colleague Brejc's argument that the non-adopted law cannot be the legal basis for the invitation to tender. However, it can be an information basis and this has been included in the invitation to tender, not as a legal provision, but simply as a support for a rule, as an information to which the government proposes that the system be created. In this sense, I do not think that the invitation to tender in this part can be disputed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u143	Thank you very much. In order - just allow before I give the floor to Mr Drobnič - you have applied for the word Mr Drobnič, Mr Kavčič, Mr Barovic, Mr Kebric and then Mr Vnučec. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that I support this decentralised approach, which is somehow submitted through the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment. The government once advocates one fund, another dispersion, this time centralisation. With centralisation and concentration, we have great problems in Slovenia because it undermines the real market conditions, so that I do not consider other institutions to control such financial institutions. Then there are major problems in the functioning, transparency of functioning, ensuring market conditions or market functioning. It's basically some kind of suspension. And this occurs in many areas. In any case, we see that Slovenia is suffering from these diseases and is approaching, as I have pointed out many times, some form of a corporate state with mandatory chambers and a union system, although the union system is only slightly better functioning. In centralisation you talk about good tradition and conservativeism, otherwise you use a different language. In this case, we are talking about suspension of market functioning, real market functioning. It is likely that it will have to be corrected because the law is not adequate, but the suspension was made at the beginning when employees were unable to decide whether to enter into this insurance scheme or to opt for, or increase. The government had the opportunity to harmonise with the social partners an appropriate approach. So that's all mandatory and there's no talk of voluntary or open mind, and now you're going to cement it with one fund. It's not worthy. These are things that make the law inappropriate, besides, of course, the key warnings we gave you. Payments to the healthcare system will be reduced, which will further make it difficult for the health treasury to operate. This means a further breakdown of the system and a reduction in the pensioner's income because it will not be counted in terms of wage growth. So another financial blow to the pensioners, because this will not be taken into account in the valorisation. There will also be problems with the premiums, as the premium limits are not in line with the parent law, the constitutional dispute is likely to follow and this fund may be demolished as well. In short, you've risked too much, Mr. Minister and Government, and you've gone through these laws. Not well, in short, there are many comments that have not been taken into account in the adoption process and that is why there are serious reasons why we are likely to meet with this law and we will have to correct it radically in order to be comparable to those in the regulated countries. No one's gonna benefit from such a fluke. That's unworthy. However, we will support the possible revision of Article 5 in the direction of dispersion to at least three funds. That would mean at least some choice. Because it's hard to believe that in time, you'll be reshaping the scheme. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much. It may be helpful to look at the basic purpose of this law in order to be informed about the dilemmas of how many funds. This is a very ambitious idea, which has its macro-economic implications in that it wants one part of the special benefits of a large number of employees, to shift around 140 thousand from immediate consumption to some form that is intended to serve the long-term social security of these insurers, in a specific case of a public sector employee. The real anti-inflation motive of this marriage is here very much ahead. On the other hand, it is an ambitious project, because it is a solution that will have to start operating in an extremely short time, without a shortage for a very large number of insurers, for about 140 000. The purpose of these investments in pension insurance is basically very far from speculative purpose. This is an investment that will have to be very transparent and particularly safe. Therefore, it is also necessary to examine the impact of this law on those factors or actors in the financial industry that have so far been trained in accordance with Slovenian legislation to provide services in this market - including pension companies and other financial market institutions. I agree with those who advocate the view that the solutions to this law should not have a strong negative impact on the operation of established economic operators in the Slovenian area. That is why I think it is necessary to be aware of the very structured way in which pension funds operate, which is already occurring in us and which can be analysed in financially more developed markets. Indeed, the business is largely structured in the management of the pension fund as such, in the design of the pension plan, in the management of the pension fund's assets and in the management of relations on the passive side of the fund. This means managing, managing relations with the insurers themselves. Of course, it is possible that all these complex functions are combined under one roof, guided by a single, monopolized and run stately. In the proposed case, I see such an approach, but, of course, in Slovenia at the initial moment, we will probably not be able to afford a structured approach as much as possible in substantially larger and stronger markets. I also personally see in this proposal the possibilities for immediate competition for the important work of the Fund in the area of asset management. I think that now successful actors in this area will be able to compete for asset management, on the basis of the very serious conditions set by the Republic of Slovenia. Personally, I would very much like to see that, at the outset, there may also be opportunities for competition for the operation of more passive actors. The government, when the proposer has decided here to make another solution, as I understand it, so that the relationship with the insurers themselves should be maintained in a uniform manner in the beginning. This, of course, brings with it certain potential insights, as well as certain advantages. We cannot imagine the difficulties in which we would fail if, at the initial stages of the operation of this fund, we put the insurers at risk of different quality of operations of the various fund managers. Thinking about regional dispersion can also at first sight be tempting, but imagine the situation that would arise if, say, the Coastal Pension Fund were to operate successfully and the Styrian Pension Fund would operate slightly worse. Who would then be able to explain to the insured the difference in the profitability of their long-term savings. Or if we took a different route, and we went to sectoral, sectoral distributions. I think it would be very difficult to answer these questions here, and it seems to me that the gradual introduction of competition through the individual segments of the operation of this pension fund is the path that can be taken, given that it has obviously been very difficult and complex to reach agreement with representative unions. And if we want to maintain this basic objective that has been achieved, this means shifting part of wages to pensions, then, of course, we need to collect such solutions that are able to operate immediately, reliably, fairly and transparently to all 140,000 insurers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Madam President. On 28 October, the first debate on the proposal for a law on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants was an interesting one, as was the case today. We have already, at least in the Slovenian National Party, raised a number of doubts and questions that are repeating this useful debate today. It's true, it's very questionable. One fund or more funds, several managers in one fund. Who would say the answer? Unfortunately, I must say what we said on October 28th before I really say about the amendment we are talking about. That's when we missed the point. When I asked some experts what the purpose of this law was, they told me that unfortunately it was not proportional to wages, to take into account only working hours, that it meant that two people who earned - one 100,000 and the other 300 thousand - would have the same basis after a certain working age. It is true that this law saves social life, but people estimate that it is wrong to do so. The marriage is in second place. In the Slovenian National Party, we assessed that it was necessary. Mr Kavčič also said some specific things. I still have to touch it. It is true that differences can arise in individual regions and should be justified as you said, but after all, in coming to the European Union it is a balanced, regional development and after a long debate and an assessment we have concluded in the Slovenian National Party that, if the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is adopted to the proposal for a law on collective, supplementary and pension insurance, then we will not oppose the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! Again, there are relatively few of us, and I hope that many are listening in their sent-in offices, because this matter is very difficult for us in the National Assembly and is working for us. And we're going to do another 700 grand or more if we count their family together. It is important that there is no more general debate, although there was a relationship at the time that 30 of us were against the law to be adopted and to go into further procedure and 37 were sorry for and we have a result ahead of us. Since we are at Article 5, it is essential to know the following: We still have some in mind, at the end of 1999, and at the beginning of January 1, 2000, when we adopted the pension reform and the law as it is. Now, however, there are many ways out of this law. I'm talking about the funds. At that time, it was established and thus stated in the basic law on pension and disability insurance that a pension plan and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs should be submitted, whether or not it thinks that the plan is not appropriate. At that time, the funds grew like mushrooms in the rain, and it is clear that they did not have the initial capital, since it had barely begun to invest. They lived on credit, they had huge costs, and there was a battle on the market, who would get more insurance. Now let's face facts! On one side, we have some information. [[I'm talking in round numbers.]] That first there were 18 such funds that were granted permission to set up. Then it quickly turned out that if you do not have at least 50 to 80,000 insured, the costs of ficus, secretary, director, computer, space and the like would be so high that they would be difficult to manage, for by law they would have to guarantee some basic contribution. Now what he wants to say is, we will take over one fund, after three years, those who are in line as insurers can make a different decision. This fund now has eight months to win premiums for 140,000 insured in April. It will be such basic capital - of course now everyone is struggling in a competitive way to collect this cream and to manage well for the benefit of three years - this is at least the hope of those who will be insured - and they want to have something out of it. In contrast to this centralism, the market economy, free competition, where everyone, if not already established a single fund, would fight to get their share of this big cake from 140,000 insurers. For eight months of premiums, we would all be fighting and looking for such competitive, marketable and lowest cost options, so that we could promise as much as possible that if we should - under this law we should not - this human right is taken away from us - we should decide what we would like to do, in which we could see our own perspective. I don't want to waste any more time, because at the 8th point, which is vital, whether this law will be passed or this law will fall, I will open my eyes to the blind with other arguments about the unconstitutionality of this law and this Article 8th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The Government's proposal to provide only one mutual pension fund for public servants is, of course, the biggest loss to younger employees or those to be included in this process. For according to the conservative policy foretold, those who are least involved in this process will be deprived of a higher supplementary pension, because they will be smaller. And if they cannot already choose between a higher salary or an additional pension insurance, at least they should choose between different funds, which will also vary according to the risk of investment. Because in the first year of economics, students are taught that more risky investments bring more returns. And those who have been involved for longer with the current proposal will be deprived of higher returns and, as I have said, will have lower supplementary pensions, and thus we will create pensioners who will have a lower standard of living. That is why, alone and even in our Group of Youth Parties, unless the amendment that is before us is adopted, I will not even confirm the whole bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Allow me to tell you the order of the debaters, Mr Brejc, Mr Anderlič, Mr Potrč. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much, again. The Minister's reply somehow did not convince me, nor did the arguments put forward for the single fund. In his reply, he said that, in fact, these three arguments were no longer so important, but that they were actually about creating a tradition. So in three years, a tradition is supposed to be created that would then allow people to find themselves in this new situation somehow easier. Certainly, this view of 140,000 public servants is actually offensive. Because, why would they receive some kind of paternalism, some of the minister's strong concerns that they will not make the wrong decision, because adults who may already be trading securities are adults if they are left with some of their wages and decide for themselves where to put something. Why now take that right from them? If you've already taken their salary, part of their salary, then at least leave them the right to decide for themselves. Why should they now limit this right to choose? I simply do not understand this and it does not go in the context of modern democratic society, but in the context of the Liberal Democracy and its political and economic orientation. What Mr Kavčič said is things that we cannot believe because the Liberal Democracy by definition works differently. For all ten years, we can watch you do something that is significantly different from what you are now saying. The real reason for having one fund is the strong concentration of capital and the ability to manage this extremely large amount of funds. Just that's the real reason, it's one big fund, one big resistance point that won't be monitored. I'm for three funds. I know in advance that at the top of these funds, any of them will be chosen, let it be in banks, insurance companies, what I know where your people are sitting. We're not talking about it, it's perfectly clear that it will be under your political influence, under your political influence. You've had all these positions in ten years. But it seems unreasonable to me that the liberal government is introducing something that is highly conservative, something similar to the law prohibiting alcohol use or what it is already called. This would have been imposed by some kind of rigid right-wing government, not a liberal government. And now Minister Keber will find that pork is also harmful to health, and he will ban pork. Then we can expect someone to find out that women aren't exactly made. But anyway, I would expect us to go some way of volunteering and trusting people, so that people can decide for themselves where to direct their money. And that now there will be a coastal one, Kraška, Styria or I don't know which area of business is going to be more or less successful. If it's possible to make a transition, it's easy to do that. In one way or another, when people invest money in some mutual funds and so forth, they become more or less involved in their decisions. This gradual introduction of competition is therefore more sand in the eyes of the public than the truth. I hope that the Minister will answer the question that I have raised at the end. Maybe I wasn't clear enough, so I apologize. And it is in this call, or how to say it, that under point 4 a capital company of pension and disability insurance is listed as a possible manager. It is called insurance companies, banks, pension companies and KAD. And now I'm wondering if the government can conclude a contract for the management of a closed mutual fund with KAD. I think this relationship is incompatible. I think it's a conflict of interest here, and I would suggest, if not another, that you at least consider it if you can't give me an answer right now. But I would like to warn you that there is a danger that something will be wrong here. I don't think there would be anything wrong with you going across from our amendment today and accepting it and allowing people to choose. Don't underestimate people. Give them the chance to decide for themselves. You will choose three of your funds to which you have your influence. Okay. Nothing new. People will be able to choose. I appeal to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u156	Given that the debate is only about the amendment to Article 5, regardless of what I think about the law itself, I must say that I am unhappy when we thus formulate Article 5. It is also supported by the committee and it is incomprehensible not to say what is actually being said here. You've been negotiating with the unions, you've been negotiating poorly, and in the end, we've got what we are. Let's make some pretty mistakes that you didn't negotiate with everyone and that all things don't hold up anyway. It is contrary to my belief that, years ago, if I passed a law in this National Assembly that introduced an industry in this area, so to speak, the creation of additional pension opportunities through funds that govern these things, that I must now, because I am the prisoner of an agreement between individuals who negotiated and unions on behalf of the government, enter into this same system of some foreign, something that is anti-marketable, anti-competitive and prevents freedom of choice. This is unacceptable to me as a liberal, as gentlemen on the right would say, and of course I can only respect this decision in one way or another. That the government is firmly behind the agreements and, after all, it will not come to what has been said here several times. That all trade unions in this sector will be involved in this, that they will truly be involved and that no lawsuits and other matters will occur. If that's not the case and there's no guarantee here, then I wonder if we're doing the right thing or not. I'm just committed to the deal. We have done these things several times in this way, both in terms of substance and in terms of market orientation and otherwise there is nothing to argue with this amendment. The defense of Article 5 is, at least as I understand it, not convincing. It really bothers us that we already have a tradition on the one hand or we are trying to introduce a tradition - now I have no accurate data as to how many citizens are already insured in these additional pension funds, but it is certain that we have not stimulated those who are not yet additionally insured to go to any of those 12 funds. Therefore, it is necessary to press and other unions will probably also be justified to press on the country and say, give us something more secure, because these twelve are probably under question if you don't trust them yet. And you close and say, after three years, when we see what happens, maybe we'll think about another one, two, three, five. It's kind of incomprehensible to me. And I say, when you make sure that this is really the only way out, given the union arrangements already made, then I can think differently. At this point, of course, I can't do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much. If I were as cynical as some of my colleagues were before me, I would say that I am almost moved by the great concern of Members of Parliament about how employees will decide on voluntary pension insurance. However, I must say that, as the proposed model appears to be capable of being set out for it, of course I do not believe that the great concern for dispersion in several funds is also not of certain economic interests and I do not mind. All I have to say is that this is going on in such big and principled words and there is a lot of discussion. I admit that I'm only answering because I'm going to tell you the information I have about the bill and believe it. One of them is that we have decided for the annex to the collective agreement on non-agriculture because the decision was at least in the government coalition - but I understand that even more - at this point in the national council, it is necessary to approach the policy of deindexation and that it is therefore necessary to ensure that, as one of the aggregates, wages that have an impact on the movements of many other aggregates are not increased and that we will approach it. That is why this decision has been taken. We have even amended the law so that the meetings can enforce this and adopt it. And that's when I didn't hear much of this debate. But later we were late, because we all know that it was not easy with the unions to reach an agreement first to pay the cancellation, because what is in hand is still better than what is for someone who has been coming to work for 40 years, for someone else maybe a little less, but not in the hands. It is in an account, otherwise with the guarantee that it will be positively rescinded, but many times also with bad experiences and uncertainty, or it will be true. And now we have come into a situation, such is my information that if these decisions are now made, but are made unanimously between the government and the unions, we do not accept that there is a great deal of question or possible in time, to implement this programme. If it is not, it can happen that we will be in the situation we were in before the decision on the cancellation of part of the salary was taken on 1 August. I don't want to get into this situation. And one more thing. There was a lot of, I'd say, promises and forecasts of what free decision-making means to invest in this or another fund. I agree that this freedom of choice is better. But I have to say that we had it, and I had it eight, ten years ago, when we were getting vouchers at work. Wherever he chooses, unless he goes in line to stand with 5 or 10 Slovenian companies, he would have made the same decision. He spent money just like I did in this case, because none of those funds we invested in had any effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please. Mr. Brace, I don't think Mr. Potsch mentioned you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, and disagreements aren't replicas, we know that. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. We have before us an amendment to mitigate this interesting move by the government to actually introduce voluntary supplementary pension insurance, which is not voluntary, but compulsory, compulsory supplementary pension insurance. Two questions arise. Why one malt and why it's forced. I think it would be a matter of procedure as to how this has happened, but it must be said that a number of unions are those who have not agreed to it and it is certainly for them to do so. The question is also whether, on behalf of all workers, including those who are not members of the union and even on behalf of all members, you will get a lower salary, but you will have to make additional pension insurance. These are things that are likely to have to be discussed by others, as has already been announced with regard to the inclusion of the Constitutional Court on these judgments. I'd like to touch why one fund. And here's the question why one. Certainly not all the explanations I have read and heard, if not here, but by the media, they do not convince us that this is the best solution. For surely this fund will not provide a greater return than a minimum yield will be provided. Definitely no greater return because there will be no competition. If we set up at least three funds, not only would we in some way support regional coverage or coherent regional development at this point, but we would also create some potential for competition to offer more than a statutory minimum yield. But it's not like that. Why? Because Article 8 also states that premiums belonging to public servants from 1 August of this year will only be paid in almost one year. This is the case until 30.4.2004. This means that by means of this measure, the government, due to its inefficiencies, is taking credit by staff members. Set a minimum yield in advance, after that interest you'll get, and in the end you won't get any cash, but you'll have some kind of pension card. I think it's kind of a very tasteless approach. And I'm very surprised the unions have agreed to this approach. It's probably still true, as Tito once said, that we have a wonderful "worker class" that consumes everything that this class cooks. Unseemly easier and a more correct solution would be if the government said we didn't have money for wages, but we'd give the vouchers. All right, let's give the pension cards, but let's let them invest voluntarily, anywhere, in any fund, mutual, pensionable that we have a few, five of them. Of course, the State could also set minimum profitability, but this would give some freedom, the possibility of competition and the possibility of increasing that return. But, of course, in such a case, the government should immediately start paying these bonuses, not only by delaying almost a year. Of course, if workers invested this money in a bank and tied up for one year, they would probably survive more than with this promised minimum yield. A little bit of correction and a little bit of freedom, or a more democratic approach, means our amendment, and I hope that the National Assembly will confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u162	Madam Vice-President, I reiterate that you do not know the rules of procedure which states in Article 70: Every debater has the right to reply to another debater's debate. [[replica]] , as far as this debate relates to its debate if it considers that its debate was misunderstood or misinterpreted. Since I was the only one who spoke today about certain things which Mr Potrč quoted in his performance, used and, of course, clearly indicated that this was my debate, it was quite clear, although he did not personally mention me that this was my debate and in this regard I wanted to replicate Mr Ptræ, and you refused me this right. So please, if I can get to this replica right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace, I listen very carefully to the debate. You weren't misunderstood, you weren't misunderstood. You don't have to fix it. Mr Potč presented his position, which is not necessarily the same as yours, but he did not see from his discussion that he interpreted your implementation in such a way that you should assess that he misunderstood you. Mr. Brace, calmly, you have plenty of time and you can discuss it at once, according to Mr. Rokavac.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u164	Now I find you're not listening. Not only do you not know the rules. Mr Potrč has specifically shaved on my debate and on our alleged concern, mentioning some of the accounts that we may have in connection with the dispersion into the funds. And it was perfectly clear that this was our amendment that I was presenting and that I was talking about. Please! In procedural cases [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u165	Mr. Brace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u166	you have also counted my time, which is also, of course, contrary to the rules of procedure, but it is not the first time. [[...]] And now I'm supposed to have the right to a replica. It'll be very short.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u167	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u168	So, Mr Potts, of course, we have no calculation here, because we have no impact on the funds you manage. And we don't express any paternalism and concern for 140,000 employees. We only claim that there is an important right to choose in this country. And I am very pleased that Mr Anderlič, the leader of the Group of Members, has made another very important argument that we have not yet made. This is - and this is about what you say - one fund would mean distrust of everyone else, which means, in all the other twelve or I don't know how many funds. This is very important. In short, we're not going to paternalism, as you go, say, you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u169	Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I must admit that I do not like the solution in Article 5 of the bill on collective supplementary pension insurance. The fact is that more or less the National Assembly is being set up, in view of the positions negotiated in the context of the social partnership between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Union, into the position of the prisoner - accept or be branded to work against the agreement in the framework of the social partnership. I believe that here, as Mr Anderlič, the prime minister, has already said, the government has fallen on its exam in the framework of negotiations with the unions. That's where I get the question. Because we know that there have also been different interpretations of some trade unions that still oppose this agreement today, how it will be possible to interpret and generally implement the proposal of this law or this social agreement in general. The fact is, there is something else very wrong here in this agreement or in Article 5 proposal. In fact, the proposaler gives the possibility to free up additional closed pension funds, mutual funds after three years, which is an additional dilemma and a question. The question of establishing a monopoly on the position of this fund, which is now being established, is also a matter for funds that can see the light of the world after three years. Thus, the fact is that this fund will have significantly better positions in order to be able to solidify itself on the capital market than funds that can be set up after three years under the provisions of Article 5 of the Act. The second question that I am also asked here is who were all involved in the agreements. We know that this law also engrosses local communities, congregations. We know that there are a lot of comments on this agreement - they have not been included, and they will still be tangulated by this law. The law will tange them primarily with the possibility of implementing municipal budgets already this year. That's the key problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 5 and the amendment to this article? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I don't tend to advertise matters that have financial implications, but in this case it is the public servants I was part of until I became a member of Parliament. However, I would like to express my opinion only with regard to the position expressed in support of this amendment by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the reasoned support from the point of view of a possible choice. Actually, I would call it a virtual choice. For it is simply that if one closed fund replaces the three, however, it is, at least as I have heard the proposed solutions for this, but it is not the individual who can decide which of the three funds could choose for himself. An individual would be, as part of a sector, either health or education or employment, but related to the decision of that group that belongs to him or as other options have been offered by regional principle. But, of course, first of all, I have to ask the original question. There's a lot to talk about monopoly, power. However, I think that in such a case we should think more about the security of investment and the protection of the interests of those who invest. However, by relying on the original proposed solution, which I believe is also justified in the fact that a consensus has been reached on the basis of a partnership agreement between the unions and the government. I do not think it is possible to overlook that this is a high degree of consensus if 15 unions of 17 have supported such a solution. Such a solution cannot be disputed because, in any case - but I have already said this in the beginning - it will be done by means of a representative office, which, in this case, the unions will be able to reach a final solution for their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment to this Article, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the 15-minute vote following the conclusion of the 7th item of the agenda. I hereby interrupt this item of the agenda and inform you that at 6.30 p.m. we will move on to the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting. Until then, I'm adjourning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u174	Dear Members, honourable Members! We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DELIVERY PROPOSAL OF THE STRANGE AND HUNTING LAW The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Anton Anderlic. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u175	We have examined in detail the comments and also some of the amendments made by many groups, individuals, the public concerned, including some institutions, including the government and some sources. It is obvious that this is such an important topic that it cannot be left to the owners of the earth, on the other hand, not to hunting ties and hunting societies, but not to all lovers' organisations that on the one hand advocate the prohibition of any kind of interference with nature, as of course others who wish to introduce some new forms, such as falconing and similar things into our society. After all these examinations and drafting of the amendments came to the namatic working body to the amendments that are the fruit, I could say that a common part of both those who wanted to change the law as well as those who wanted to keep some of the basic principles of the law and that we would be on the road when the game of state ownership, when the hunting rights of the country will be in place in the planning and planning of both landowners and representatives of local communities and other stakeholders who also participate in this planning through the forest agency. Of course, we have arranged to the best of our ability to do what many have bothered and tried to do. So we have arranged for compensation in the manner that is possible, on the one hand, direct compensation for damage on the ground under those rules that have already been in force in some way and will now be made available to those who will receive a new concession for individual fisheries, and on the other hand, that the country which receives certain money through the award of concessions, and that it will also be able to invest additionally in the forests - not only in the forests - also in nature, and also in addition, until now to some extent the investment for the repair of forest routes, for the "indemnity" of damaged goods or plants in nature. Once it is 40 and twice over 20 million when it comes to damage after wild animals or wild beasts, if I may say so, or protected species known in the Republic of Slovenia. So we think that what is now being prepared is a compromise. I am sorry that it is also because we have practically recast the law in the second reading at the Committee meeting, that some amendments that we have tabled ourselves and some that have been tabled by interested Members and Members who have a different view of regulating this issue. I am confident that, through this debate on the amendments, we will be able to improve the law to the extent that it is acceptable to the general public. For those of us who want to preserve the diversity of nature, including the possibility of removing those kinds of animals that are too many in nature or are in some way sick, damaged or whatever, and that together we are planning these things, even in a way that some may, as someone would say, have a hobby, entertainment, as well as extra care in their free time. I am confident that in our second reading today we will adopt a quality law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I'm asking the chairman of the committee, mags. Janez Kramberger to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Friends and colleagues, hello! It is also a pleasant greeting to the many representatives of the Green Brotherhood who have come to this solemn moment for hunting. Some say it's a solemn moment, others say it's a hunting funeral - whatever we take. I would like to present briefly the work done by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is the parent committee for such a problem. At the meeting on 13 November, we discussed this proposal for a law, and a large number of people from different societies, hunting families, in short, all those who have any connection with hunting, were invited to this meeting and had the opportunity to give their reasons for or against them. We also took note of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We then also took note of the written comments of the State Council, as well as the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I must say that the committee sat for seven hours and prepared a law for second reading. I also say that it is likely that this law will somehow fall into the history of our parliamentary democracy. In fact, 132 amendments were tabled in 87 articles of the bill. The amended proposal was based on 132 amendments and today we have received or today we will deal with an additional 50 amendments to the amended bill. And finally, the report of the working body prepared by our services on the committee covers 60 pages. So, a lot of work has been done, and today we're just going to deal with these amendments. I would thus conclude this report, and I hope that the law would be adopted in the same way as the proposalr's representative said: one that would somehow be in everyone's pleasure. I'm afraid, or I'm not sure we're gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups, but we are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of a review of the amendments of 24.11. 2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the two amendments. To this article, the proposed amendment under 1 shall be the New Slovenia parliamentary group and also the amendment under order number 2. Anybody want a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Obviously, I will be the first member to sign up for this debate. As you can see, there are a large number of amendments in the second reading. This shows, of course, that the law is not just as ready as Mr Anderlič said, which he has expressed here as an entourage of some position, that the law is prepared in this direction, as many of the applicants wanted to supplement it. Of course not. In this law, the basics remain the same as in the first reading. After all, this is also proved by the letter of the government we received today at the table. The exact same content was written for the first reading only that they changed the date. So today we have something written for the first reading on 25.11., which of course indicates the attitude of this government to such an important law as the law on hunting. Otherwise, the basic definitions in the law remain the same as they were. The game is state property, and according to the principle of ethics, the state has declared something of its property, which is not actually its property; but so you have decided, and in this regard, of course, you have also determined that it is the State which grants hunting rights. This amendment, which we propose, is written in this direction that hunting rights can also be granted to natural persons if they meet the conditions under this law, of course. We have always advocated this, even when it was clear that you would not agree to any different diction in this law, we still hope that this status of the granting of hunting rights from a legal person will also extend to a natural person. This law has completely bypassed the owners of agricultural land and forests, and for this reason, on behalf of New Slovenia, I say once again that the law is not good. It's a bad marriage. We are going to adopt a very bad marriage, but obviously nothing can be done about it in this national assembly at this time. You continue to insist that the smallest hunting ground is 2,000 hectares, that the State grants concessional rights, that those who receive this concession right will have to pay for some kind of fund. However, the criteria for the allocation of funds under this Fund will be laid down by the Under-Law of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. It's also the only real function you've assigned to the department of the department in this law. Everything else has been taken away from this Ministry: from setting up management areas, to fixing aeroplanes, it is said that this is somehow on a proposal from the Ministry after the new government, and the Ministry of Agriculture remains that, I would say, a thankless job to take care of settlement of damage and to worry about how to recover some of the funds from this fund from potential beneficiaries. These are, of course, very bad solutions, which will in practice constitute many complications, many conflicts with this law. I hope to say that, at the end of the day, even the many hunters who have joined us here today will not be pleased with him, but even less the owners of agricultural land and forests who have expected to expect someone else, someone smarter, to say a wiser decision than today. The fact that this decision is not the right decision also proves that the government is in fact very little or nothing to interfere with this matter and somehow leaves this ruling coalition of Members in its own right. I ask that you at least support this amendment and that we give this opportunity, under the terms of this law, that the government may grant concessional rights to natural persons if, of course, they are properly organised on the basis of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u181	It is certainly not acceptable to suspend property rights in this way. Of course, we also do not advocate that property rights be without limitation, but, in a way such as not allowing them to set, to an appropriate extent, hunting rights are not worthy. It is already our amendment of such nature that the following Article 8 also provides for some proportionality and consistency. See also then, the following provisions regarding decommissioning are violent. This is not the right way to handle matters relating to hunting. Such a person must be opposed for principled reasons. We have therefore prepared an amendment that takes into account this minimum standard of owners, the minimum participation in hunting rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I would like to say that the basic principle of this law is to determine who owns the game. And hunting rights are the rights of game owners. According to the Environmental Protection Act, since 1993 the Republic of Slovenia has owned wild game and is therefore also subject to hunting rights. This category is not and cannot be linked to land ownership. When we talk so much about landowners, I would like to say that in Slovenia we have between 350 and 450,000 owners with an average forest estate of 2.3 hectares. These are extremely small owners. And that owners are involved in decision-making on forest management plans, it is very clear in this law. Their association, the association of owners, is under the law of the agri-agricultural chamber, whose members are compulsory all owners of agricultural land. So the owners, without at least being included to a minimum, are included. The owners are also members of hunting families, at least according to the hunting union, a large number of farmers are members of hunting families. However, they are members of hunting families in the territory where they live. So they would be cut off from what their colleagues are reading, absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Well, I would like to add the following, but Article 3 speaks of hunting as an activity of permanent wildlife management. There are some experiences in neighbouring Croatia that we can already pay attention to, and we can see that it is not good to make things too simple, because, above all, sustainable management can lead to extreme situations where the balance in nature breaks. Therefore, it seems to me that the preservation of some tradition in the Slovenian space in hunting is of paramount importance. It is particularly important that organisation also adapts to the new situation, and I think this new situation is well taken into account in this law, even in this sense, by making a comparison with the original text that was written at the beginning of this law and today. In fact, the relationship between owners and operators of hunting activities is substantially better regulated in this text and is primarily better regulated due to compensation. So that the legislation and all the solutions that are essentially the result of this are, in my opinion, well taken into account. And the fund that is envisaged for the collection of compensation funds is one that will certainly also create a balance in nature, if we say so, between the hunt and the owners. And with this, I think the essence of this article has also been achieved. And if we also wrote "natural persons," of course, that would mean a radical change in the whole law. That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u187	I would just like to add to Mr Weber that the issue of compensation in this law has been resolved elegantly in such a way that it will be regulated in a sub-legislative act. That is, of course, I would say a well-established practice, when a matter that should be written in the law, you don't know whether or not you can write in the law, then you suggest that it solves the underlaw. Once again, Slovenia will deviate from comparable solutions in the countries of the European Union that are around us in this law in the way you want to enforce it. I don't know why you mention some of them, but in all countries the solution is such that hunting rights are linked to property rights. This law represents a conflict of interest. I don't know when you can understand this, but this is the law. On the one hand, there are hunting organisations that manage fishing and, on the other hand, they are owners of agricultural land and forests with ownership. And this relationship between operators and owners in this law is not adequately resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 3 and both amendments. I ask, who wants to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this article? [[Nobody.]] I ask, who wants to discuss Article 5 and the amendment of the same motions for this Article? [[No one, either.]] That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment for the new Article 5a is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is therefore irrelevant. I am opening the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the three amendments to this Article. The amendment proposed under number 1 is the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the amendment under number 2 is the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the same parliamentary group proposes an amendment under order number 3. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Since we are talking about hunting for a special purpose in Article 7, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that this country is only setting up on its own land on its own property. However, if this catch is to be established on the private property of the owners of agricultural land and forests, the State must obtain the consent of those owners of land and forests, because there is a different status, a different treatment of fisheries management. Indeed, it is also one of those articles that will be able to obtain an epilogue in the Constitutional Court if it is not properly resolved. It's a matter of respect for property. If this property is restricted, the necessary consent must be obtained. And Article 7, whatever it is written, is written in such a way that these special-purpose fisheries are established in a manner similar to that of all other fisheries. Nothing else. And look what the key problem is. The key problem has already been several times in terms of damage over the period. Most of the issues were damage, mainly on hunting grounds with special purpose status. And that's the question. The owner must give his consent if the State wishes to carry out specific tasks on his land - or at least establish a specific procedure whereby those owners can be informed that a specific activity of the hunting grounds will take place on their land. That's not what Article 7 says. We do not claim that the amendments for the first and third paragraphs are the best, but they provide guidance and the possibility that in the procedure until the third reading they would only follow this basic principle. And I expect that only so much wisdom in this assembly, that this amendment will be adopted and then, in the subsequent procedure, there will be an appropriate solution and also allow landowners to be able to face, if the strong interest of the State is expressed, that they will also establish special-purpose fisheries on their land, and that in this way they will also receive certain compensation for the reduced possibility of operating on that land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to say that we have proposed the deletion of Article 7, which is our complement in this regard. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular our position on the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting, which is fundamentally contrary to what is written in Article 7. We fully agree that wild game is a state property, that hunting rights belong to the Republic of Slovenia, that hunting rights owners of land apply and enforce united in hunting families, priority being given to those hunting families where they are the most members of landowners and hunters, with permanent residence in the hunting area. That the minimum fishing area consists of at least 2,000 hectares in general and that it is managed largely, by wildlife on large surfaces. In any event, however, this concept does not continue to preserve and establish new hunting grounds with a specific purpose, as the applicant wrote, "with the aim of maintaining and maintaining the natural habitats of wild animals". That's where the problem comes in. In our deep conviction, the establishment of special hunting grounds and the further implementation of special hunting grounds is a very sophisticated, emerging form of limiting the possibility of hunting participation for all inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. In the area of special hunting grounds we have hunting families, we have hunters who cannot enforce their hunting activities. On the other hand, there is a need to establish specific hunting grounds, which the Government on the other hand simply sets out by decree, a kind of reflection of the government's mistrust in order to prevent fishing families from being able to manage properly with the specific characteristics of the specific hunting grounds. I would like to stress in particular that the hunters have proved and demonstrated that they are qualified to carry out their tasks, and there is no particular reason for them not to be able to manage the so-called special fisheries as well. The specificity of this hunting ground, which, according to our concept, should also be given to the management of the hunting family, could be written in hunting and breeding plans that are being adopted. In particular, this is the solution that we agree with, in cooperation with the agri-agricultural chamber and the local community. These special fisheries are all overboard from this system; they limit the right of hunting to a wide range of habitats, a wide range of hunters from a wide range of backgrounds. Finally, what is most essential in the area of specific hunting grounds is that they restrict the owners of these agricultural lands and forests in order to exercise their hunting rights through the hunting family that would have obtained a concession in this area of the so-called special fishing area. We have beautifully written in the law that the owner of the land, which has more than 15 hectares of agricultural land or forests, has the preferred right to join the hunting family without special admission and so on. Look, I am sure that the continued application of specific hunting grounds will be the generator of all the contradictions that will arise here, which ultimately also stem from the ownership of agricultural land and forests. If, in the area of specific hunting grounds, we do not allow the owners of agricultural land and forests to fish - I stress once again, in the context of the hunting family, on the basis of the concession granted - this will be a reason to challenge the constitutional requirement of the adopted hunting law. Finally, I would like to re-emphasize. From this proposal, I think that hunters could imagine themselves here because they are put in a deprived position as hunters. Gentlemen of the Hunting Association, you have been informed that you are unable to manage hunting grounds where special requirements exist. I think we should actually think about it. I believe that in the hunting relationship of Slovenia, there is so much knowledge and expertise in hunting families that you can also manage areas where they are today and where special fishing sites are intended to be established, so that you can manage these areas as you manage all the fishing areas and you will continue to operate in the whole of Slovenia. This Article 7 creates a conflict which will be very difficult to bridge and which will ultimately cause the vast majority of the 22,000 hunters in the Republic of Slovenia to be prevented from engaging in hunting as a result of these conflicts. Look, you know what it means for a hunter to carry out a disciplinary sanction when, for a year or two, he has a prohibited hunting operation, he is banned from firing. As a result of this conflict that will emerge, I am confident that, by implementing Article 7 of the Hunting Act, a wide range of hunters will be prevented from engaging in uninterrupted hunting activities. As a result, a stable way of managing the game in the Republic of Slovenia will be thwarted, which we find to be one that is based on the country's hunting right, that it is good in the form of awarded concessions. I suggest that you consider this matter, and our support, the support of the Slovenian Democratic Party to this proposal depends in particular on the resolution of the dilemma associated with the continued existence of fishing grounds of the specific importance of the State's fisheries. I am convinced that the possibility of amending the law is that anything relating to specific fisheries will be deleted from this proposal and that areas where special fishing is today also granted in the form of concessions to interested hunting families who know and are able to do all the professional work will, on the basis of the specificities to be included in the hunting plans, play the role, at least the role, if not more than today's special fisheries.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u193	This Article of the Law must be read in conjunction with the articles governing the further status of fishing for special purpose in the transitional provisions. We have not been in a situation where we can answer all the questions that have arisen in the context of the treatment of hunting grounds with special purpose. On the one hand, it is undeniable that these fisheries have been created in certain circumstances, when it actually wanted to protect certain species of animals on the one hand, and we also have today a case where protected species of animals live mainly in certain areas and, of course, these species have also been created with special purpose after, say, the inspiration of the current authorities. Because this is related to the conservation of nature and some animal species that could also be threatened in the future, because in some of these breeding hunting grounds there is a habitat that is obviously so special and so valuable in international conditions that it is worth preserving in some way for the future. We are certainly not proposing that these are sacred cows and untouchable things. On the contrary. We have charged this to the government that within 6 months it will inspect any hunting ground with such status and whether it changes borders - and I am sure that it is at least a few hunting grounds that have an excessive number of hectares in their range if you want, Kozorog, if you want, some other. But of course I'm skeptical, but in Triglav National Park it shouldn't actually be with some special status, with a special regime. It's also about employees, it's about property, it's about certain special regimes. We want the government to be, through the forest institutions and through those joint bodies that will determine the conditions of management, that is, these nature-friendly or some plans that will actually produce some joint work, some common estimates that eventually the results will be such that some hunting ground will be eliminated, that some will be reduced, I don't know, maybe even increased. I'm going to be alone, because I've got so many questions about how it's going to be, at least in the meantime, when I have this option, I'm going to be staring at the fact that it's going to be done in the meantime. Therefore, these six months are not set by chance, but it is set out to do so in this mandate and that what has been said here, as expressed at the meeting of the Committee, is also to be realized. We wouldn't want to do any harm by putting an end to a certain matter. Therefore, we leave it to the professional institutions to prepare it, to change it, to end it. This may, in fact, be a norm that allows the State to find that if it finds somewhere, it will eliminate everything on the one hand and, on the other hand, a new one if there are such needs. I have said several times that I have some relation to nature, I am not a hunter, I don't like guns, I don't like shooting bad flying pheasants and the like, those from breeding hunting grounds, and it seems to me that there is a type of thing that should probably be removed, even where there is no sonic hunting tourism, as some call it, with nature, owners, with the needs of such hunting grounds, so breeding, if you want, preserving special species and so on. This is a thing I don't want to go into and I don't want to go into. I have discussed with many, from the Institute for Forests to the hunting union, to some other experts, animal lovers, societies and so on, and of course not me, nor those who worked on this law, have found solutions that at this moment would preserve this concern and this wealth, which, according to many beliefs in our forests and also in some hunting grounds with special purpose, is. Of course, we want to preserve and care for this nature, for the way it is, to improve it. This is what I hear and read as an echo from other countries, including from representatives of institutions dealing with similar things. Therefore, I think that understanding this Article in relation to the transitional provisions would make it easier to understand what we wanted to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives. First of all, if the law is so written, there is an article that can only be understood with transitional provisions, is a bad law and is a bad article. It's been a long time, and I don't know what parts to make the law transparent. Nevertheless, this article is transparently written. This article shows the spirit of this law, the spirit of those who wrote it, who did not think of 20,000 hunters, but thought of 2,000 members of hunting aristocracy who would have everything in their hands in the future. If, in this article, you have not been able to respect any opinion of landowners in hunting for a particular purpose, because it is fisheries that have an economic purpose in the first place, although you are hiding here for a great deal for natural protection reasons. I'm sure in this country, over the centuries and millenniums, they've been the best naturalists of farmers and will stay if you don't get rid of them. And it seems from this law that you want to eliminate a farmer as landowner and that the branches of this law are such a spirit, it does not surprise me. Here I heard about the kulours, and the last time on the agriculture committee, I was convinced that he was supposedly the chief writer and legal adviser of the hunting union, and there he was also sitting, former Judge Šubic. Known for not having filed a complaint in Elan's case for eight months that the case had expired. This shows the attitude towards the property of the one he kept, created, made - no rights, no rights for the owner, one who did not use his property for luxury purposes. Tell me a few farmers who use their land for luxury purposes, tell me some farmers. I'm a farmer, and I live in the country, I don't know. And even if you consider that there is no need for at least the consent of that owner, and that at least a fraction of the specific burden of this land that someone is exploiting for economic purposes, if there is no need for the consent of the landowner in this matter, then this matter is so crystal clear that the interests of the new feudal class are actually here. 20,000 hunters in Slovenia are, in my opinion, racers for hunting aristocracy. I hope the hunters are aware of this, unless it's the ones with the medals that belong more to this layer. I don't think they came here interested in listening, but just as unilaterally as you're trying to behave, I don't think they'll be able to behave forever. They are around the world because they have changed in Croatia, because I hope something will change in Slovenia as well. But you're aware of your political power right now. You want samples that are not normal in Slovenia to be introduced, octrominated by law. For it was said here that you did not allow the law to be prepared by the district of the government, which according to the government law is provided for and determined and is in charge of the professional preparation of such a law. That wasn't allowed, but you were croaking with an ultimatum, as was said.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u196	Mr Jerivšek, please, I warn you. Please, take it easy on Article 7 and the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u197	And I, if not the other, hope that the vast majority of the hunters who want to live in harmony with the population that inhabits the hunting grounds, I believe 90% of them want to live, and 90% of the hunters don't want to be arrogant. It is not and does not want to be violent to the environment in which they hunt - such are the average hunters - that most hunters will eventually show. In the field, it's said that this law means hunting war. Here it was also said that owners can hunt on their land as members - I don't know, I'm not a hunter, and I'm never going to shoot, I've got guns in my hand for hunting; but I know that on the agriculture committee there's a farmer who says he's a hunter, he denies that he can hunt on his mountain farm, a few hundred hectares, but that he has to go through Savinja, I don't know how far to hunt if he wants to hunt like a hunter and a farmer. It would be good and it has been the last time that the hunting law was written by people who have some relation to the vital interests of the Slovenian countryside. We do not observe this relationship through this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. In order of course, you have agreed to the following words: Mr Sok, Mr Weber, Mr Ašić, Mr Čebulj, Mr Merlo. I very much ask that we truly remain with Article 7 and the amendments to this Article. We're talking about hunting for a special purpose. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u199	Because Madam President, this article touches on the concept of law. And I think that's what we're talking about. And the way Article 7 is written, it can't be any different. He was conceived into this law. And let me say it again. So this law is based on the regulatory principle of access to hunting and hunting rights. It's a system that's typical of kingdoms that's out of date. They don't use it anymore. The democratic countries use this, and the proponents have also studied it well and have also written for reasons, a dominant system that is bound to property rights, but this does not mean that agricultural owners would now exercise hunting rights, of course not. They would not have invented any "hot water" if the law gave them the opportunity to unite in municipal hunting grounds and that municipalities have their function both in planning and in awarding concessions and in participating in this concession, then in return for damage and how it is shared in the context of returning to the owners of agricultural land. Nor does anyone imagine, as it is, I don't know, the last time one of the LDS members calculated that every owner would get so many tolars because the wildlings, the deer, came upon his land. No, no, no, no, no! These are not European solutions, because we know how these solutions come about. And the hunters will also find that this centralisation, which you have carried out by this law, does not lead anywhere, because it will be squeezed, on the one hand the country will observe and on the other hand will have owners of agricultural land against them, so we speak. That's what we're talking about. But you're trying to centralize everything in this country. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u200	Mr. Sok, I'm sorry to interrupt. We discussed the concept of the law in the context of the first reading of the bill. There was a concept adopted, now we are in second reading. We can talk about the article and the amendments to this article. In this article, we are talking about fishing with special [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u201	Madam President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u202	with special purpose. [[...]] I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u203	You have this function. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u204	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u205	to interrupt the opposition's MP regularly, to listen somehow [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u206	That's not true. Mr. Sok, I disagree with you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u207	to listen to the debate [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u208	I remind you, and I ask you to proceed to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u209	It is best if you eliminate the opposition, and then you will end up with this law in a few minutes, just like you did on the Agriculture Committee. I'm talking about the concept of the law. And there are special hunting grounds, conceived in accordance with how the law has regulated this matter, I am talking about it. Then I won't be answering. And if I come up with what's being proposed right now, I don't think it's possible to delete Article 7. It cannot be deleted because we have these special hunting grounds because we have employees there, which would mean that we would suddenly lose this status of employment, that these special hunting grounds have their role in protecting certain animal species. However, the State of Special Hunting without the consent of the owners of the law and also regulates those areas which are not its own, and this is not acceptable. That is to say, then at least accept Mr Rokavac's amendment as acceptable, that the State may regulate special fisheries on what is itss, but on what is not itss, it must have some consent of the owner; the owner must participate in this matter in some way. Madam President, this is what we've been telling you all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u210	Thank you very much. A very good debate under Article 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you so much for your commendation. I'm so glad you're commenting on these things. So we will certainly support this amendment, and we also tend to do so if we do not resolve these matters within the framework of the law in a way that is in neighbouring democratic countries, then, of course, we cannot support such a law even because of constitutional dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Well, my view is that it is precisely in the fisheries of a special purpose that the most challenging task is how this matter could be handled differently or if we follow these discussions in order to arrange for the removal of fishing for a specific purpose, as proposed in the SDS amendment. Of course, here we must face the fact that it is a whole range of assets that are already in these hunting grounds and that it is, after all, also jobs that are also in these hunting grounds. So this solution is not so simple and is probably even more difficult than the other borders, which could change or change if the government so decides on a proposal from the Ministry. However, I note this problem, which is present. The important thing about this law is, I think it is very good for the financing of fishing for a particular purpose, which is the solution that solves the problems mainly in those fishing areas that have already been in the management of the forest institution of the Republic of Slovenia since we know that this institution in general is faced with extremely large financial problems and these problems have also been reflected within these hunting grounds and have tried, after all, to reduce the number of employees, and probably also the effectiveness of working in specific fishing areas, which certainly have additional tasks and more difficult tasks than those of the hunting families. Therefore, it is very important for the efficient and well-functioning of such hunting grounds, as I have said, to determine how to finance, and this is relatively well established. Which means that this activity can be carried out primarily in a sufficiently professional manner and that there will be no unnecessary commercialisation that could cause the collapse, I would say the balance within these hunting grounds. For the purpose of these hunting grounds is to maintain to the greatest extent possible some kind of balance in nature. Of course, we would all like to see as much as possible, including the revenues generated in all these hunting grounds remain exactly in the area where such hunting is. And it seems to me that this solution is specifically addressed in the fisheries in a way that the real revenues are returned to the fullest extent possible right back to such hunting grounds, either for the maintenance of this property, either for personal income or for the salaries of employees and, of course, for the survival of families living in this space, not least. The space they control, however, is usually outside of the settled settlements, so it is areas that would otherwise be without human beings in nature if only savages and natures, who would watch over and implement the programme in these areas, would, of course, be left empty and left alone as such. However, I think that an integral part of human nature is and it is right that he tries to exercise his mission also by his presence in these special hunting grounds. Open the dilemmas, which certainly exist in whether the scope of these hunting grounds is cemented or possible, I will also say that I will listen to the fact that, above all, it is possible to establish new hunting families that have once been in these areas. We know the efforts, as well as the initiative committee of the Kočevska Reka, which want to establish the hunting family Kočevska Reka. This is certainly one of the issues that the ministry and government will have to resolve after the enactment of this law and try to come up with a solution that would be variable, in fact, for the place where these fisheries are located or for the specific location of this hunting ground. I think that this interest is certainly to be reconciled in a way that also eliminates these inconsistencies that exist at this moment - even in this particular case. In my view, the intervention can be manageable, but of course it is necessary to prepare all the relevant professional bases that are also provided for in this law in order to prepare themselves. I believe that, in cooperation with the ministries responsible for the protection of nature, then with the ministries, the competent savages and hunting organisations and, of course, with local communities, it is possible to agree on the appropriate solutions that will bring about the compromise that we are all looking for in some way always in solving questions that have not yet been answered. I therefore believe that this law is the basis for solving these problems in practice as much as possible. And, of course, I believe that Article 7 in this law must remain, especially due to extremely difficult problems arising from the resolution of assets and, last but not least, employees in these hunting grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you very much. When I heard the reasons why it would be necessary to delete Article 7 or to supplement it by requiring the owner's consent in order to establish a particular fishing area, I cannot, in fact, go beyond the fact that the authors of these two proposals have actually said what is not true and what is written in this law, and this is already clear enough in Articles 2 and 6. In other words, Article 2 defines what is a hunting zone divided into fisheries and specific fisheries. Article 6 provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall establish a hunting and hunting area - that is, a hunting and hunting area with special purpose, on the basis of the professional grounds prepared by the institution in cooperation with hunting and nature conservation organisations, hunting families and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia. If I am not mistaken, we have heard several times in this Chamber that the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia is the official legitimate representative of the owners of agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia. This claim is also, of course, based on the law establishing the Chamber and the mandatory membership of the owners of agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia in this Chamber. It's a cover-up. Of course, the proposal of the SLS Group is a little more drastic, as it also speaks of the agreement of that holder of 0.3 hectares of forest or half a hectare of forest, which is part of this special proposal for special hunting or hunting for specific purposes, which must give consent. This is probably a little too severe if we follow the intentions of the law in the sense that we adopt the law in order to manage the hunts in the best possible way. For this reason, I believe that Article 7 of the law in the proposed text is good enough, and in conjunction with Articles 2 and 6 it is also sufficiently secure that the problems and reasons discussed by some discussers cannot be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Look, if you'll understand me correctly, I'm coming from an area where we now have national hunting grounds. And so that there is no misunderstanding by any chance, I will try to present briefly what the definition of "special hunting grounds" means for our area. My personal opinion is that the proposaler has only redirected the so-called so-called legal definition of "State hunting" through this special hunting practice. As I would be so strongly opposed to the adoption of these two amendments, which have been tabled by the SLS and SDS Group of Members, I fear that Article 7 which states that hunting for special purposes would not be transformed into a hunting ground for special purposes. The proposal also mentioned earlier that there was a political will in the old legislation. And with these special hunting grounds or special purposes, the political will of the proposer, or most of those who also advocate, is being re-enacted. Take a look, given that Mr Ajšć mentioned a social property earlier, let me say that in Article 81 it is also definitely written: the ownership of social property. 81st and 82nd, and there is absolutely nothing, Mr Ašič, in view of its implementation, which is the only thing that has been established by this rule, we have this in the law, which we call the European law, where Slovenia goes in 2005 to Europe. But with this law and with these articles submitted by the proposer, we are leaving Europe. In view of the fact that the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups that wish to enforce as property rights, and in particular the fact that there is no explicit indication of what local communities represent here and not least, as I have mentioned, also landowners. This is not the case in the law itself, and especially in those articles where it is absolutely necessary. It is true, as the applicant did before, that in the second implementation he said that the possibility was that, not least in all of this implementation, this should explicitly refer to the area of the specific congregation of Cerklje in Gorenjska, which is the only one in this country that does not have a hunting family, but has a hunting society. This does not have a square metre as a hunting family in the region of Churches, but a state hunting ground. Article 71, second paragraph, states that it is possible for a government within 6 months of the introduction of this law "with special purposes and a transitional paragraph and conditions for the distribution of these catchments". Yeah, it's true, but it can also expand it, not just narrow it down. In this case, I would not have pretended politically and perhaps even believed that it was possible for a special hunt to be brought to life, but by the way you want to enforce such a law, I fear that the fisheries will spread with special purpose. I don't want to be insulting, really not because, lastly, you know, I've been dealing with this problem for 15 years. There were three hunting families in our area who also managed these hunting grounds. After 1950, they were deprived of these rights. In conclusion, I would say that I would like - and I think you will see for yourself - that this article 3 or 7 with these amendments is necessary. It is still time for the third reading that, if these amendments are not prepared to be perfect, it may also be possible to make corrections. However, unless these amendments are accepted in this article, the matter is definitely concrete. And once again I warn you and let me say that we have changed the definition of'state hunting' into'special hunting' or'special purposes' I have also asked the Committee on Agriculture what'special hunting' means. Is he also a special game? Are they going to be special hunters? Are these the special owners of these properties, or land and forests? Gentlemen, I think that this is how to deceive through law with some "special hunting grounds" or "special purpose" - I think this is not right for Slovenian citizens, in short, to landowners and not least - because it does not appear anywhere - to local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Ašić wanted to replicate to correct the misstatement of its implementation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Thank you, Vice President. You've already said the same thing. I didn't talk about any social property before, I didn't talk about the 81st and 82nd. I was talking about the non-necessity of the amendment to Article 7 proposed so far. It is true, however, that the social property that still exists will need to be transferred to a country or a forest institution, in accordance with this law, by some of the current institutions operating the so-called hunting grounds that will be governed by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Merlo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u221	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. So, with regard to Article 7, I would say that it is necessary to get to know us and to recall a little of history. I think that during the postwar period when farming was being established, probably all these wildlings were so reduced that they were essentially meant to preserve or establish to a minimum the reduced species of animals, and, over the years, to bring them into something to say, such a condition that they actually envy us in the world right now. I think that thanks go mainly to these breeding grounds that have been established, especially in these more remote areas, and I think that they were not disturbing for anyone, because there are organizations that have had some influence to say, to this reproduction of these animals in these remote areas, not to mention the biotechnological colleges and various other institutes, veterinary and similar, how many doctorates this has been done in recent decades on the subject of studying this flora and favni in these areas. This is what I think in these areas, which are closed and in which professionals work mainly, is that over a hundred in Slovenia, that this was so important that these people as professional staff cooperated with our scientific institutions and were then also in the world with various exhibits on these professional topics always praised, as an example that is supposed to be replicated somewhere in the world and should also be regulated by our example in countries. Thus, I would not discuss how all those who come as guests, as tourists in our areas of hunting tourism, express their superlatives about this Slovenian biodiversity. I would point out that in these fishing areas it is particularly necessary to say that not only with this economic pay, as I mentioned, that over a hundred people are connected to survival, plus their families, plus this is mainly happening in areas where it is virtually impossible to obtain any other service, except perhaps for forestry services and so on. [[...]] As already said colleague Weber, in these more remote areas, this is also for economic reasons one of the possibilities for these people to stay there at all, live, work and perhaps try to introduce some new content into this environment somewhere. Unlike these forestry hunting grounds, these hunting families, which were established in Slovenia, must be recognised, with great enthusiasm and with a large number of hours invested by all these amateurs with various breeding activities in their hunting grounds, this is nowhere visible, anywhere paid, it is just a hobby and pleasure, nature conservation. Of course, if we were to keep only hunting families, there would probably be some professional projects, such as those involved in the Life Project and various monitoring of wild beasts from the European Union and similar, they would probably be a little more difficult in hunting families. Certainly these hunting grounds are through the forest institute, which, as I say, are like some teaching bases for hunting families, and I don't think they're disturbing for anyone. I think it's kind of depressed to say that these are hunters for free hunting politicians and so on. This may have happened at some point, but I think it's been for decades now; and more so, according to storytelling, in such a small number that it's irrelevant. So I think today these are just hunting grounds that need to be stressed that they are living alone. These people and these hunters are paying taxes, renting pastures and the like, so that they are useful to this country. I don't think there's a dilemma at all-- about any speculation, that I don't know what's going on in them or anything. I think they're doing a good job, they're under the control of the forest office -- professionally, it says, on a level, and I wouldn't go into it. Maybe we could correct some of them, like Comrade Onbulj said, if there's, like, a guilty party, they don't have a hunting family or anything like that. It's probably a lot of hunting and there's some compromise to be made. However, I think that, in particular, this hunting ground of Kozorog, which has been mentioned many times, has played an extremely important role in the preservation of the porcine and other Alpine species, which have not only been preserved but also multiplied, so that today we can also talk about some of the exemplary populations of these animals living in this high area. Not to mention these hunting grounds, which extend to this south-eastern part of Slovenia, which are extremely poorly humanised, and, of course, they represent the very ideal conditions for rearing and maintaining our beasts, which would certainly have been destroyed if they had not had these breeding grounds. I mean, in this nature-protection aspect, it is also necessary to say that these beasts, which are in fact protected not only by us today, but also by Europe, are virtually unacceptable for any fragmentation of hunting sites in beasts and would probably be the beginning of the end of the preservation of the beast in our field. This would absolutely support these interpretations in this Article 7 and, if we think about it, we will all agree that we will have a very important role and role in our hunting in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. As many as two made themselves aware of the reply to Mr Merl's implementation, namely Mr Sušnik, who is also on the agenda, and Mr Čebulj. Let me explain. The replica under the new Rules of Procedure is if you have been misunderstood, but Mr Merlo said, I can agree with Mr Sušnik in the work that is still so. This is a controversy and you can express it further, in the debate under this Article. But it's not a replica. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Look, in no case would I like to play the rules of procedure, to get even less into the bad will of the president, but I think that the law on game and hunting deals with such an important area of our country that it is worth talking about also because it tanges 22,000 hunters, 350 thousand landowners, and all those who in one way or another enjoy the ecological function of the forest and the hunting grounds and all that is involved. Look, any solution that will not be minimal at least - I am not an optimist to say that it will optimally satisfy all those involved in this process - will not be good for our continued good management of the game. In this sense, once again, I stress, we have tabled an amendment to remove specific fisheries. See, Mr Anderlich, on behalf of the applicants, you have written down that the hunting area is divided into fisheries and fishing areas of particular importance. With this you have practically equalized hunting and hunting with a special meaning if we continue to look at the articles spoken in chapter three: planning, management of the game. Do not separate the preparation of a plan for hunting and for hunting with special meaning. From this point of view and taking into account this, even in the fact that normally this special or hunting country, if you want, is simply not possible to stop overnight and that it would also be a decision that these fisheries with special meaning - do not literally end, we do not say that the hunting function is to be abolished, but that the management of the hunting grounds, which can be referred to as "hunting with special meaning", is to be granted to a hunting family which must be treated in a special way as the management of the hunting grounds with special meaning, according to annual plans, as the hunting family must do in its hunting or the director who runs the fishing area with special meaning. There's no difference here. The hunting inspectors are responsible for one and the other hunting grounds. The essential difference here, however, is in that concept that, in such specially designed hunting grounds, we satisfy the tendency of landowners, which include such areas, I will not say, hunting grounds of particular importance, through this hunting family, which would receive a concession in this area, they can carry out their hunting activity. That's an essential difference. See, in some articles we have restricted or given the hunting family the opportunity to limit membership in relation to the size of the fishing area - I think it is written somewhere that 50 hectares per member should be provided. By continuing the pursuit of hunting sites with special meaning in such a form - not in the form proposed through the award of a concession to a hunting family, new-born or neighbouring or whatever - I think we have - once again - the trained, educated, work of willing hunters in Slovenia enough to be able to perform the functions that special hunting is performing today. And in order to significantly extend the possibility of hunting for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who want to do so and who, in contrast, will be deprived of the possibility of hunting participation by those who engage in hunting today, because the further legalisation of these special hunting grounds will be without the possibility that the owners of the land that are part of these special hunting grounds, through the hunting family that manages this special hunting area, will have their hunting right - there will be conflicts. The conflict, which will in the final stage pose exceptional problems, unless it is completely impossible to enforce this law and ultimately the goal that we are all trying to track, will be affected to maintain further sonar management of the game, as you have imagined, and, last but not least, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports. I think it is time for us to compromise here and to delete the matter, or paragraph 7, in the transitional provisions, and describe the fate of this so-called "special hunting grounds" - not immediately, it is possible to give a two-year or three-year transitional period, because we all know that it is a matter of jobs, that it is a matter of property. Last but not least, you must also know or be sure that you know that our hunting families have large assets, that they can manage property and that these hunting families are capable of taking over this state property or that they are now in a special hunting area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am closely following the debate on Article 7, from which it is difficult to understand what we would like to do with fishing grounds. If you are following some amendments, it is a desire to completely abolish them, while at the same time explaining that we must not harm the employees, that we must not fail to know what to do, which does not go along with the proposed solutions offered here in these amendments. At the same time, I note that almost every debater sees his breeding grounds, and from this point of view he also deals with them. I'm sorry if I'm gonna do it myself. For me, the solution to remain as it is is unacceptable and to be completely abolished is unacceptable. However, all the intermediate compromises are so fast that they are impossible to make. I'll tell you why. On the one hand, these are breeding grounds that carry out activities like all hunting families in that environment. I know where I come from, we have two cases of hunting, which, in addition to this basic activity, carry on an economic activity, this is a breeding game which is sold on the markets of the former Yugoslavia and Italy, if the political and health conditions are normal there. Here there are 19 employees in one place, on the other a little less, and it would be unacceptable for me to abolish this hunting ground and it is of all solutions, despite all the most appropriate ones that we have proposed in the transitional provisions. The other story is that in these environments, with us -- everybody thinks about the money that's supposed to come from the bounty hunt. We have a problem of compensation that is greater than the income of hunting families or hunting grounds and no one takes account of this damage, we all just share some money that is not in our possession. At present, the situation is such that breeding fisheries, in particular one which is on the Hungarian border, cover damage from the personal income of employees. As a result, we have also proposed in the transitional provisions of the solution, which should in some way be remedied by changing the status of these breeding grounds. We would solve the problem of employees, and also in another article of the compensation, for which I am satisfied that the text proposed in this law is such that it will probably also solve the problems of compensation, but never and never to the end. Since damage to the settlements is such, the one who experiences it is, of course, hurt, regardless of the extent to which it is covered, and of course this damage is almost never covered by a hundred percent. Establishing hunting grounds with the consent of the municipalities and owners - I can't imagine what that would look like. A hunting ground covering two, three thousand owners - what's that supposed to look like? Various solutions are offered, but they are all going in this direction so that, with the consent of the owners, they can establish a hunting ground, but the parcel structure is such that some rounded area on state land will never, ever, ever be able to form. The congregation’s cooperation or approval may be a little closer, but when you have three, four congregations in one growing area, it is very difficult not to find a congregation that does not agree. In fact, farmers' involvement is usually such that they oppose a variety of solutions, often irrational ones, and it would be very difficult to create such farming fisheries. If we don't open Article 7, it's not true that there are no other solutions. In the transitional provisions of Articles 81 and 82, they continue to enable or entrust the Government and the competent authorities and institutions to find solutions within 6 months. For example, my closest problem is my colleague, Onbul, probably because this Cosorog is on the agenda, he can't beat a hunting organisation without a hunting ground. And you need to find a problem in this direction. But it is still a search for compromise and a time frame in which the problem is needed - not to mention too often, my fellow onion - to look for or someone is already in charge of doing so. It's not just the government because there are others. In all solutions, when a hunting breeding area is formed, an area, this is a broader concept - there are always representatives of farmers, usually agri-farm chambers, local communities and then all the others that we list, so that we do not repeat. And I don't see the problem here that it would not be possible to solve individual problems that are, of course, if we don't go looking for solutions that are not actually acceptable, and some interference with other solutions to the law that have nothing to do with this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion - don't you want a word? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you very much. When I look at this Article 7, I ask myself, indeed, some Members have not read everything so apologisically as to defend solutions that are completely unilateral. For example, it says: "The hunting grounds for special purpose are formed in the most preserved and characteristic natural environments of the Republic of Slovenia." This is an opportunity for me to keep such hunting, if it is of such interest, where farmers of the century have grown. These are the most preserved areas for me, where for centuries people have been farming and living there, because for me Kočevsko is not the most preserved. My friend Webber always explains everything's gone down there. That's where people actually moved. They had no respect for the interests of the local population in the previous system. It was a whole closed area. It's not a protected area for me that no one would sell, that it would be in areas like Kočevska and so on. But you gave yourself the opportunity literally in some way to nationalize where, I don't know, somewhere in the middle of the Slovenian Mountains, if they like it, and so on. And, look, I'm surprised, my colleague Merle, that with such blindness, he was actually defending such solutions. He says that I agree that these special hunting grounds are thanks for reproduction, for the breeding of some rare species, and for the breeding of wild game, and for the biodiversity between our game and so on. I agree with that, that's true. But, Mr Merlo, if wildlings are so intensively cultivated, or there is no greater need for wildlings. Are you going to say that animals live in these special hunting grounds of holy spirit? The Bible says that man does not live on bread alone, but you claim that animals and wild animals do not need bread and food at all, with such thinking. A man with such a profession, even though he is a hunter, would expect obedience for a small man, for a farmer, and so on. I'd really expect that. And I would expect the knowledge that it is on such a special farm, that this land is particularly burdened, that there must be - let me admit, positive functions, but here are the economic effects and all of this, let there be something with the local community, something with the local population. Let them have some of this, but not that you literally allow it, you predict the nationalisation of these lands. We know that in Kočevska, people had to escape. I know my friend Špiletic used to sit here and he said we had to leave the farm because we couldn't live anymore. Indeed, such a pity that there was no longer a prospect could no longer be cultivated. He said that several times. And you're trying to defend these patterns. No, that's too much. It's too much, and once again I remind you of the spirit that is beating from this marriage. I hope that the hunters can now come to the National Assembly because the hunting union has otherwise prescribed for them - God beware of the Members talking and hanging out, and were afraid to get infected. That letter from the Hunting Association was an insult to this National Assembly. It's an insult. Now I hope the Hunting Association has learned that such indoctrination of its members, the average hunter, cannot be done. And that everyone will come to realize that something needs to be changed here. That we must have a European law so that we cannot enter some Stalinistic samples. It's actually a step back from what it's been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u229	I have a replica of Mr Jerovsk about what this law should be about - because we are talking about this law, at least that's how I understood it - I was doing it in Kočevska. If every marriage brought as much to Kočevsko as this, then I would be quite pleased and definitely this law solves some of the problems. I have described some of them before in the operation of hunting sites with a special purpose, and if the SDS amendment was adopted, some of the assets would really be lost and a number of families would be destroyed. That is why I have pointed out that the SDS amendment does not show support, because too many families will be exposed and, of course, assets will also be exposed. And I am also pleased that the local community is not the one who is supposed to be getting money from hunting, it is important that those who are harmed by this activity receive money. These are, for example, farmers and others, if they are harmed there. And the system of compensation and the creation of a fund for the control and transfer of liability to a country, insofar as damage funds are running out, is what I think is very important for the development of this part of Slovenia to remain at a level as it is today. But accepting your amendment would have caused the collapse of some family, as I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, then Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u231	From all this debate it can be seen as if there is some conflict between hunters and landowners. But in fact, there is a conflict between some narrow elite in hunting that wants to continue working on some old patterns of superiority, not in symbiosis. I am also concerned about the mentality that is discussing or monitoring all of this. We should go back a little bit to the base point. The principle adopted is almost 200 years ago in relation to hunting. Don't let the hunters hunt for fun and pleasure. It's a basic principle. But when you read here, there's winged to be something ecological, but in fact it's closing animals into fences, then feeding animals near village settlements, to change their behavior and to have some hunters very close to their hunting grounds. For the way animals behave changes, indeed. We should also put in a condition for feeding animals - no closer than seven kilometers from dwellings. Yes, of course, to preserve their natural characteristics! Then it happens to us like it's in the Los Stream and stuff. Yes, it is the cultivation of animals in some separats, in order to satisfy some individuals' pleasure. I object to that. I strongly object to that. I respect the hunting organisation in terms of conservation of biotopes, appropriate population. Even this number of animals, if left in a more natural way in nature, would be balanced, would be natural selection. But they reproduce too much with inappropriate approaches, some with no enemies, easy feeding, and this is not the right system. This isn't the right system. Farmers won't get anything. The last time a farmer came to my office, and he said that there was still that field - that is down in Sodražica, near Kočev, in short, that direction towards Kočev, where everything was already healed, because there are no more fields, there are no more meadows - that he had that field and that, given that there are no more eternals, the animals came to that poor field and in one day it went all the way! Yeah, what a compensation! Five grand! Five grand in damages in a year! If this is how you plan to handle things, then this story will end quickly. Therefore, if they were landowners, irrespective of size, to allow them to hunt and to have a hunting organisation, they would act in harmony, because on the one hand they would have a desire to preserve animals which, on the other hand, provide a favourable harvest for them and, on the other hand, to protect their agricultural area. That's the concept of the law. Now with these amendments, we're trying to make things right, but this thing can't be fixed, it's just a fluke. Because someone imagined going to the elite and digging it into a law that is contrary to the basic origins of hunting, the starting points at which hunting took place in Slovenia. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, Article 7, amendments to Article 7, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u233	I must respond to the contradiction that Mr Weber has expressed. Indeed, Mr Weber sees great benefits from breeding hunting grounds or from the density of breeding hunting grounds with special purposes. Then Kočevska should be the most developed area. There you had it all along, and if these are good for the local population, then I know that you on the Committee on the Economy, for agriculture "amrate" that Kočevska is completely destroyed. [[...]] When it comes to state money, I think that the most important thing to pander to is that you are the most affected there, that you should less develop that everything is destroyed, that is how you emphasize, that you speak, and here you are talking about not knowing what the effects of this are. See, if the local population felt these benefits of this density of special hunting grounds, then it would take place everywhere in Slovenia, that there was as much of it as possible, on their lands and so on, if there were anything of it so far, or if it were in the future. People know how to calculate quickly. But the locals didn't have much of it. But they had politicians, years ago, but still, still, and big "voices". Because Mr. Merlo says 30 years ago you went hunting important. And I remember the pictures from our newspapers, when it's some important representative, your client's policy, sometimes, what kind of director I see in the pictures from these hunting grounds, and I remember that, you have a bad memory, but it's still happening. I don't know if they're paying or not paying. But I know they walk you. It doesn't matter because you know who I mean. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u235	Thank you for your word. I am pleased by this interest of Mr Jerovsk for Kočevsko and for my discussions. And I'm also glad that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u236	It's not a replica. It's a debate. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I gave the floor to Mr Webra, as before to Mr Jerovsk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u237	I am glad that he actually listens to me in these discussions. I would be even more pleased if I voted on these proposals, and if there is any pain in Kočevska, then this is a concession for state forests. That's 350 million dollars. And if this concession remained in Kočevsek, we could really talk about rapid development. But since you didn't vote for it, then you caused Kočevskevski's insurrection with your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u239	I can't agree with your contradictory thinking. In fact, you once claim that everything is affected, and on the other hand, praise how well everything was in the previous regime. At that time, they performed it in the best way possible, but in Kočevsko the most failed! They had "heads" all in their hands there. And that's where everything went down the most. At the same time, praise those solutions. That's what's always going on. That's why I can't agree with your contradiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I think we can finish Mr. Merlo, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u241	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'd only try to hold on to article 7, but I can't help but try to explain a few things when I was mentioned. I think it was said about the bread and the feeding of the beast. I think it's that food moment that has also kept these animals in the basic habitat, so we don't have to do things like this every day. As far as damage is concerned. The damage is also lower because animals are kept high in an unpopular area where there is no agricultural land, but only forests and what high pastures are unexploited today. That's what I'd say about a little farmer. Talking to many members of hunting families, we have found that the vast majority is right to say, these small people, small farmers who see through this possibility to engage in this activity. Otherwise, if the law hadn't been set up as it is, these little farmers, as someone says here, would have been forced to stay at home and those few people who are just supporters of a different system, a different view of this rescue, would have been the ones who would have made the whole story and made it impossible for these people, these little farmers, to be hunters like most of them today. As far as the richer ones are concerned, whether they are politicians, whether they are economists or directors, that is probably true. Those would also have some income left over so they could go hunting for a hobby. But he would be hurt, of course, like always a small man, which absolutely does not hold what you said. So, as it was said, about the conflict of hunting elites with landowners, I absolutely cannot agree with this hunting elite, because I don't know, maybe because I see that largely the hunting fraternity is up here, I don't know who is considered an elite here. I think there's fewer or probably no more in there. It was said that it was a system of trapping animals into fences. I have pointed out that this is precisely what breeding grounds are, that these are large areas, sparsely populated areas, where they can manage purposefully with these animals, and they are not confined to fences and so on. For if we went to shreds of matters and tying stories to ownership of the land, then it would be that we would have not had a single boor in this Slovenia or those things we have, but they would be unnumbered, to which most of us are probably present here. As far as natural selection is concerned. I am sorry to say that natural selection today - science has gone and comes to such degrees and measurements and is progressing so quickly that unfortunately it is no longer possible to talk today in the world about natural selection. And man gradually exposes nature as well. I don't think that's wise, but development and science can't be stopped. So unfortunately, even here, although I would like to see it, that we would return perhaps, as far as this is concerned, a century ago, but unfortunately we can't do it. And if a different law were to be adopted, I am deeply convinced that in this country, perhaps fewer people would go hunting, perhaps more golfing, and so forth. However, believe me, for your craftsmen and future generations, I can only say this: I hope that they have preserved nature at least as much as they do today, that they will keep it, and that they will not come as you go west and around every corner you see a "private property" table and you cannot move from that path if you go into the hills or anywhere. I do not want this to happen today or in the future, and I hope that Slovenia will not experience this, because believe me, even in the vast majority, whether or not our owners have become foreigners, because, rather, we let foreigners as able neighbours get to something - believe me, I do not want such a country and such trends in any law I cannot support. That's why I don't think it's an ideal proposal for marriage, but it's something that keeps some balance between human beings, nature, and I think it's unfortunately, although not a perfect thing, like I said, some optimism that I can also accept today, with what kind of comments we can make. Certainly, none of the things in life today are ideal, nor are any laws that we adopt. I think this one's one of the better ones. However, I certainly do not think it is as bad as it is today through the prism of some to say that, unfortunately, the significantly richer layers in this country can, by the way, also be with the mistakes that have been made in our short history of this country and when, by the way, we have a few ambassadors in this country who will make what we have today impossible for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 7 and on the amendments and we turn to the debate on Article 8 and the four amendments to this Article, namely the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party and the Party of Youth of Slovenia and the Slovenian Democratic Party. Who wants a word? In order, Mr. Sok, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go, Mr. Sok, then Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. I think most of these amendments have been written on this criterion of 2,000 hectares. According to the law, hunting may be at least 2,000 hectares [2,000 ha]. Of course, I wonder where the criterion of 2,000 hectares was set and what this criterion would actually allow. If 2 thousand hectares remain to be written, then it will be that some hunting families that do not have such large hunting grounds will simply have to stop managing or carrying out their hunting activities. We have also pointed out this on the Committee on Agriculture, but there is Member Merlo, who has so advocated such a concept of law as he has comforted us that it is not to stop the work of certain hunting families, but to lead us to association.It is said that some hunting families will simply have to unite to meet this criterion 2,000 hectares. In our Group of Members, we propose that we actually legislate two principles of the size of hunting grounds. Such a principle, I think, has already been proposed with guidance in 1946, namely that in lowland areas there would be fishing, it is said, in flat areas, fishing is smaller, there are up to 1,000 hectares, while in altitude areas there could be larger fishing. This would avoid this principle or the consequences of this legislation, so that some hunting families will actually have to stop hunting because they do not meet this criterion of 2,000 hectares. But, as I said earlier, when the president interrupted me, even though we have a limited opportunity to discuss after this famous rule of procedure and we will not be able to discuss it any longer, this concept of law, as such, is flawed. It is wrong that we have not adopted another approach, the right approach, where the fishing grounds could be municipal and this would mean that more individuals can combine agricultural land into smaller fisheries. The concept of law is wrong, as I have said many times before, the LDS policy of running this country is wrong. But that is what most citizens will learn when they feel this concept on their own. To end a socialist, communist regime we have taken 50 years, I hope that we will not take another 50 years to feel and finally get to know all of these liberal democracy experiments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Look, I already said in the introduction on behalf of our parliamentary group that we support the implementation of hunting and wildlife management on large surfaces. In this respect, from this point of view, we support large fisheries, while at the same time we are aware that the strict application of this provision would likely limit 2,000 hectares, due to the existing situation, due to the fact that I will say that these history of hunting families, would limit the hunting activities of quite a number of members of those hunting families whose hunting grounds do not reach the prescribed limit of 2,000 hectares. That is why I call on you to support our amendment, by which we would legislate with the addition of this word "rules" also those exceptions which we already know and which are conditioned, last but not least, by the specific conditions of fishing in certain areas of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. For a little while. We propose that the word "landowners" be deleted in the second indent. Indeed, the fact is that the damage caused by the game can also occur on other things and other operators are entitled to it. In this way, the provision set out in the second indent of paragraph 1 will be flawed. Secondly, with the proposed reduction of the minimum size of the catch to at least 1000 hectares, we do not prevent anyone who has already carried out this activity so that in the future we can give only the possibility to organize a hunting family in a smaller area. We know that Slovenia is in fact diverse, forested, that it can only be better adaptability to the operation of the fisheries. We therefore propose that the National Assembly, in fact, would be, in place, give this opportunity to also here give the possibility of an additional initiative and in fact, most importantly, an additional opportunity for hunting and organising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Butolen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. From a principled point of view, I think there are too many fixed numbers in our laws, not just that. That is why I will support the fourth amendment, which adds the word "rules", so it is said that hunting should not normally be less than 2,000 hectares. Not only will this enable certain hunting families to continue their activities, certain hunting families or hunting grounds are on the border, and about half a kilometer of highway would, say, reduce the hunting area below 2,000 hectares and cause new problems. However, since in essence the hunting ground will be established by the government on the basis of the professional grounds that will be produced by the institution in cooperation with hunting and nature protection organisations, there is no fear that these will generally have any serious consequences for the involvement of hunting families and, in particular, for game, which we are all committed to. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? I conclude the debate on Article 8 and the amendments to this Article. The amendment to Article 9 is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I therefore open the debate on Article 11 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 13 and the two amendments. Under one is the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and under two of the LDS Club of Parliament. Anybody want a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much. When we talk about hunting and wildlings, of course, it is essential to combine the damage caused by wildlife in nature with these concepts. For this reason, in our Group of Members, we have advocated that the plans of the hunting and management areas produced by the Forestry Institute and in which agricultural organisations are involved, followed by organisations in the field of nature protection and other organisations, should be agreed by the local communities. We are convinced that it is only in such a way that it is possible to adopt these plans at such a level that the population of species of game is in nature coordinated, that these populations are not too large and that the size of these populations does not cause significant damage. Already in the present law, there was a principle that congregations - of course, the law is old, from 1976, but it provided that the hunting and breeding plans of the congregation assembly should give their consent. This has, of course, not been implemented in practice. Now that we have a new principle of local self-government, that would be possible. Liberal democracy is proposing its amendment, where they remain only on the principle of cooperation. We are convinced that if only on the principle or principle of cooperation remained, the law would have to define how this cooperation should take place. For in practice, it is possible to imagine different forms of cooperation; whether they are non-binding opinions, whether they are just some kind of initiative or something else. So, the simple concept of "cooperation" is not sufficiently clearly defined, so we are convinced that consent would be the category of cooperation that would mean the actual commitment to a plan such as that produced by the institution, a local community in which the area of the hunting and management area is to agree. If such a principle were to be enacted in law, then we are convinced that the great damage caused by the post- and post- and post-terrestrials would essentially be reduced, because local communities know their areas best and also know and can assess the extent to which the damage caused by or when the population of a species of game is too large and therefore too much damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u253	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that a good basis for future wild management will be such a law that will take sufficient account of the local communities and owners of agricultural land and forests included in the cadaster of hunting grounds. This is one of the things that must be taken into account irrefutablely. Once again, if this is not the case, in my deep conviction, further management and concern for game will be affected, the concern for nature will be affected and, above all, the possibility of hunting activities will be impaired or distorted for many members of hunting families. A single correction has been made in this direction in the handling of the working body, which I do not think is sufficient. Because cooperation does not necessarily mean the real role of the local community. I am sure that as soon as possible there will be a reform of the assembly system, so I will also say, reforms, agri-agricultural chambers, where all owners of agricultural land and forests are now included and set up, membership in the agri-agricultural chamber will be more or less voluntary. On the other hand, both members of hunting families, hunters and citizens, as well as all small owners, who have a majority of their influence on wildlife management, on the pursuit of hunting activities, on the adoption of hunting plans, and on the basis of the relevant local community consensus institute, we will therefore support the amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 13 of the New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u255	This is one of those amendments, which represents a clear compromise and a tendency for the sound of all the entities present in the space and which must make their contribution in order to ensure that the whole matter is harmonised. In the event that one of these entities is in a position to give consent, even those who are not in charge of making these plans to be, therefore, conditionality with one another, then, in fact, disable the basic function which the Forestry Office has already had under the nature protection law and under other laws in that country. And this is one of the following or sequences of laws in the field of nature, nature protection, nature management and the like. And by bringing us into law that such hunting organisations, both agricultural organisations, must participate, and I do not agree with what Mr Sušnik said would be a voluntary membership in the agri-agricultural chamber. On the contrary, because you remember the discussions about how hard they were and how unhappy some of them are, because with their kindergartens they must be members of the agricultural chamber, but they would not be, not because they would not have paid that contribution, but because of the way they organised them, because they would have wanted to do otherwise. The local communities can, and must, contribute to this planning and also communicate to the institution where they have special needs, special purposes, they want a different way of regulating. And I am confident that in the context of those others listed here, they will find a place in this planning. As well as, of course, when it comes to organisations specifically linked to wildlife, nature, the environment and so on. We have found some solutions on the committee concerning mountain links, which also in nature carry out some important sociological, environmental, and I do not know what functions, by marking them, mark paths. By leading people to organized walks into nature and so on and so forth. By thinking that, however, on this broad spectrum of participants, we would be looking for solutions when it comes to common good when it comes to the welfare of all citizens and citizens and the right to manage natural wealth, which is, after all, savages, nature, the environment certainly is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u257	Mr. Anderlich. Well, I could agree with your innovative principles, but that's a nice word they're not going to live to see the truth. For those who are the petty owners you mentioned, nothing will concern them as to what they will have from animals, from hunting. Will they have anything? Let's ask small people at Kočevsko, Ribniško, Bad Stream and around. Ask them, ask them, and see what answer they have. Now, hunters and without the possibility of becoming owners in one way or another. It doesn't have to be a hunting zone, it could be a smaller hunting ground. By bringing these owners together, either through the local community or directly. But they won't have any of this. Because even now they did not have something special because the hunting organization, or hunters, did what they had been taught. It's not possible to push everything into the same basket. Some people just have this environmental sense developed confidently. But that's not gonna happen. These are high-end thoughts, and it's not going to work. [[...]] The conflict is coming. This law will cause conflict, and this is wrong in this law. The law should reduce conflict, between owners, between hunters and the population. But it's going to increase it, and you can't understand it, it's not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u259	I would add only this if farmers did not have this ecological nature-protection sense to the wild, then, of course, hunters themselves would find it difficult to preserve this game in the Slovenian space. We can all be united. It is true, however, that in some areas a number of large populations of certain species of game occur. And that this savage then causes damage that are too great. There is no means of redress for these damages. I can't imagine how you, if you want to be centralistic, will decide all of this and how you will manage these matters under the terms of this new law. If they gave some functions to local communities, of course, this would be much easier to handle. Because local communities know the problems that arise there, not in Ljubljana. I don't live in Ljubljana, I live in the countryside, and I can watch this thing happen in practice. Here from these Ljubljana asphalt pavements, the matter may look significantly different than from one perspective of life somewhere in the village. There would be nothing to overturn this law if local communities were given this function, that they were co-operators in these plans. Of course, you decide, you have this majority and do it your way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u261	Yeah, of course, it's free to talk if you don't believe in well-intentionedness and what we're actually defending here. We want to set up some system, some principles that are needed in this particular law and, of course, in general, if the law is, even follow. It's no accident, though, that the Farm-landing Chamber was established. It has established that 350,000 or how many owners have already plotted will actually connect to some interested community, to a community of owners that will regulate certain things within themselves and will be an appropriate interlocutor to the state. In this case, after all, as representatives of the owners of the institution, which will, on behalf of the State, plan these matters in those management areas or those plans of the hunting management areas. And of course, I do not imagine that any individual owner of any parcel can directly regulate the rights arising from any general, public, common good. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course you're talking, that's what you're talking about. I imagine that in this system, we have arranged matters in this country by bringing the owners of agricultural land and forests together in an interesting and compulsory manner into the agri-agricultural chamber, which represents them as owners of the visa of other requirements in relation to the country and in this case, together with the institution, they plan certain matters. This is a similar matter for local communities. The local community is a community of people who reside in a particular area and are represented by the mayor, together with the municipal council which accepts these views. And the municipal council is going to deal with these things and it's going to say, we disagree with this, and I don't really understand how it would be if the absolute rejection of the will of some environment was that in some area where there's a hundred, I imagine 100 locusts and I don't know how to shoot 10 in a year, and that this local community would say, no, eleven of them, or nine of them. But they will listen to some professional criteria, professional principles, and concerted conduct. I imagine so. Thank God we don't all make decisions about everything and we don't need to do it, but those who represent it will be - just like in other representative organisations, just like here. Therefore, I regret that if you do not believe in a good purpose, but this article is very much aimed at finding a sound between owners, the local community, after all, the local communities also vary greatly depending on the extent to which the landscape is structured, if you want, from the forest to the asphalt, as has been said. In some, say Šempetr-Wrotojba, there is certainly absolute asphalt in front of some other agricultural and other areas. And of course, there is another interest, such as the Osilnica municipality, where, in fact, there are almost more bears than the population. Therefore, I would like you to understand this norm in a compromise between those who plan to be responsible in this country, those who are interested and those who are entitled to it as owners, such as those who are potential victims and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think these two amendments are almost identical. Perhaps the amendment under number 2 is more verbally correct, and I think what the predecessor said before me is that there is one solution here that we will also support in our parliamentary group. Perhaps, however, it would be advisable to consider before the third reading, in order to somehow define how this cooperation will work. Because there will be a lot of different people involved here, and especially these people will depend on what this cooperation will be like. Perhaps it would be good for us to somehow define it by the third reading. However, I must also say that as far as wildlife treatment is concerned, as well as the common agricultural policy goes in this direction, I don't know, nobody has said today that with 2004 this so-called SCOP will enter into force, where 23 new measures will be taken and those measures will also be defined, including for the benefit of the game. So those who are so strongly convinced that if anything changes here in this hunting legislation, that it will be over with the wild, I don't think they will. European directives are also targeted in this direction and, as previously said, farmers are not slaughterhouses, as hunters are not slaughterhouses. We should really find some middle ground here. And perhaps, just as a solution is offered in this article, we will make some effort to find other articles where questions are open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Three more of you have spoken to me. First, Mr Petty Officer, then Mr Weber and Mr Ašič. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u265	Of course, there is a fundamental difference between cooperation and consensus. We know how extensive cooperation is, and you also said that you worked in cooperation with the Agricultural Forestry Chamber and many others, and then at the meeting it turned out that you had no cooperation. This will, of course, be the case in advance. With local communities, come on. That won't do any good. I've told you so much. You will send one dispatch to say we covered the cooperation, with this indeed not, which is why this is the situation now. Look, just in Kočevska they say, when the balance was achieved, about 200, 250 bears were in the end, there was no intensive show like the ones now being fed by the settlements, and now there are 700 bears. Now, Mr Merle is not in there to explain. Is he in the back? Nice. But you know, that's what happened, and bears, every bear, as you know, needs such a surface to survive. The males, the females with the cubs, are known, and you, of course, these bears, which are too many and do not have their own land, roam their territory, and thus in my parents walk beautifully across the yard during the day. They've also lost this fear of man, the behavior has changed, but I'm not for them to become bears of domestic animals. Keep that straight and you have that in other countries too, and this will continue to be done by the Central Service. What a local community, give it a break. You'll send the dispatches.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. I must admit that it is read well and hears the consent of the local community, but, consent is very binding. If the local community wants to give consent to the plan of the hunting management area, of course, you must also have an adequately trained staff or employees working in this area, which means that you need at least one, two or maybe even three, given that this is a very wide spectrum that needs to be mastered and, of course, this consensus is also linked to the costs that the local community will certainly have if it gives its consent. For by doing so he takes full responsibility for what is happening in this space, and if we are talking about bears, what we see how difficult it is to achieve, I would say consent at the level of the country, or even beyond the level of the state, because every shot of a bear, one or two triggers an extremely wide controversy. And I must admit that I do not want to reach agreement with all of these issues in or outside the country as we have already witnessed, when some of the activities have survived, so that the shooting of a bear in Slovenia is not carried out. We can find that the profession has proved that it is necessary to control this stock, even to reduce it, but the controversy, of course, was such that it was not possible to carry out, I will say, all of these activities in a way that would, I would say, be as manageable as possible. In the recent period, this balance has indeed broken slightly, but I point out that the congregation’s consent would not have been successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u269	Thank you very much. In fact, the amendment proposed by Nova Slovenija to Article 13 is such that if it were adopted, we do not know how to implement it. For what cooperation is and what are these organizations of agriculture? Which are nature conservation organisations and whose other organisations are linked to the wild and its environment. If we adopt such a law, there is really no plan to do so, because the intern, this is a institution, will not really know who to cooperate with. I am concerned about the mistrust of some Members towards us, to this House. For we have adopted legislation on the basis of which we have a Chamber of Agricultural and Regional Chambers, where we have a Department of Nature Protection, we have established it. And we do not trust these institutions to cooperate professionally and well in the preparation of the plans. The consent of local communities is slightly different from that of Mr Weber. In my opinion, the hunting area will extend significantly to the hunting area, rather than covering one local community itself. For this area is an area that covers many hunting grounds. These fisheries will be about two hectares on average, 2,000 hectares on average. So again, if any of the areas for which the plan is being prepared will be covered by 5, 10, 15 municipalities, depending on which area of Slovenia this is and how the municipalities have broken down, only one article can cause the plan not to be adopted if it does not give consent. And it is already unacceptable in this part that we ourselves should adopt legislation that prevents the enforcement of law in one of the most important areas, and this is the preparation of hunting plans that contain all of the things that we are continuing to talk about today, that it is essential that we put the balance in nature, between humans and animals and the preservation of nature on solid foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u271	One amendment is likely to improve the solutions that each and the other would tolerate, and others may be put in order not to be accepted. And I am afraid that there are also some such things in this review that they should not be accepted, so that we can then sell the stories that we are experiencing these days, especially in areas where this topic is particularly questionable. People are coming to us, you know where they're talking about how everything is wrong with this law, how the hell they're gonna take it, how they can make farmers with their lands and their hunting grounds and have a lot of money. When we went to count, we calculated that if all the budgets of the hunting families, of these organisations, were to add up, it would be 250 to 500 tolars per hectare. Before that, however, we heard a fellow worker say that 5,000 tolars are too little after a hectare of compensation. It means someone's going to one big demagogy, what could have happened if it had been. But then, of course, nothing would have happened. The problem is again from my point of view, to cover all the damage first, and to enable the survival of the current hunting families, hunting organisations, and then to share money that will not be too much, there will be great disappointment, perhaps even for the state budget. And the solution in Article 13 is acceptable to me for the reasons given by Auschwitz not to repeat. He was probably also thinking of us, which are the most fragmented and consensus of the 16 municipalities for the poaching area. There's no way. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber shall be composed of the staff of the high professional services and managed by the farmers with the chambers and are members of the administrative authorities, and these are likely to be the ones nominated for these groups that will form hunting and farming areas and probably also plans. And it seems to me that the solution, as it is, is acceptable, and the other one is impossible for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I can close the debate. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 13 and the two amendments to this Article. I am opening a debate on Article 19 and the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am opening a debate on Article 20 and the amendment of the same proposer. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I am opening the debate on Article 21 and the amendment of the LDS. Nobody wants a word. I conclude the debate. I am opening the debate on Article 24 and the amendment of the same motions to this Article. Nobody wants a word. I am opening the debate on Articles 26 and three amendments. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go, Mr. Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Article 26 speaks of the advantage in selecting the concessionaire. Our amendment, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is practically identical to the amendment number 3 tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. Once again, I will stress our position, which is that landowners must first and foremost be allowed to exercise the hunting right resulting from land ownership within the framework of the hunting family, which, for this area where the agricultural land lies, obtains a concession. We therefore propose that the order should be amended as reflected in this amendment. This is one of the articles which is very important and will also depend on the content of this article whether there will be conflicts which I have already mentioned several times in the debate today, and to stress whether these conflicts will not occur. I think it is worth trying to satisfy the owners of agricultural land and thus enable the implementation of this law. However, this advantage in the selection of the concessionaire is also linked to our position towards the simultaneous new or simultaneous abolition of specific hunting grounds, including the allocation of fisheries management in the area of today's special hunting grounds must respect this principle, which we are implementing with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u275	Thank you for your word. Let's keep going. The fact is that, in granting the concession, a hunting organisation should take precedence first, whose majority of the landowners are also members of the hunting family or of the hunting grounds, or most of the members have a permanent residence in the said hunting area. Why is that important? The practice has shown that members of hunting families, who also have a permanent residence in a hunting area, have a better attitude to the issues arising from hunting, a better attitude, a better attitude towards the issue of the implementation of hunting and breeding plans, and in particular to the issue of sensitive conflicts with agricultural land owners in relation to the causing of damage. On the Committee, when this question was raised, how many hunting families do not meet this criterion in the Republic of Slovenia, it was said by the President of the Hunting Association that a couple of hunting families could be found in the whole country. In this way, if you accept this possible amendment, we will indeed go in the direction of finding possible compromises - in some articles this is not possible. This is one of the articles where it is possible to reach greater compromises, but in particular if these are two, three, four families in the whole country, they will make an effort at that time to obtain additional membership from interested parties willing to carry out this activity within the hunting family, which actually also has hunting grounds in their territory. Therefore, I believe that this amendment is very important, in this direction, that these issues, which have been in the past and which now bear the burden of this relationship, are very important and which could also be addressed by one of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on the three amendments and the 26th. I am opening the debate on Article 29 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to this Article. Mr. Sušnik, then Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u277	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I would like to say that this is the last key article in our conviction, which should be written in a slightly more defined form. Above all, I am referring here to the seventh indent, where we should get more expression from the owners of agricultural land and forests. It is proposed that the allocation of funds from the fund, where concessions are obtained, which, according to the legislative proposal, are left to the preparation of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food in cooperation with the Institute for Forests and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers of Slovenia, be too loose. We believe that this does not satisfy the owners of agricultural land and forests, and therefore we have prepared an amendment proposing that these funds be distributed as a percentage, as indicated. In particular, 50% of the concessions collected would go to the owner of agricultural land, 30% to the Republic of Slovenia for the financing of public service in the field of governance, or that part of the forest institution relating to the production of all forms of hunting and management plans, and 20% of these funds would belong to local communities. In addition, we have one addition to the fact that in the concession fee, which is referred to here as an individual hunting ground, which should not be less than 10 per cent of the annual income from the sold game after the sentence of the fifth indent of Article 29, which is not higher than 50 per cent of the annual income from the sold game - here we would like to add or I think it would be appropriate to add 'and the confiscated trophies' because, last but not least, the trophies are also a source of income from the hunting ground. In particular, I would like to point out that the concessionaire, in this case of the hunting family, this amendment has absolutely nothing to do with, in fact, this amendment, in our deep conviction, only in some way satisfy the owners of agricultural land and forests. I also agree with the statements made by my predecessor, I think that Mr Juban has said that these concession fees will be very different, depending on the nature of the hunting grounds, so that they will be extremely small or not, by individual fishing grounds. However, it is essential in this regard that, by such a way of dividing the concession fee collected in a special fund to large owners, larger owners of agricultural land and forests, they should be able to transfer this levy or this participation, to these 50% of the concessions collected, as their contribution or to leave as their contribution to the hunting family, where they exercise their hunting rights as a priority on their ownership of the agricultural land or forest. I think that this solution would be very good in order to remove that last dilemma, yet another final observation that this law has received in order not to take account of the ownership of agricultural land. I agree that there is a way of dividing, as is also envisaged, that this option can also be reached. However, this option is not written in the law, it is not written in this 29th Article dealing with concession fee, and I am convinced that, once the seventh indent of this Article has been amended and supplemented as we have proposed to take a major step forward in the search for compromises, towards the satisfaction of the owners of agricultural land, it would ultimately mean that the law would be more acceptable and better in its application and, last but not least, would allow normal hunting activities, especially for hunters and the implementation of their efforts to further preserve nature and wildlife management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u278	Thank you very much. In the order of your word. Mr. Rokavec, Mr. Sok and Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. I think that it would make sense to support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, not because I believe that it would be entirely good, but because it would be possible to correct some of the things in Article 29, even on other indents, by the third reading. I mean, I think it's designed as it is, inadequate. Why? Because the concession fee in paragraph 5 is set at between 10% and 50%. In the third paragraph, when it speaks of the basis for the calculation of the concession fee, it is said that this is an annual plan for the recovery of certain species of game for hunting, taking into account the resulting discharge, the damage suffered by game, the biotechnical and biometeorative work carried out. If such a provision remains, it will be a provision to promote a higher basic stock of game and a provision to encourage each hunting family to reach the maximum quota to pay damage after the game. The State must clearly ensure that damage to the wild must be paid in such a manner and so on. It's paid by the guy who works for the hunts. I'll talk more about that at Article 55. But the question is that, with the provision of Article 29, we will produce a large bureaucratic concessionaire for each individual hunting family or hunting ground for each year. The law clearly does not determine who will do this, or will the institution, if it will be an institution, then we will come back next year with a proposal also to the National Assembly to ensure that additional resources are provided to ensure that this service performs this task. I think the concession should be low. I basically advocate the principle that concessions must be low. And if we set a fixed 10%, it won't be a problem. This will also eliminate any, but also the reproduction of a bureaucratic apparatus that will account for the procedure for each hunting family individually. On the other hand, it is this trend that has been discussed all the time. In fact, the trend of the overriding basic stock of game and, on the other hand, the issue has paid off the damage caused by the game. Therefore, I think that it would make sense for the amendment to be supported, not because it would agree with the proposed content as a whole, but in order to correct this article by the third reading, in the sense that it would be more efficient, rational and that it would not also trigger the ground for the services that will carry out this activity for the country to know that this concession income will not be significant, we must already know that, in the future, they have significantly more spent on the calculation of the concession fee for all hunting families or hunting organisations in the country as the country will receive money from that title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u281	The solutions in this law are about that. The fisheries concession is awarded by the government, the limits of the hunting areas of the government, the fisheries with a special purpose of setting up the government and the hunting grounds of the government. While, in order to allocate funds, according to what colleague Juban has to say, it is extremely low that, in fact, it should be decided by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. So, a very fine solution is legal in this law. What is somewhere in terms of positive solutions will be done by the government, where something is expected and where the requirements will be, and there is the Ministry of Agriculture that is responsible. So, I congratulate you for such solutions in marriage, they are brilliant. Now, if the law does not answer some basic questions, then, of course, such a law is empty, and if it really does apply what we wrote about the way in which funds are allocated from the fund will be prepared by the Ministry, in cooperation with the institution, and so on, then I fear that those 250 tolars, as previously said, should be the transfer of the concession fee per hectare, if I have correctly understood my colleague Juban, would be too little for the work of all these services that you have done under this law or you will establish them. It is likely then that the state will be able to add something to it if it wants the law to work in this way. So, we in New Slovenia are taking a stand, and we have already made about the same amendment in the first reading, but we did not renew it later because it was unwilling to accept it. We are in favour of writing down this cut of funds from this fund, which, of course, is intended to pay the burden of agricultural land and forests, and we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u283	I sincerely believe that this is a total misunderstanding of this article, because otherwise there would be no defending this amendment in this way. Look. All right, let's leave this aside so that this law does not deal with confiscated trophies and treat them in the way that they should, because it should be determined, evaluated, done some new story, what is worth and immediately thereafter, in the context of existing activities, I think those who have already done so are doing best, but when we are talking about the allocation of funds, or the collected concession fees. Look, you must have been reluctant to play a role in reducing the participation of landowners and forests in the concession fee. If you say that it should only be 50% for land and forest owners, from the concession fee collected, then of course you deny the 7th point, which says that this fund is formed from this title and, of course, if you say that it is 30% about the country, 20% of the local communities, but you have virtually everywhere where the fisheries are called dotted or supplemented municipalities. And if this money, this 20% goes into the budget of the municipality and this is going to be included in the so-called appropriate spending, then in fact we took 20% of the concession fee from an address that would purposely go to compensate for the land burden, and we put it in a hole where one way or another the state would have to ensure that this is an appropriate spending. It's incomprehensible to me, and please don't work, I'll say, damage to that kid, as you say, damage to landowners because of the burden he's talking about. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? No, no, but the basic matter is quite clear. Of course, you can insist on that. Maybe I even like this thing better, because in this case, absolutely 30% of this country will get it. However, in the case of what is enshrined in the basic article, it may be possible that the State will not receive any of this because, given the estimated damage and environmental burden, 100% of these resources will have to be allocated to this fund. What is more, the money that the minister of the ministry can confirm, which they now devote to some of the burdens of this environment because of the savagery, that we will have to give something from the budget in order to cover all these things. That is why, despite this well-intentioned amendment, I do not really understand it. But Mr. Sok is a very cunning man. Did you hear what he said? He says, "The government will, the government will, the government will...," and, "and the forest office." However, it will intentionally release an agri-agricultural chamber representing the owners with whom the ministry and the institution are to agree. I mean, I believe he was a lapsus and he forgot, but apparently we're talking from some assumption, for God's sake, you're some lowlife who's trying to get the owners somewhere you want to get the congregations out of the country. But I tell you, Mr Sok, the country comes from me, from you, from Peter and Paul, the citizen, and together we are this country. It is not a country up there from the god of the day where we would say it is a state - of course it is a state of stepmother in any case, but it is ours, because we have nothing else. And it is therefore right that when we somehow destroy these things or make fun of them, how stupid the suggestions that we made, then you quote the entire sentence, where you absolutely also suggest, at the wishes of many owners and stakeholders, we have written this in particular in this article. And that's all I'm asking you to take into account, and I believe it would take too long to list the agri-agricultural chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Sok Replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u285	In fact, Mr Anderlich, you're acting like, I don't know, Sun King Ludvik XIV, who explained with a stick in his hand: the country is me. And when you mention the agri-agricultural chamber yes, because of your good looks, of course, you've included them to cooperate. How they will cooperate is now another issue. The fact that you did not take part in the drafting of the law with the agri-agricultural chamber is evident because they said so themselves. Neither did you cooperate with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, nor did the Minister say so himself. On the same day that you declared or Minister Kopač came and said that the government had unanimously adopted this law, on the same night Minister Booth said in his reports that the Ministry disagreed with such a concept of law. And since this ministry is a department of department, I could say that you are also very loyal. You kind of bypassed what would belong to this ministry, and then you introduced the matter that way. In fact, you want to bypass owners with this law, and you have added a function, I don't know, to a statistician who will, of course, be able to try to influence with some of his opinions. But the impact will not actually have any effect, because, as I said, the government grants concessions, the government sets up management areas, the government establishes fisheries with a special purpose and the government establishes fisheries. So the government, of course, if the fair government can listen to the owners' representatives, given the experience we have, of course we know that this government will not do so. Of course, the good news is that the government changes from time to time, unfortunately we do not know when this will happen in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u286	Thank you very much. In order, as you have said, it will be easier for you: Mr Juban, Mr Rokavec, Mr Vizjak and Mr Kremjar. Mr. Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u287	When I counted the time reserved for this point, I counted about 5 hours, it looks like we're going to burn this time 5 hours thoroughly; something with productive discussions and something to paint people. And in this article, this is typical. Look, the talk is that Article 29's proposal gives rise to terrible red tape. But if we accept the amendment to point 7, it will be the most rational solution. Let's compare. Article 29 is the product of these infamous proponents and the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. And exactly the 7th and 8th points are the result of this, Comrade Rokavec. Amendment, then let's go to the amendment. And the amendment changes point 7. If Article 7 is so sweet, Frank, please, I listened to you, you listen to me, because it's important to you too. Otherwise, I respect your thinking. If we change the 7th point, which is in the composition of the collective article 29 and the expensive article 29, we add the amended point 7 when we share from the fund the resources of the Republic of Slovenia, the local communities and land owners, which will be 350 thousand, or there is no additional bureaucracy here, which is in horrendous numbers. But more importantly, if this really happens, then the numbers I'm talking about come true. If we actually distribute these funds as proposed by the amended 7th point, then these landowners will get 250 tolars per hectare. What did we give them? Those things, I don't know how many, 150, with a few thousand acres, they'll get first. Those who have four hectares on average in this country will receive a jury for the whole farm. But it's not people painting. Here this fund, some fund is, I don't promise much of it, but it's still a fund that can be made of. And I think that this solution is less bureaucratic and better, and we still have some solutions that are important in this law, and I will not support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Sir Here's your jacket.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u289	Thank you for your word. Mr. Juban, everything's nice and well, you're the only one who sold fog to this choir. Points 7 and 8 are indeed the product of the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party. I've been talking about paragraphs 3 and 5, paragraphs 29, before. I said that I do not agree with the content of the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, but that it should be accepted in place. Then I told you why. In place, so that by the third reading, we can eliminate the insufferable confusing concept of calculating the concession fee, which will result in a large bureaucratic apparatus and spend a lot of money, probably spend even more money than the country will receive from the concession. This is a key issue of my concern in my debate. That is why I have also proposed that it would make sense to support the amendment, not from this title, to agree, because I am holding to the view that it makes sense that landowners are the only ones entitled to partial refund of concessions, because by organising the hunt, the State has partly restricted their ownership right. This is the key issue and also the key requirement that is likely to be made possible by landowners if the state clearly identifies and identifies wild game as state property and that hunting rights are national. Therefore, the owner of the land, agricultural land or forest land, solely by my assessment, is entitled to the refund of the part of the concession. But I do have a problem when I read this article 29, how it will be implemented in practice. That is why I have suggested that it would make sense to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u291	Thank you very much. I did not intend to make an announcement, but the Slovenian Democratic Party has proposed this amendment for this purpose, because it essentially supports the concept followed by the proposaler and is supported by the government. This is that the wildlings have just left the country and have been granted hunting rights by the state and are being carried out by hunting families. That's what we support. But there is one symbolism in this amendment. One symbolism of finding a minimum compromise, only with those owners of these lands that I think must be mentioned at some point. See, the division of Slovenia into such small plots will cause us to talk here about very small numbers belonging to an individual, this has already been mentioned. And I can't agree that this is about some administration. For, according to my assessment today, hunting families know for themselves how much their annual income is from the sold game, because they keep records, because they must, not least, because of the regulations of the second salary. And I think that the calculation of such a concession fee is not the result of any, I don't know what bureaucracy and the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party is precisely this direction, that this is just a possible point of contact between these different interests that appear in this law. Therefore, perhaps a percentage may also be a matter of discussion in the third reading. However, I cannot imagine how the 7th point will be implemented to create a specific fund for the selected concessions, which is intended to pay for the burden of agricultural land and forests after the wild. I ask you kindly to explain to me how this is to be imagined and how it is imagined that this will be done by those who are supposed to distribute the funds below or who are supposed to determine how the funds will be allocated. I think that this amendment is going in the direction of searching for one, I would say, at least minimal handing, including landowners, who will not be enriched by it, the state will not lose any of this, because the sixth paragraph makes it very clear that the concession charge is the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget. And when Mr Anderlič said that this matter would drown in some municipal budgets. Yes, how it will only drown in the state budget, the revenue of which is, of course, this concession fee. I am even more concerned about this matter, and therefore, of course, there is the purpose and reason of the amendment tabled and I think it is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Well, I think it's exactly what it says, like my buddy Rokavec wanted to write, and it's right to write it. The 7th point suggests that a specific fund is being set up from the concession fee collected, which is intended to pay the burden on agricultural land and forests by game. It says, very clearly. And it also says very clearly what you want to bring in all the time, and I think it's also right to write about who decides who does it, who does it, and who will eventually say that it is - also the owners. Again it is very clear, the agricultural-land chamber of Slovenia. So exactly what you want is written inside and whatever else of course means a departure from this basic idea of yours. That's what it says. That's what I read. I don't know what he thinks. I can just read what he says. And if we accept that, it will be as it is written, it can be no different. And it's right that it's written that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u294	Thank you. Mrs. Lydia Majnik, then Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Today, all the time, throughout all the articles, there is actually a problem of reparation. Although we will talk about this in one of the following chapters, we will also touch on this in each article. So let me come by myself. I don't want you to think about it, so I'm going to give you some facts. Article 55, entitled 'Definition of damage', states in point 7: 'The Government shall lay down more precise criteria for defining all types and methods and criteria for determining their height'. We already have extensions and implementation of this. So this is not a problem that the country would not be paying attention to now through and through financial incentives. Thus, for example, in the 2004 budget for investing in private, I stress the private forests of almost 600 million tolars. The funds are allocated for both care, rehabilitation, preventive protection and forest roads. The budget also has two specific items, namely, for the maintenance of the living environment of wildlife in private forests, where funds of 22.4 million are planned, and for compensation for damage against protected game, 40 million. It is true that these figures are not sufficient to pay for all the damage, but it is true that most of the damage to the financial capacity has so far been paid by the hunting families themselves. As it is true that the agricultural damage reduction programme is a permanent task both of the Ministry and of the Government, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. Under this programme, the draft amending budget for 2004 contains the following tasks: for the first time, the establishment of a mutual insurance scheme for plant production with the envisaged extension in the field of livestock; for the second time, the establishment of a risk fund for agriculture and for the third time, the provision of budgetary resources for the regression of the 50 % premium. In all three systems, the principle of solidarity is more than demonstrated. The State, therefore, provides for the establishment of a mutual agricultural insurance company which is expected to operate in 2004 and which is intended for private farmers the resources necessary for its establishment. To establish the company and to cover the organisational and other costs incurred at the beginning of the business, as well. In parallel with this new insurance company, it is also envisaged that a risk-based agricultural fund should be set up to a certain amount of annual budget appropriations and a certain proportion of insurance premiums. In addition to direct payments, the country is also planning to set up an insurance company on its own, to supply the risk fund budget and to repress the insurance premiums 50%. Isn't this concession part of the budget fee so that the state can carry out these tasks as well? Like my colleague Anderlich said, the country isn't up there. From somewhere this country has to get money to create it, too. Therefore, the evidence that the property’s damage to the wild is not true of its owners. Therefore, there can be no reason for any opposition to the adoption of the law. To all others, only demagogies or cheap points could be called in some individuals. Indeed, the facts are as I mentioned them and can be checked by anyone in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u296	Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Look, I'm going to allow myself again -- I said this was one of the last articles we talked about. The concession fee shall be drawn up after all the damage settled, the whole contribution to the fisheries and all that the operator must do is do so and may justify investing in the fisheries. On the basis of this, a concession fee is formed, which may be as high as in paragraph 5 above, between 10 and 50% of the annual income from the game sold and we added the trophies seized. I don't think you understand what we want with this. Once again, the Slovenian Democratic Party supports the basic guidelines of the law. We would like to adopt a law that will allow for the normal implementation of hunting activities for as many of our hunters as possible. At the same time, however, we are convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Institute for Forests and the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber have virtually no role to play in preparing this law. We simply cannot believe and trust that we would then properly distribute such a concession to form a fund to pay the burden of agricultural land and forests. We can't believe it. I think that, in this Article 7, there must be a clear message to landowners that, according to our proposal, the matter can also be discussed, at least 50% of the payment, which will be directly linked to the size of this agricultural land. This is, in our opinion, a solution that will allow for the normal implementation of hunting in the Republic of Slovenia. Unless we write and express by law what extent of the concession, regardless of the damage caused on that plot, someone can expect from some area that is written in the cadastral hunting grounds. Each other solution will be bad and will lead to severe conflicts between landowners and between those who will be given to manage a hunting ground, which is a hunting family with hunters. And it will happen that our hunters will be prevented from hunting. What then, with the concern of nature, what will happen to the management of the wild in the future, we just can't imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u298	Thank you. I can conclude the debate under Article 29. Thank you. We are moving on to the 41st Article and amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u299	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the amendment to Article 41, which is part seven of the Act entitled "Types of Wildlife and Their Management" from Articles 38 to 50. In this chapter, a number of articles have been deleted in relation to the first reading in order to comply with the nature conservation law. I have already informed the government or the competent ministry in general that they should consider the proposal of the fisheries union of Slovenia for the classification of a large cormorant and grey herring as species and that it may be prepared in the amendment form for this treatment. The deletion of articles referring to species of game and hunting goods and to the provision of government allocations, such as Article 81 of the Nature Conservation Act, regulates the protection of plant and animal species, constitutes a significant improvement in the law compared to the basic text. And such cases when amendments improve the text of the law are quite something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u300	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate under Article 41 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 46, where two amendments, once the Slovenian National Parties and once the LDS Club are tabled. Mr. Beumann has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u301	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The amendment to Article 46 tries to introduce falconry as a way of hunting in Slovenia. Of course, it is necessary to say that falconry has no tradition in these places, given that in the past the falcons have been hunted by higher layers, nobility and so on. The falconry tries to introduce and takes on practically a handful of people, and it is imperative to know what falconry is and what kind of hunting it is. The falconry is a way of hunting from the falcons, which are deliberately consumed in order to be effective in hunting. That's in other words for me to torture animals. An unethical act, and I don't think I can accept it as such. Not to mention that falconry is also the most common cause of theft from nests. And it is not possible, after all, to prevent the killing of endangered and protected species by such a means of hunting. International animal protection organisations are also fighting falconism, and I certainly will not support this amendment alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u302	Thank you. Sonja Areh has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u303	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to Article 46 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act, which would regulate the area of falsification by law. According to known information, there is a greater interest in resource management in Slovenia from day to day. Hence, the desire to regulate such a way of hunting is all the more important. Above all, we must stress that falsification is an activity that is neither prohibited nor permitted. Soccer fishing was legally allowed until 1960, so the proposed legislation does not constitute legalisation in our country, but in particular the possibility of a well-coordinated sub-legislation. The falcons are in a very well-organized relationship. They shall be linked to other related organisations responsible for the protection of nature. The tradition of falconing is preserved by the Slovenian Alliance for Sokolarism and the Protection of Birds Eating. In Slovenia, people who are highly qualified and satisfy the high demands of falsification are engaged in falsification. The falconing union nurtures, protects and a falcon school for hunting and other useful tasks. At airports, for example, for the safety of passengers, they are driven away by flocks of birds. In addition, they prevent pigeons, disease vectors, from food storage. falconing with controlled implementation cannot endanger the game that will be hunting, but it can make sure that birds are better acquainted with bites and their lives. The association for falconing with its operation also cares about understanding, informing and positive public opinion on birds bites. In the light of the above, we believe that the legal regime for falsification is essential and I propose that you accept the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u304	Thank you. Ivan Kramberger has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In support of this amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, I would like to add a few more thoughts. Actually, I learned about falconing. See, in the view of the international Union for the conservation of nature, falconing is somehow an internationally accepted concept of sustainable use of nature. But falconing is marked as an ecologically acceptable form of hunting. We must say that it is legal in 13 countries from 15 European Union. Buddy Beumann, I probably didn't make this up, but it's clearly written. In other candidate countries, this form of hunting is common. Our Slovenian falcon and bird protection association is also a member of this association. And I see no reason not to continue this 800-year-old tradition in Slovenia. Finally, with a smaller interval, this type of fishing has been carried out in Slovenia since 1960. This is currently being done on the basis of a decision issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I think it is now an opportunity to write this matter down in law. Personally, it doesn't bother me that this was once a high-layer hunt, but anyway, it's a way, it's a tradition. Even now we have high layers that are being treated a little differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u306	Thank you. Once again, Comrade Beumann, then Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u307	Thank you very much. I'm really sad that everything can be sold for nature protection, even the unethical form of hunting. Of course, I know that falconry is a historically very old way of hunting and so on, but it's unethical for me. You know, even wars have happened throughout the history of mankind, and they're unethical and we're fighting them. That's my argument and I have no other argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u308	Thank you. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u309	These arguments by Mr Beumann are of course arguments, but they do not seem to have much weight. If we go to debate from this point of view, then we can call any hunt unethical, even if you shoot an animal with a bow or with an arrow and so on and have company. In these very days, we have received a lot of appeals that advocate banning hunting. What that would mean, I don't know, they probably don't know that either, but they're defending themselves for these ethical reasons. They say it's illegal. If you're talking about torturing animals, it's a pretty stretching concept. I can tell you that as a veterinarian. For example, battery-breathing chickens or all breeds where you have high animal concentrations could be referred to as animal torture, but animals are marked as things for human use. I have to say, I don't know much about this falcon. Many birds end each year in our Republic or in the territory of Slovenia. They're being killed by wild animals, cats and so on. What would be so unethical about it is unclear to me, but I know that this matter is extremely impressive and that many people are dealing with it. With the left hand like this, it probably wouldn't make sense, especially if we are allowed to do so now with the Ministry's decision. It is likely that if the law fails to do so, such a decision will be followed again. That's how I picture it. For this reason, it seems to me that it would make sense for us to put this into law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Can I conclude the debate after the first amendment to Article 46. And Comrade Beumann? No, no, no. Mrs. Nigga, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u311	Thank you so much for saying that. Because there is a lot of talk about falconing and what history it has and what tradition it is in Slovenian. In fact, this activity has been carried out by foreign nobility, but there are very few hunters and there is no great tradition. But if you look at the tradition in those European countries that you have already mentioned - I think there are 17 that actually have this legalized, this is actually an economic activity for them. About sustainable development, that's all. As they can tell, there is a very large area of bird eggs and that if this were to go at such a pace, it could endanger the entire species. Within five years, it may even happen that the species will actually be threatened and that we will once or will have to go to the European Parliament to protect this species. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u312	Thank you. Anyone else? Nobody. I conclude the debate following the first amendment to Article 46. I'm moving on to the second amendment of the LDS. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on both amendments and on Article 46. We are moving on to Article 47, which includes two amendments, the LDS Club of Parliament and groups of Members. Who wants a word? Bad boy. We will discuss both amendments at the same time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u313	Thank you very much. The content of Article 47 of our paragraph shall read as follows: in paragraph 1, paragraph 3 shall be amended to read "fishing game closer than 250 metres from residential, industrial and other facilities and 50 metres from railways or public roads, with the exception of forest, field roads or roads". Explanation: For safety reasons, a new limit should be set instead of a 50-metre limit, which will provide or prevent the least possible damage to people and property. The border around railways or public roads may remain unchanged. This is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The claims that this amendment does not allow for damage caused by game, since this right is restricted only in the hunting zone, are not valid. The State shall ensure that the damage caused by the game is reimbursed even outside the hunting grounds. This amendment also does not prevent the shooting of a beast, for example, a bear that endangers public safety in the village, as other regulations allow it. The same applies to wild glass. But I must say that I saw a tragedy live 15 years ago when the farmer was in his cornfield and his colleague, who was also a farmer, as well as a hunter and accidentally shot him to death. If such a law were then valid with a limit of 250 meters, this farmer would still be alive and well, and so he was buried. And then the hunters went to organize a hunting funeral, and they all shot twice, and then they went to the inn. The widow and daughter were crying out there. I must say, this is one of the more shocking stories of my life. That's why I plead that for greater security, the people of 50 meters are extended to 250 meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Jože Ashitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u315	Thank you very much. However, Comrade Yaš explained in a somewhat dramatic way this amendment, which was tabled by a group of Members. And I also believe that such things can happen. They happen in every human activity. As far as we know. There's very little hunting. But there are exceptional cases like this. I do not believe that this could not happen a thousand metres away from a house, because the problem is not because of the kind of tolerance that hunting is in, but how those who carry weapons and can threaten random or accidental visitors to a particular land are acting. However, I would like to point out that Article 10 of the Act already defines certain standards and defines what hunting and non-fishing areas are. These are all areas where hunting is permanently prohibited for natural reasons. These are the areas of settlements and settlements, public and private parks and cemeteries, such as gardens, gardens, orchards, trees, surrounded industrial buildings and so on. I think that Article 10 is much better and very accurate in determining what are the non-fishing surfaces. I believe even because the signatories of this amendment are some of the colleagues who have not participated so much in the formation and drafting of the law that they have even overlooked that we have specific areas where hunting is not allowed at all. Of course, to some extent the amendment is also understandable from the point of view of the inhabitants of the larger place, the larger village, the larger city. It is totally unacceptable, however, from some of the landscape features of Slovenia, when we have huge scattered settlements all over Slovenia and where farms are a few hundred meters apart and the settlements are very scattered. All of this would actually turn into a non-fishing area at the time of the adoption of this amendment, and this would also significantly reduce the size of fishing grounds in Slovenia. I believe that this amendment, which has certainly been carefully prepared by the Group of Members, and also for certain purposes, would not suggest acceptance in this consideration, but since the article will be open, it would probably be good to reconsider how to define more precisely or more precisely what Jáša Evilac is most concerned about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u316	Thank you. We'll go in a row, Mr. Rokavec, then Bebulj and once again Jaša Zląb.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u317	Thank you for your word. Well, I will support this amendment of Mr. Evil One. The fact is that we already know from experience that the 50m distance to the building or apartment house is significantly too small. We've already got quite a lot of stories here. One of these was also said by Comrade Zląbec, but the fact is that the amendment is going on. It also sets out more clearly the distance between the possibility of fishing in relation to the relation of railways or public roads, which is not defined anywhere in Article 47. However, Article 10, which speaks of non-fishing areas, is very general and speaks only of non-fishing areas, and Article 47 explicitly speaks of the prohibition of fishing. And the 50-metre distance to the apartment house, whether it's a divided area or it's a scattered area, is essentially too small a distance to be able to carry out safe hunting, regardless of whether it could cause any harm to humans or even danger to humans. That's a fact, we know that from experience. I mean, people were just running away from apartment houses from hunting balls that were swinging. These are everyday stories, they're not that mass, but they are. And we know, however we write down in this law, that we, as legislator, will bear responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u318	Thank you. Franz onion has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u319	Thank you very much for your word. I will also support this amendment, despite some smiling faces, when my colleague Rokavec mentioned that they were swinging bullets, but it was summers that were much more dangerous. And given what Comrade Zląbac said, I fully agree with the stories we Members have yet to say. In view of the fact that such a law was imposed by the applicant, I am convinced that the hunters cooperated. I'd protect myself with a safety belt like that 250 meters. You can imagine an urbanized village where some apartment houses are a little bit more out of the village towards the woods and fields that are actually in danger. I, as a hunter, would certainly support the matter. Maybe they're investors when they're preparing the marriage for that little thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u320	Thank you. Yasha Zląbet has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u321	In fact, you should be better than in this text. Actually, it's more complicated. Because animals are living creatures. Living creatures with the soul must therefore be treated with all due respect and love. There are a lot of people here who smile around here, and they think they're good Christians, but have you completely forgotten about Francis Asia? This last sentence, of course, applies to hunters. Hunters are the masters of animal life, hunters actually still live a valuable life in the old covenant. I hope they join the new covenant.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u322	Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u323	You have the opportunity to see that in LDS, there is no single mind that we hope to discuss each other differently, everyone else thinks and looks like that is how we will vote. I will not support this amendment. And the reason is as follows. Bullets are more dangerous than bolts, Comrade Onion, I believe, in my understanding. The law also defines which types of weapons may be used under this law for hunting purposes. And one is hunting, and the other is handling and using firearms. And apparently, here's where we got these two things mixed up. Maybe someone upstairs completely disagrees with my interpretation of this, but that's how I understand the matter. Here, those who defend the interests of farmers, we forget their interests, where they are in high-rise areas, which we are also constantly talking about, plants, orchards, vineyards, very close to economic courtyards and settlements, one even reaching into economic courtyards. And the parcels of these plantations are often less than 200 meters long. Of course, taking into account all the periods in which hunting is possible. We know where savages most often cause damage, that they are not in the forests, but in agricultural areas. Or we'll have wildlings within 250 metres of the plantations and no one will be allowed to shoot at these savages. Objects, roads and the like - our country is increasingly intertwined with roads. Except for those who are supposed to be exceptions, we're going to get areas where it won't be possible to hunt at all. And then, of course, pay for the damage, which will be even more complicated. Who's gonna be here to measure whether I'm really 250 meters away when I shoot so I don't come to court? A complete mess can arise, and I don't think it's a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u324	Thank you. Lydia Majnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u325	I would like to read only the first point of the preceding article, which says that game is being hunted in accordance with the provisions of this law, the principles of hunting justice, a species of game with suitable hunting weapons and missiles, and in a way that cannot endanger the life or health of people and so on. I would also like to read Article 5, which contains the meaning of the terms, which states that hunting, watching, stalking, inviting and waiting with the aim of seizing wild game or catching wild game alive and harvesting game and its parts. So, hunting isn't just shooting. I understand the fear that some of your colleagues here say they're shooting too close to the houses. But by respecting these two provisions, Articles 5 and 46, I think that both the rights of those who live and want to have peace are guaranteed, as are the rights and demands of those who are threatened by savages by their domestic animals, as are the interests of hunters, that savages follow, invite and lure back to their area, that is, the forest. Otherwise, a 250-metre belt that forbids any form of hunting can be a very dangerous solution. I would also like to draw attention to the provision covering public roads, forest roads and Polish roads. Most of the forest roads have become public roads as it connects two hamlets. And if we take that into account, then on roads that run 90 percent through a clean forest surface, we'll ban hunting. I don't think the point of this amendment has gone this way, but only to protect the danger or to put an end to the danger in the vicinity of the settlements. Therefore, in the third reading, such an amendment could be drawn up where it would be decidedly stated that the use of firearms in a belt was prohibited. Besides, I can't agree to ban hunting by the name of hunting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u326	Thank you. Anton Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u327	I will not support this amendment because it is impractical in practice or prohibits hunting in certain areas. In the environment from which I come, more than 50% of houses or residential buildings are closer than 250 meters from the forest. Personally, I have a house 50 meters from the forest where a hunter 200 meters in the woods knows where he is. In such a way, if I ironise a little, the Ministry of Agriculture will have to issue a decision to stop at a distance of 250 metres so that the hunter can kill him. Such decisions are lifeless and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u328	Thank you. Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u329	Thank you very much. I consider this amendment a repeat attempt to restrict hunting activities. See, while maintaining hunting grounds of particular importance and implementing such an amendment, we will reduce fishing opportunities and fishing opportunities so that this function loses all meaning. I think you have completely forgotten that in this law it clearly states who can engage in hunting, what psychophysical properties must be fulfilled by a person who is allowed to carry weapons under other legislation. Last but not least, you've forgotten the hunting ethics that our hunters cultivate. And to express such a degree of mistrust towards hunters in our hunting families is, to say the least, on the border of good taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u330	Ivan Kramberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Janez, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u332	Janez, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u333	Colleagues and colleagues! I think that colleague Jaša Zląbec here was really only under the inspiration he had previously described, tabled this amendment and received ten or eleven other signatories for it. I don't think we should accept this, because it's actually a problem in areas where population is scattered and hunting will be disabled there. Look, in the past, there have not been rare cases of foxes getting rabies in their backyards. Now, of course, that's less because it's systematically vaccinated with baits. And see how they could then confiscate or shoot wild game in the courtyard if they had a provision that you had to do so at a distance of 250 meters. So I don't think this solution is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u334	Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u335	Actually, my colleague Kramberger said what I was thinking. At times, it was from the fact that the animal had fallen ill of rabies near the settlement and, of course, had to be shot near the settlement. If such a thing were to be legalized, it would likely mean that if such a hunter did not want to violate the law, he must first get 250 meters away so that he could shoot him. Sometimes, perhaps a few years ago, such a provision came in handy because some hunters were very fond of shooting dogs that were more than 200 meters away from housing and many such dogs ended up under hunting rifles. This does not happen so often today because these things have changed. I think it's 50 meters enough, but I certainly can't agree with Mr. Evil, that Francis is an Asian man who called an animal brother and a sister that he thought animals had a soul. Honey, they have people. Animals don't have souls. Good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u336	French onion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Look. All this debate about this amendment, especially those who are defending property rights and hunting area in 2 000 hectares, or even less, is essentially contradictory to me in relation to the amendment tabled by Mr Jaša Zlběc and gives a sovereign right to the owner and provides him with at least some security in specific fisheries or for a special purpose, as I said before. In view of the position of my fellow Member, my fellow mayor, I would like to show him the following. If he knows the area of the Bloody Man, or Vassist Village, and of the Holy Ambroz and St. Lenart, where there are 500 weekenders, he ensures that every residential area is safely removed from some forests. That's not true. In the woods there are residential houses, weekends, including economic buildings, animal shelters and so on, and we need to ensure some security here. Give it up, gentlemen. I propose that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u338	Thank you. I can conclude the debate on these two amendments to Article 47. Thank you for your discussion. We are moving on to Article 48 and the amendment to the article tabled by the LDS. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 48 and the amendment. We are moving on to Article 52 and the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 52. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 52. We're moving on to Article 55. We have three amendments tabled here. I am opening a debate on all three amendments to Article 55. Anybody want a word? Comrade Sok, then Comrade Rokavec. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u339	Thank you for your word. The New Slovenia Group has tabled its third amendment to Article 55, paragraph 7. We propose that the seventh paragraph of this Article be amended, namely that the Government now lays down more precise criteria for determining the types of damage referred to in the transitional paragraphs of this Article and the methods and criteria for determining their level. Given that this law is designed to provide the criteria for damage and the allocation of funds from the Fund, as far as this fund is concerned, with the preparation of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is also one of the important functions in this law, which is intended for this Ministry. We propose that, in accordance with this Ministry, it should also be trusted to develop criteria for determining the types of damage and the method and criteria for determining the level of damage. It seems to us that these two matters are so closely linked that the government cannot decide on these criteria and criteria once and then direct the Ministry to provide funds. That's a logical comment from our point of view. I don't know if the proposalr had something else in mind, but it would make sense to balance these matters at least in this area in the law. Therefore, the person responsible for such damage also prescribes appropriate criteria and methods by which this damage is then assessed. For surely it is a responsibility without any power I could use that word and say it is a farce. Responsibility without power is a farce. And, of course, I suggest you support this amendment. We will also support both amendments of the Slovenian People's Party because we think they make sense and actually correct this 55th section of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u340	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u341	Thank you for your word. The Group will also support the amendment of New Slovenia, which specifies who on behalf of the Government is the one that prescribes a sub-legislative regulation. Nevertheless, we feel that the proposal for a solution to Article 55 as it is is is very bad. Very bad for owners of agricultural land and forests. Because he doesn't say anything. This article leaves a solution to the under-law regulation to be issued by the Government. Let me freshen up once again what was the basic proposal of Article 55. There, until payment for damage caused on agricultural land, the owner was entitled only after injury of more than 10%. As far as forests are concerned, there are 40 or even 75% of individual tree species. Article 55, as it is, does not say anything about the decision of the Board. This Article simply sets an additional fog. At the very least, what the Slovenian People's Party's Group expects and also requires you to do as the proponents to ensure that this law clearly ensures that all the damage that will be caused will also be paid. Second, to ensure clearly that this Article provides for the executioner for the payment of damages. Who vouches for payment? A hunting organisation where it has done hunting or the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the events that have taken place so far do not lead anywhere on this level. If an appropriate stock of game is not previously provided, the environment will result in significantly higher damage to agricultural land or forests. And that can't be left to the government. We don't believe you. Because even in this process of law is only one part of the government, the part that speaks and covers the preservation of nature conveys the Government's express opinion. However, the part that covers agriculture, which is most sensitive in the case of damage, is of course not involved. And in government procedure, fellows, I'm sorry, this procedure will also be promoted, simply by the majority. Therefore, at least it is necessary to ensure that Article 55 states that all damage caused on agricultural land and forests is eligible for reparation and that the guarantee of who is responsible for the payment of this damage is clearly laid down, whether by a hunting organisation or by the Republic of Slovenia. That's the minimum. Of course, we believe that the agricultural sector should be the one to set these criteria, which speak mainly of the definition of damage. This is the typical domain of the agricultural sector. This is not the whole government's domain in assessing damage. At least that much minimum, you must also give your dignity to the agricultural, forestry and nutrition sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u342	Thank you. I conclude the debate under Article 55 and the three amendments which have been tabled under this Article. We move on to Article 57, the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want a word? I conclude the debate on Article 57. We are moving on to Article 64. We have tabled an amendment to the LDS House of Representatives. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 64. We are moving on to the debate on Article 70 and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? A fellow onion. Thank you for concluding the debate on Article 70. We're moving on to Article 71. We have three amendments tabled here. I am opening a debate on all three amendments. Did you mean onion friend here? Yeah, and then Franz the Dryer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Of course, I support the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party. Here are the reasons that I have already mentioned in Article 7, and I have also referred at that time to Article 71 of this Law, or in particular paragraph 2. In which we propose to add the word to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, with the prior consent of the owners of land and local communities, a hunting ground has been awarded in an area where there are special or state fishing or fishing grounds to be carried out by hunting families. If this amendment is not supported, of course, this is a clear indication that, as we have discussed several times on individual amendments, it totally excludes local communities and, of course, landowners. I am sure that if, in this law, at least in some articles, there will be opportunities for both local communities and landowners, such a law in the Constitutional Court will have a poor journey to be re-examined in the National Assembly. Once again, I ask you, Members and Members of Parliament, to support this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u344	Thank you. Franz Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u345	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, in connection with our proposal to abolish Article 7 and indirectly abolish hunting grounds with a special purpose, we propose deleting Article 71. I have already said that this is one of the key dilemmas of the law, which forces us to do that, despite the fact that positive solutions are built into this law, we cannot support this law. Article 71 of the Act of 13 special purpose hunting sites. See, with the replacement of these hunting grounds, the implementation of hunting activities for our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, hunters and hunters is essential. The principle that landowners primarily exercise their hunting rights in the context and in the organised hunting family is being infringed in particular, which is also incorporated into this law. How will landowners who have their own land in special-purpose hunting grounds exercise their hunting rights? This will lead to the determination of the constitutional dispute in this law and, as a result, will exacerbate the situation in the area of wildlife management and hunting. Most importantly, however, the possibility of hunting in Slovenia will be limited. And that's very wrong. I appeal to the applicants to reconsider the fate of hunting grounds with special purpose. It is also time for these fisheries to be allocated to the management of hunting families in the form of selected concessionaires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u346	Thank you. You still have a bad minute at your disposal, Comrade Aloys Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u347	Thank you very much. She took five minutes from my chairman for restricting me to the debate. I think that when this law is passed, our government will be able to handle these matters for six months, as long as it is within the 71st time limit, only to deal with the law on hunting and game, because I do not know how many tasks this law will carry out if it can. Perhaps by the third reading the word "government" could be changed to the word "Ministry of Environment and Space" and then you could bypass the Ministry of Agriculture and thus save the fate of this law or bring things in the way you want. In the light of the debate at 7th Article, we will support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party in our parliamentary group and we think that the minimum would be in this article to settle this with the consent of the owners of agricultural land and local communities. Of course, we are not thinking about what Comrade Juban said today, so that each of the owners would give particular consent. They know where the owners are united, who represents them, and then who is the one who names the owners to give their consent. Certainly not every individual owner, it's a misunderstanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u348	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss these amendments to Article 71? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 71 and the amendments tabled to this Article. We are moving on to Article 72 and the amendments tabled by the Youth Slovenia Party. Godomir the Grandchild has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u349	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Here we propose that it be determined in concrete terms which is the public institution that is supposed to manage wild game and we propose that this is the Slovenian Forestry Institute, which is supposed to manage fishing for a particular purpose, because it already operates in the public interest, is competent, has trained personnel, also equipment and operates in the field of forestry, nature surveillance and hunting planning. We believe that it is unnecessary to re-create a new institution with new staff, with new officials and, of course, with additional costs for this country. That is why we propose that because we already have this institution and this is the Institute of Forests to take over these tasks and we also contribute or go in a direction that we have already drawn up with some other laws and thus save something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u350	Thank you. I don't see any more desire for a debate. I conclude the debate on Article 72 and the amendment tabled to this Article. I am moving on to Article 78 and to the amendment of the LDS. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 78. I am moving on to the debate on Article 81 and the two amendments tabled. Anybody want a word on this article? Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u351	Thank you for your word. The LDS would really ask the proponents what they had in mind under Article 9, paragraph 81, which states: "The assets owned by the Hunting Union of Slovenia by Sneznik d.d. and Kompas Peskovci d.o.o. and is located in the area of current breeding grounds referred to in the preceding two paragraphs of this Article, the Government may buy out by direct contract at fair market value or at agreed contractual value." I think this doctrine may be very controversial. We know by what procedure the State can buy or sell, a judicial valuation is made and this is not the key to determining the appropriate price. A diction like this is set in the direction of a suitable friendly positive arrangement. I believe that in fact - here I would ask the secretariat for legislation that Members and Members can only pour a cleaner wine before a decision is made, but this is the right and intermediate. I believe that such as it is written creates a lot of doubts, as well as the assumption that there may be a possibility of a friendly, better solution to the contract price to buy this property than otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u352	Thank you. Who wants to talk about this, about Article 81 and the amendments? If they want, they'll raise their hand and give an answer. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. I would suggest that, if possible, we get the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Affairs Service on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u354	Just a minute. I'm going to move on to paragraph 82. In the meantime, we'll check this procedural of yours. Article 82 and the two amendments to Article 82. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 82 and the two amendments which have been tabled in Article 82. We are moving on to the debate on Article 84 and the amendment tabled by the LDS. Who wants a word? Nobody. I also conclude the debate on Article 84. I am moving on to Article 84a and the amendment of the LDS Club to this Article. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I also conclude the debate. I apologize. [[...]] French onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u355	The amendment itself and also the article make it clear that for certain offences, those who are also subject to sanctions under this Article will be punished. I'm also asking the proposer here. Because it is unlikely that until today we have not considered that the number of hunters - in Slovenia there should be 22,000 - represents one division after all. 22 battalions. When I was a soldier in Tolmin, the battalion counted 500 soldiers, not 1,000. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If it's 22,000 people, it's 22 battalions. Is it prescribed for them, given that? [[...]] Okay, thank you very much. I just took a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u356	We have also discussed an amendment that is not tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, so that this debate is irrelevant. I'm going back to the only article that's not finished. Article 81, and I ask for a few minutes to receive a possible response from the legal and legislative service. You agree that when we vote and when we come to this vote, we will have this answer to your procedural question by then. With this - except for this Article - I would therefore conclude the debate on the articles and amendments that have been tabled. Following an agreement on how to hold this meeting of the National Assembly, we have reached the end of the debate. I'm setting a 15-minute break. Then we'll go to the vote. It's 10:44. It is said that at 11: 00 a.m., we meet in the hall and continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u357	Colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. You'll understand that I'm going to ask for your attention in the first place. We're moving on to decision-making. I will make this decision clear enough so that it will always be clear what we decide. But I'm going to ask you to be kind enough not to interfere with this process. We'll move on to point one first. Before we decide on the proposal for a decision to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to the question by Dr Andrej Bajuk on the credibility of the country's financial performance data, I will ask you to check your voting facilities. First, please, do it! Can you check your voting device so there won't be any misunderstandings later if any of them don't work? Is there any objection to moving on to our first decision? I see there are no contracts. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andre Bajuk about the credibility of the country's financial performance data." Can we make a decision? My friend Dr. Bayuk wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What is it, exactly? Since we have a constitution, the National Assembly has not yet been familiar with the balance sheet of the assets of the Slovenian State. It's a constitutional category. The Slovenian government is citing. Mr Minister, then Minister Rob explained that the balance sheets had already been made so that he might send them. But we never got that. Mr President Janez Drnovšek said he would send a written reply. There's no answer yet. They still insist on one and the same transfer and refer to the Public Finance Act, which decides only that the actual balance sheet is not part of the final account. However, this is not in any way a permit for the Slovenian government to overlook what the whole world knows. Dear colleagues and colleagues, accounting is not some nuclear physics. The world has known this since 1494, when an Italian monk invented a two - stage book. In our country, however, we had to wait and demand that the Court of Auditors, in its ninth year of work, actually take a look at this and see what this was all about? Yes, it revealed that what they presented to him was nothing that they could not even give an opinion on. This matter - respected colleagues and colleagues - must be discussed by the National Assembly. If there is no wealth balance, then things can happen that we read about in the newspaper. For example, Mr Minister of Health cannot explain what happened to Trnovo Hospital.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u359	Finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u360	Since it wasn't written anywhere, no one answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u361	Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u362	The National Assembly cannot carry out its duties. That is why we must have this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u363	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Please, in a row.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u364	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I will vote against this decision. At a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control, which we had a few days ago and at which we also dealt with the accounts for 2002, it was very clear. The Public Finance Act, however, lays down a provision for the creation of a balance sheet. The law on the implementation of the budget, which we also adopt every year, does not have this provision. This is why a consolidated balance is also held at the level of the labour country, which also provides an answer to this question. I will therefore vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u365	Thanks, buddy Groschel. My friend Diaci, then my friend Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u366	Thank you for your word. Each company has to make a balance of success and balance sheet under the Company Act. I believe that so far there have been no suitable grounds for this balance sheet to actually be made. I think it's time we actually set this up at the state level. Because if every single clue can make its own inventory, a list of resources, I think we could also set it up at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u367	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u368	Thank you very much. State finances crawl through the fingers of some and flow into the insatiable throats of some. I think it is high time that we draw the line from the beginning of our independent country and count it down and count it down and see what's left and where it went. In short, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u369	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u370	I will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision. Not because this is not required by Mr Grošelj, the law on the implementation of the budget. Our fellow Member, the President of New Slovenia, has asked this question several times. The Constitution requires that. Paragraph 146 of the Constitution requires this. If we have talked today about how we must respect constitutional decisions, how we must respect the Constitution, then let us accept this proposal and hold a debate in the National Assembly in order to finally get this balance sheet in the country. Not that the ministers, the presidents of the governments, promise us that, but never deliver. I don't know why we should vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u371	The National Assembly will now move on to a decision. My friend Tanko, he still wants it? Please. I'm sorry, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. The Court of Auditors’ audit report makes it clear that most budget consumers have not harmonised the annual statement of claims and liabilities. Nor did it reconcile the accounting situation of the assets and liabilities with the actual situation. As a result of this audit finding, the Court of Auditors could not obtain evidence of ownership, derogations and completeness of the balance sheet on 31.12., for completeness, for intangible long-term assets, tangible fixed assets, long-term capital injections, long-term operating claims, claims on assets and so on. The Court of Auditors also found that the computer support provided by the Government is inadequate and does not ensure that the balance sheet is accurate. Article 146 of the Constitution also provides that each year the government must issue a balance sheet. I think there is absolutely no need for a government to finally once, for the first time to fulfil this obligation, and to present these balance sheets to the national assembly. In short, it is clear that the government does not even possess the inventory of its assets. I think it's time we got this one time. This proposal for a decision should therefore also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u373	Now I really don't see any more hands. By moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. May I have your attention, please? We are voting on the proposal to hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to the question put by his fellow Member, Dr Bajuk. Please, let's vote. 79 present, 28 for and 51 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 51.]] The decision was not adopted. In line with the proposal, colleague Jelinčič will now decide on a proposal for a decision to hold a discussion at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister mags. Anton Rope's question on his question of arms trafficking. Can we make a decision? Comrade Jelinčič, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The arms trade is still a stain in the history of the Slovenian state. I think it's high time we clear this stain and get it out of our history. The money from the guns went to a lot of places. Some even say that it is also flowing through the SIB bank. I think today, when we decide whether to open the debate or not, we decide who wants to cover things up and who wants to expose them. I think that - we will see how Members, colleagues and colleagues decide - those who vote for the debate will clearly show that they are innocent. Another vote against will leave a strong suspicion that he is involved in the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u375	I'm asking for peace in the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace. The National Assembly will now move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 75 present, 38 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 33.]] This Decision is adopted. We have a proposal for a decision proposed by my colleague, the Grandchild. The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. Booth's question on the question of sales of land and forests in 2004 and 2005. Friend of the Grandchild
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u376	Thank you for your word. At least what I would expect from the Minister of Agriculture is such a proposal he made and also an answer. I therefore proposed that this should be discussed, because the answer or its proposal would be diametrically contrary to the conclusions of the National Assembly, which had determined that the land owned by the State would increase significantly rather than divest itself. By denationalisation, the share of state land and forests decreased to a low 20%. I do not think that a reduction in this share is appropriate. I therefore propose that a serious debate be held on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u377	We will now decide on this proposal for a decision. May I have your attention, please? We're voting! 78 present, 28 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that this proposal for a decision has not been adopted. This concludes yesterday's 1st agenda item, parliamentary questions and initiatives. We move to point 2 - this is for re-decision on the Law on the Enforcement of the 8th Point of the Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll move on to a decision on that law. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a majority of Members and Members of the Assembly must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that law. We can decide. We're voting! I'm breaking up! I didn't see you. Explanation of the vote by Comrade Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u378	In the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself, I personally advocate equality before the law and, finally, that all citizens in this country be treated in a dignified manner. I have before me the conclusion of a community of pension and disability insurance that has fallen to Jerne Molan in the war for Slovenia and has granted his children a pension because of an accident at work. The shame of our country is that we didn't know how to take care of the status of the people who gave their lives to our country. This decision has not yet been replaced. This man has always had a status as if he had died from an accident at work. Unfortunately, we are now dealing with completely different matters in a completely different way. Let us once have the same approach to all our people, especially those who have given the most for our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u379	My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u380	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is, sometimes the devil hides in detail. We have heard some such details in today's debate. Look, I know a lot of people who didn't demonstrate with banners in front of parliament and who lived here their whole lives in Slovenia and didn't respond to the invitation they had to arrange their status because they didn't understand because they were illiterate because they were old because they were ignorant. In the local community of Gradnje there are quite a few cases of our locals being erased. The mother book was written elsewhere in Croatia. They lived quietly, erased, without citizenship. The last resident of the village of Byanti died recently, a benevolent mother, I could say, over 80 years old, wiped out. There's something else. They also require the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u381	A fellow cremator.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u382	Thank you very much, President. I myself, as I have already supported the adoption of this law for one very simple reason. I will not list any such or other decisions. For a very simple reason. I am deeply convinced that the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. It's all about that and nothing else. Right now. It's the rule of law. It's about respect for this. My right as an individual, a citizen and a Member is to think differently from the judges of the Constitutional Court. It is my duty as a citizen and a Member to respect these decisions. I think that Parliament should do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u383	My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u384	Thank you, President. I will vote in favour of the law, just as I discussed the last time we passed the law. Because I was in this room when, unfortunately, we created conditions for the situation that later arose. I will vote in favour of the law because at least part of the injustice suffered by the beneficiaries at the time of Demos' rule is being remedied. I will vote in favour of the law because these people received an invitation to a vote in Slovenia a week before the plebiscite, in the same way as full-year citizens and citizens born in Slovenia, and after all of them, the majority of Demos and opposition Members, the guarantee that the new independent and independent Slovenia will be respectful of all their rights enjoyed in it within the federation at that time. But later, unlike here, they were born in a different position. In a situation where citizenship had to be asked for all the inconveniences that followed and other consequences. Even the ones we're trying to fix today. So, before plebiscite, solemn and consensual vows of equality, non-discrimination. After plebiscite, however, the distinction between those born here and those who were born automatically and those who had yet to obtain it. I was among the Members and Members of Parliament who wanted to prevent such a situation. I'm afraid we stayed in the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u385	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u386	Thank you. If my colleagues civilise themselves and vote in favour, I will remain uncivilised and I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u387	I'm a colleague of Mrzel's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u388	My people, my beloved. I've been following this topic closely. I read carefully and listened to all of you who spoke. There's no reason that because of the injustices that have occurred and have been done to my forerunner, I can answer that, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u389	There's no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u390	There's no reason to do new wrongs. [[...]] That is why I will vote in favour. We are a nation that has never done evil to men. We didn't step across our borders. We've reached our country now, too. With our culture, we can set an example for the whole world. After all, let us be like Prešern the most out of tune, the most Slovenian. Let's be the most honest of us. After all, we have his anthem, "Let all the nations live." Let's be human. Let's not make new excuses. But I'm for all the injustices that you've warned about before, when you've talked a lot about these injustices being rectified. Please be so emotionally intelligent.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u391	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u392	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the law. In particular, I will vote in this respect because the Constitutional Court's decision does not mean that the State must resolve the implementation of this decision in two laws. The state can solve this law with one law. In this law, it may also specify the conditions or exceptions under which those who have cooperated against the interests of our country during the period of independence would not be entitled to those rights offered by this law. Another time. Demos was a political creation that ensured independence and independence for that country. The State did not create new injustices in 1992. It clearly defined the conditions and criteria under which persons who lived here at that time could also have their status regulated. Some did, some didn't. If we adopt this law, we will place those who then settled this status in a subordinate position compared to those who were then able to act against the interests of our country. Therefore, I do not think that we can solve this issue selectively. We have to save him in a package. With the procrastination veto of the National Assembly, the Council of State gave once again the opportunity to make a different decision. There's an opportunity for us. Let's use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u393	My friend Tarchoon, who I apologize to for skipping him earlier. And then there's Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u394	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, in the debates on this law, as the biggest argument of critics against the adoption of the law appeared mainly fear - which is also present in the public - of compensation and the acquisition of rights for those affected who were not supposed to be entitled to it. I am also not sure and I am more inclined to the opinion expressed by the President of the Constitutional Court that this matter could be remedied on the basis of a Constitutional Court decision. At the same time, I fear that if the law is not adopted, we will find ourselves in some void and wonder what we can do now. Time's running out. Critics of the law should also have an interest in clarifying this matter as soon as possible. If they hold the issue of compensation, which is supposed to be so great - which I think is speculation and exaggeration, then the non-admission of the law and the non-regulation of this situation mean even greater compensation and even greater damage to the country. Therefore, we should all have a common interest in closing this matter as soon as possible. That's why I'm going to support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u395	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u396	About 180,000 foreigners accepted Slovenia as their home country. A few tens of thousands, according to the Crimea and the United List, speculated and chose their path, the path of speculation and the determination of pleasure according to a certain moment. He also speculated on Krivic. For four years, he had an opinion in the drawer. While he was still in the Constitutional Court. Now I'm supposed to be given a slap in the face to the honest, hard-working and those who decided to go to Slovenia. In addition, it is a very perfidious speculation of the current coalition, which knows that it will no longer be at the head of the Republic of Slovenia in the next term, and therefore wants to leave the new authorities with strong financial burdens and burdens on their shoulders. Of these gentlemen, many of whom from the United List and the Liberal Democracy have been richly pumped into their pockets, these gentlemen are not expected to do anything good. Even if they're talking about rights like that, they can reach into their own pockets and pay for all these different Todorovics, and I don't know who else. But the blame should be given to that fee he's fighting so hard for. I will only ask you this: What about those Slovenians and citizens of Slovenia who have been paying taxes on their poor salaries all these years and are unemployed today? I would very much like to see some LDS fellow Members or colleagues of Members of the United Nations look at these people's faces when they are told by such pathetic expressions and by looking at the camera to show them how much they are in pain of some injustices. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u397	My friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u398	I would like to say a few words on behalf of those who, somehow, I would like to continue, as Mr Jelinčič has already mentioned. On behalf of that 172 grand, because I'm one of them. It was clear to us that this is a change in the places in which we live. That there's somewhere you need to get your status sorted. No speculation. We have submitted what was necessary, the applications and certain documents that after three or four months we have been granted citizenship. I feel sorry for those who really didn't understand. And nowadays they don't understand. If this could be crystallized, maybe 10 or not know how many percent of the people, I'd be right behind it. I'd like to support this bill you're proposing. Only those speculators who really were speculators don't feel sorry for me. Those deserve -- I'll be ugly, I'll say -- punishment, but now we have to adore them. Please, if we have anything morale, we simply cannot support it. Excuse me. I'll vote no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u399	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u400	The recent presentation of the Ombudsman's annual report in Parliament has shown that Parliament's specific difficulties are not really of much interest to people. I'll vote in favour. As a reminder, I'd say something. In Belgium, there is one big strong party called the Flemish Block. No Belgian party, not on the left, not on the right, came up with the idea that with this powerful party, the Flemish bloc could make any coalition. And that's because the password of the Flemish block is "our people first." This is a fascist and racist thesis in Europe. No Belgian party makes a coalition with the Flemish bloc. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u401	Please, Comrade Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u402	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I would like to give an opinion on how we will vote. We will vote against it. The reason why we cannot agree to such a law is stated in the debate. There's a lot of them. We do not mean that there is no need to enforce a constitutional decision. She needs it, but not in any way. We need to seriously consider how to do this. Citizens, now referring to injustices, were given the opportunity to make a decision. They decided by their own conscience, in their own belief, by their own calculation. That's actually the way life is. The state offered them an opportunity, invited them. The country was in the process of becoming, suffering. People have decided to defend their country. Some people don't. We therefore consider that a constitutional decision should be implemented, but not in any way. It's time for us to act in a state-of-the-art way, to act responsible. We should adopt such a law that would properly regulate - in the event of an accident - to ensure verification of what happened to an individual. Secondly, it must be his will to enforce something that was allegedly taken away from him. These are the key reasons why we will not support this marriage. We still think that it is possible to implement a constitutional decision, whatever it is, even though some of the lawyers who are now acting in this decision have been involved in this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u403	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u404	Your Honors are here! Evil people say, "Let's be ashamed of our own people." May this be the medal of the wicked. In the national party, of course. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u405	There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u406	We can't hold it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u407	There's no controversy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u408	We are confident, even more, that the Constitutional Court's decision or compliance with such a decision by the Constitutional Court and the law of such a law can lead to the mass injury of the State on the basis of fabricated history. [[....]] The fact that you people in the National Assembly have unfortunately decided after most of the time that you are willing to replace our country's independence with those few miserable votes of voters and voters is, in our opinion, shameful. We are not in the national party and we will not support such decisions, whether they come from government parties or from those parties who are increasingly on television today, but they do not have the courage to speak in the manner they deserve in such a case. We will not support such a matter in the national party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u409	I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u410	In the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we have discussed several times the laws that have solved such or other injustices that have taken place. However, for the first time at this level, we are dealing with the correction of the injustices caused by the new country. We solved the problems of exiles and political prisoners. Today we are talking about a very difficult issue, on which we Members have often been in the dilemma of what is legal science. For by listening to lawyers of this sort and different, it was always so that they could put themselves into certain dilemmas. However, I will do as a large group of legal experts have noted, which are written here in the opinion of the Government, how to enforce the decision of the Constitutional Court. They say it's good to be saved by this kind of law. I am even more convinced that among those who wrote this opinion are former actors of the time when this happened, Dr. Pirnat, Dr. Bučar, Dr. Jerovšek. In short, the type of people who were active in one way or another at the time of this law. I believe them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u411	Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u412	Thank you so much for saying that. If agenda items also have subtitles, this agenda item should have the subtitle 'wrong world'. A policy that is responsible for some unconstitutionality established by the Constitutional Court is now being attacked. The policy, which at that time pointed to this unconstitutionality, defends itself. Human rights to permanent residence, citizenship and many others are mixed. What is involved is what this law regulates and what will be governed by the law. This will not be made public until January. We're having a discussion about things that this law doesn't even regulate, but we're talking about them. So somehow I'm forced to tell myself that it's not true what those who oppose the law say. This law doesn't even regulate it, but it really doesn't. This will only be regulated by a law that will be discussed on 12 January in the presentation of opinions and then in the legislative procedure. This law is a technical law, as they say. Some, or many, even questioned whether we needed it or not. However, a group of eminent lawyers - eminent lawyers, I stress - have said that we need it. But it's practically nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u413	Comrade Partich, you're the last. Then does anyone else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then you're the last. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u414	I'll support the law on my own. I believe the result will be very narrow. This is also said by the fact that there is no accounting for excessive sympathy, let alone voter votes. In the environment where I live, I will therefore experience much more - one will feel justified, I find it unjustifiable - attacks and hysteria to give money to someone but not to our people. However, I am deciding for two reasons. The first is the one mentioned earlier by Mr Auschwitz. We are correcting and making great reparations for the injustices committed by the occupying authorities committed by the former Yugoslav State, with which this country has nothing. But this new state of ours has caused some injustice. All of a sudden, we're talking about sums that are supposed to destroy us. The other thing that goes on my mind - even if I remember the long past - is that some went to the Partisans, others opposed because they saw the danger of Bolshevism. One of them was in the middle and they were called not OF, but OR. Just the ones who didn't want to make up their minds. Some of these - I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't listened to these discussions all day. I remember Dreyfus in Paris at the end of the 19th century, which everyone would eat and lynch. For two years, no one was hoping to come to his defense. And then he came by - as you know - Zola. Public opinion has also changed slightly. That's so fast. A population against one part of the nation, its own, and more than once foreign, stands up against it. In a way, they become some on call guilty and get angry at them. This is dangerous even when those who think otherwise within their own country will turn out to be citizens and members of this nation. I'll be right there. But since I was sitting here at the time, I remember it was an amendment. The question - I think I put it myself - the amendment was put by a colleague, what will happen to those who will not handle these things. The answer was that the amendment was not even necessary because they would be granted foreign status. I haven't forgotten. I think it was about to be brought around. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u415	Thank you very much. A fellow onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u416	Thank you very much. I will not support this marriage. I, certain discussers or, to those who advocate this law, I fully believe that there are certain specific cases that are worth considering. These are examples - Mr Mamić, a fellow Member of ours, has also made it clear, which should be thought that this would somehow be resolved. I'm sure this can be solved. Look, the Constitutional Court didn't prescribe anywhere that it was necessary to solve this with two laws. We need one law that will systematically solve each individual problem. We know that as a result of this, which is now going into the package, that it takes all those who are among them, people who are 90% unjustifiable to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. There's only one thing I'd like to remind you of. Look, you probably all remember the controversy when they were getting citizenship. When we were criticized so in the electorate, in our citizens, in the Slovenes, when these people got their citizenship for 600 tolars. This is what was mentioned earlier. That it was possible to get it at the right time. But truly speculators, who are essential to more - I know them personally - are not entitled to the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. For this reason, it is necessary to draw up a law that will systematically, individually, solve certain problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u417	Janša's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u418	I will vote against this law. Also because despite many questions raised, the government has failed to answer the ancient evidence of the State Council and of us, or the question of why two marriages. Why two marriages, why it's not settled in one marriage. We responded to that. No one has objected to this answer. two laws to hide in this so-called technical law the most unjustifiable cases that would never have been obtained if the status had actually been verified. And this law says it's automatic for everyone. You're saying they've already proven it. They didn't. Against the law - I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, so I have three minutes - we will vote against the law for that reason [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u419	I think Comrade Visjak is on behalf of the Group of Members. You've spoken to your colleague Visak? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Just to find out. Comrade Visjak, have you spoken on behalf of the parliamentary group or not? In your own name? Please finish your thought. I can't look back now. Please finish your thought. Comrade Janš, you have one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u420	Mr Školč is as loud as he was in 91 when he supported Aksentievich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u421	Please, there's no dispute in explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u422	In short, we will also vote against the law because, by forcing this decision on the two laws, you radically introduce inequality before the law. In the National Assembly and in the Government, you have 16 decisions of the Constitutional Court, which are older. You don't think they're in any hurry. Some decisions of the Constitutional Court have been pending for years and years, and you don't care about them. You've called an extraordinary meeting just for this occasion. Now you're forcing it. The arguments you are making for the benefit of this law are, in many ways, denied by the statements of those you are trying to use. The president of the so-called deleted society, Mr Todorovič, stated publicly that he simply did not like Slovenian citizenship because he considered Slovenia to be an uncivilised country and still today. In fact, the Vice-President of the Society deleted former officer JLA Perak commanded the unit of the Aggressor Army, which attacked the Holmc border crossing and today demands compensation from the Slovenian state for not giving him citizenship.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u423	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u424	But I do know that behind these big words about human rights, how to correct injustices that we do not hear in other cases is a very clear interest. Those who now rule in Slovenia for 11 years are ruled by the fact that 200,000 new citizens were granted in 1991. The government would now like to be extended by acquiring some 20, 30,000 additional citizens at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u425	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u426	These voices slowly [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u427	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. The coffeepot has a word now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Sure, but he was right in front of you. My friend Kovtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u428	Colleagues and colleagues! I believe there are injustices in this country as well. But now we are about to adopt a law that will allow people to prove that they have been wronged. Well, that's all it's about. So we're going to adopt a law that people can prove with. But it is not said that if we adopt the law, it has already been proved that they have been wronged. That's why I'm going to adopt this law. I'm going to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u429	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u430	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the law. In 1990, I was convinced that all the Slovenian parties gathered in Parliament at that time were working for a new Slovenia, independently and independently, and that we were also deciding to accept documents on the basis of which over 170,000 citizens and citizens could regain their citizenship. That's what I was sure of. I thought that was an honest definition of everyone. At the time, I was convinced that we were adopting a law on foreigners, which would also allow those who did not want to be citizens to remain foreigners with permanent residence, not to be deprived of certain rights. The law that we are considering today, which we will re-elect after the veto of the State Council, confers rights only to those in respect of whom our country, in respect of which the competent administrative authorities have already individually, have individually determined that they have been resident no later than 25 February 1992 and have since continued to live in our country. The opinion of a group of experts was that a special law was needed. To be politically necessary, this debate shows me because otherwise we would not be willing to discuss the same issues now, but only in two, three months or six months. At least part of the problem will be solved now. We'll talk about the rest later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u431	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u432	I will support the law mainly because of the dangerous chauvinist vocabulary that has been established against solving this problem. First, I would say that the LDS received a relative majority at the time when fewer electoral beneficiaries were registered in the electoral directory than when Demos received the majority. That's why I'm denying these problems about who it is. Secondly, I would say that the talk about speculators in history was so clear - and I apologize in advance if anyone would think the case was too strong - but those speculators who were guilty of everything that was wrong in the middle of the previous century were later dealt with in a special way by Nazi Germany. The third thing I would say - I am speaking against the dictionary that there will be no misunderstanding - is that the 8th point that we are deciding now does not speak of anything other than that supplementary decisions are being made for those for which the situation has already been established and that there is no speculation that the Ministry or anyone through this law would grant status to someone without verification. This verification has already been carried out. Because of this kind of speculation - I'll say - on my left I think it makes sense at this point to support this law and to distance myself from this dictionary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u433	Does anyone else want to explain their vote before making a decision? No, no, no. Then we will now proceed to the vote on the said law. Once again, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution, the law will be adopted if it is voted on by a majority. So, 46 or more Members and Members. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Peace in the hall. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] In the middle of the vote, Comrade Zląbek points out the failure of the voting apparatus. [[...]] Before the vote, I have already pointed out that everyone is looking at the operation of the device. Once again, to avoid any misunderstandings, if the hand had been raised after it had been able to determine the outcome, it would not have allowed you to decide again. That's how we're gonna do it again. We will vote on the adoption of that law. We're voting. Peace in the hall. The law has been passed. 51, 27, 80 present. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 27.]] This concludes this point. Point three. I take it we're going to vote on the bill on Friday, so we can move on to point four. This is the second reading of the proposal for an exceptional reduction in tax liability law We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. Peace in the hall. The proposal for a law on the exceptional reduction of tax liability, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. Can we make a decision? A colleague of mags. A little something, please. My friend Mamić
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u434	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to explain the vote on behalf of the New Slovenia Group on the proposal for a decision. We will not support the proposal because the law is a suitable basis for consideration. This law may be the only thing wrong with the fact that the signatory to the bill is wrong, that New Slovenia is the leader of the New Slovenia Group. For this law is identical to that which was in force in 1999, 2000 and 2001. It was then accepted by Drnovskov's coalition. The law is aimed at this. The aim of the law is to ensure that more basic income relief is provided for those on the side of that country. You obviously don't care about things that concern children. Obviously, you are not interested in laws aimed at ensuring a minimum standard. You don't care about that. Neither do you care about the income law, which has been unconstitutional for seven years. You're interested in other things, foreign citizens. You are also not interested in local self-government in Cyprus, even though the Constitutional Court has already stated this a long time ago. I would therefore appeal in particular to the United List of Social Democrats if he has any further social democratic thoughts and supports this law, because it is aimed at those layers that are most difficult to break into this transition. The parliamentary group will vote against the fact that the law is not suitable for further consideration because the law is appropriate. Legal and legal services have explained that the law is not appropriate because it regulates retrograde. What about the previous point when we voted? Is he doing some retrograde? I would expect the legislature to have the same standards as all laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u435	I'm going to propose one more time. I'm going to tell you the content of the decision. The proposal for a law on the exceptional reduction of tax liability is not suitable for further consideration. Can the National Assembly decide? Please, my friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u436	Thank you so much for saying that. It seems that I was representing the Group's position on this issue that some of you were out of this room or were not following. So allow me to confirm again in roughly the same content, or to find out this fact that I have given, that you are sure that the opposition Members can also afford seemingly friendly laws that open up the deficit in the public treasury, and that you are responsible for the government's clients without having to find any alternative funds we can't afford. That is why we will vote as has been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u437	There's no controversy. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u438	Thank you very much. I'll vote against it. We consider, also in the Slovenian National Party, that the law is suitable for further consideration. We also understand in the Slovenian National Party that the ruling coalition does not need anything to be regulated for the benefit of Slovenian citizens. First of all, the United List of Social Democrats and the LDS are looking at how to bring water to their mill and they would grind only the grain they produced and share it with only those they have set up. That's why they took a big piece of power and they're taking that power that's already over the edge of democracy and democracy. After all, they also have a "minister's officer", Mr Bohinc, and a lot of others. They're reaching into the health, health, and all over the place. Soon they will reintroduce the ban on speech, that infamous article that our colleagues have already discussed today. Verbal delinquency will come back on track and so on. What remains for us in the Slovenian National Party is simply to say that we are against this way. And we hope that the electorate will still miss who's been dragging them around for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u439	I now believe that we can decide on the proposal for a decision. Please, we're voting. 77 in attendance, 49 in and 26 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that this decision has been adopted by the assembly and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal is concluded, and so also item 4 of the agenda. On the 5th item of the agenda, we will vote on Friday, after the end of the last item of the agenda. Thus, we can now move on to the 6th item of the agenda - to the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia. We will move to a vote on the proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia in the second reading is not suitable for further consideration." We're making a decision. The proposal was adopted. 56 for, 19 to 80 present. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Thus, the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed and the agenda item has been drawn up. At the 8th item of the agenda, we will continue the second reading of the bill on collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants. We will move to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members by Article 5. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u440	Explanation of voice. The pension money should be for pension purposes only. This means that the investment policy of the funds collected from pension premiums must be adapted to the long-term safe charging policy. While the proposalers of this amendment are trying to resolve another issue, this is a matter of regional development, which I agree with, but the resources to finance regional development policies must be different from the premium of supplementary pension insurance. That's why I won't be able to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u441	I don't know if I saw it right. Did you raise your hand, Comrade Kebrich? On behalf of the Group of Members. And then, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u442	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. The Group of Members will support this amendment for the following reasons. For the first time, to resist centralism, force it, because the whole law has forced the entire public sector. By this law, with or to this Article 5, we work two classes of our society. Some may be voluntary, may make decisions, and may not be able to provide additional insurance. Others, including Members of Parliament, the National Assembly, the Executive and the judiciary, are privileged to receive an additional bonus without regard to how old they are. Everywhere in the world, the premium is paid from pay, but not from work. Where is equality, where is justice? Isn't that constitutionally controversial? At the end of the law, when we vote on behalf of the Anti-Personnel Group, I will explain something else about how we view the social injustice of those 600, 700,000 plus their children who depend on coordination. This coordination will be reduced at the expense of the privileges conferred by this law on these civil servants. That is why our Group, I repeat, will vote against it because there is no reason for us to make a distinction between citizens, so that one of us can make a voluntary decision, and we are forced to do so because no one has asked us anything. This clever proposer to use us, if you'll excuse me, under the arraignment that no one will accuse me of "wanting to buy us" in this way, because in the original, officials should not be included in the extra insurance. Why not? Because they are not subject to a collective agreement. Now they found us, in my personal opinion, when we threatened and told and there was a vote 30:37 that this law would fall, but they explained nicely at the side door that the officials were included. That's unfair. A democratic party of pensioners is against every privilege. We have allowed and hoped to speak out against the privileges of the police, the military and everyone else, and also against the privileges of the legislative, executive and fully public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u443	Thank you. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u444	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that in the Slovenian National Party, if the amendment is adopted, we will not oppose the proposal for a law. And once again, let me say that we've decided that it's better to have more funds than one. For if one of the funds, as we know, falls under the New Ljubljana Bank, we know that this fund will be owned by the Belgian Bank. We certainly don't like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u445	Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u446	In the New Slovenia Group, we will support this amendment, as it slightly improves the stinking law, the poorly prepared law, the law that must carry out an act that has been prevented by force under the table, and imposes great obligations. This is the principle of centralisation and monopolization. However, it is a law that has already ruled out whether to pay these salaries or to provide some investment in the Fund in the long term. The problem with this law is that, in fact, it will artificially reduce the deficit, the real deficit of the country and the obligations will fall to the next periods. At the same time, we are wondering whether the state will really ensure payment to this pension fund. We're going to ask ourselves a lot of questions about what's going to happen. It's just a premonition of speculation about how to bypass ZIPRO, a law that is supposed to ensure transparency of public finances. Apparently it will be just some kind of farce to increase the deficit, more than is allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u447	Now I really don't see any interest in explaining the voice anymore. I'm asking everyone to take your seats. We'll move on to a decision. We will decide on the amendment of Article 5 of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're making a decision. 75 present, 33 for and 40 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] This amendment has not been adopted. We decided on the only one that had been tabled and concluded the second reading of the proposal. Therefore, no amendment was adopted to the draft law and the assembly will, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, hold a third hearing on Friday, the last day following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. That's what I'm breaking up with. We are now at the 7th item of the agenda, which we have already discussed today, namely the proposal for a law on savagery and hunting. I'm going to ask you to take a preliminary look at the amendments. It carries the number 7 in the upper right corner, it has 16 pages and we will slowly go from article to article by vote. Can we get started? Okay. We have the first article and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 58 present, 49 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Can we proceed as we speak? Please. We are under Article 3, where two amendments are tabled, both are being tabled by the New Slovenia Group. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 12 in and 52 in. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 52.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 3. We're voting. 62 present, 13 for and 48 vs. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The amendment is being tabled in Article 4 of the Liberal Democracy Club. We're making a decision. 64 present, 53 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's move on. We are on page 1 of the review and the amendment to Article 5. It is under the auspices of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're making a decision. 65 present, 50 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On page 2 of the review, the proposal for Article 5a is irrelevant. We are going to Article 6, which is also being submitted by the LDS Member Club. We're voting. 62 present, 47 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. You have three amendments to Article 7. If the first one or the one under order number 1 is adopted, this is the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, then the amendments under order numbers 2 and 3 are irrelevant. We're making a decision. 67 in attendance, 14 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This is how we can now decide on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We've got it under serial number two to seven. We're making a decision. 69 present, 22 for and 42 for [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. The same parliamentary group, SLS, is also proposing an amendment under order number 3. We're making a decision. 67 present, 22 for and 43 for. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. Four amendments have been tabled to Article 8. If the amendment of the New Slovenia Group is adopted, the amendments are irrelevant under order numbers 2, 3 and 4. If the amendment is adopted under order number 2, it will become irrelevant as follows, under order number 3. Can we make a decision? First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 13 in and 45 in. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. This way we can continue our decision-making with the amendments to Article 8. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party is proposing an amendment. I've already warned you, if it's accepted, it's becoming a meaningless amendment under order number three. We're making a decision. 65 in attendance, 11 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. This allows us to decide on the amendment tabled by the Youth Party's parliamentary group. You have it under order number three. We're voting. 67 present, 15 for and 46 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are now deciding on the last one put forward by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're making a decision. 64 present, 18 for and 43 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Article 9 of the amendment is irrelevant. We're going to Article 11. We have an amendment to the LDS House of Representatives. Article 11, Amendment of the LDS Club of Members. We're voting. Order! You don't have a word with Dr. Bayuk. We're in the middle of a vote. 62 present, 51 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] This amendment has been adopted. On page 5 of the review we have two amendments tabled to Article 13. If he's adopted first, then the second one is irrelevant. We will first decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're making a decision! 68 in attendance, 19 in and 44 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 44.]] This allows us to decide on the amendment tabled by the LDS. We're voting. 58 present, 47 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. By Article 19, we have tabled an amendment to the LDS. We're making a decision. Order! We're on page 5 or 6 of the review. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 59 in attendance, 45 in and 10 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. The LDS Club also tables an amendment to the 20th Article. We're voting. I am taking the vote slowly enough to follow, so there is no need for unrest. Please. 59 present, 48 for and 4 against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] The amendment was accepted. By article 21, we have an amendment to the same parliamentary group. We're voting. 61 in attendance, 49 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 24, Amendment of the LDS Club of Members. We're voting. We're almost halfway through. 67 present, 52 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was accepted. Three amendments have been tabled to Article 26. If this is adopted under order number 1, the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is irrelevant to those two under order numbers 2 and 3. We decide first on the amendment under order number 1 to 26. 66 in attendance, 17 in and 45 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] Not accepted. The LDS Member Club shall submit an amendment under order number 2. If it is accepted, it becomes immaterial under order number 3. We're voting. Explanation of vote, interrupts the vote. Please, I give you my word, you signed up early enough. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u448	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I will vote against this proposal and also announce the obstruction of further votes because, Mr President, in the scenario of today's agenda or yesterday's and the entire meeting, you have completely fallen under the influence of the Defacy of the President of the National Assembly. That's outrageous. In Slovenia we have no emergency situation, they have them in Russia and they work there at night and have an emergency situation. It makes sense to me that I, as a technologist, spent 36 hours in a factory together doing experiments when I did something successful, one synthesis, of which a hundred people still live today. It does not seem to me that we are working under pressure from an emergency situation that is not yet in this country. It is true that this law is remarkable, predicting some extraordinary situation in an area, because, as Mr Rokavec said, it was brought with an ultimatum. The ultimate is usually war, war forecast. I will vote against and predict my own obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u449	Are you predicting an obstruction of the parliamentary group? This is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'll give you an explanation first. I think I have to give it to him so there's no misunderstanding. I'm asking for peace in the hall! When the College decided on the agenda for determining the meeting's timing, it was immediately informed from the outset of the very mandatory and challenging agenda that the vote would be very late today. And that wasn't unexpected or unplanned. Comrade Jerovšek, if you have not made a statement on behalf of the Group of Members, then the Rules of Procedure do not provide that you may give it on your behalf. That's how we're going to proceed with the decision. Peace in the hall. We're at Article 26, second amendment. We're voting. 63 present, 53 for and 5 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 5.]] This amendment has been adopted so that the amendment under order number 3 has become irrelevant. In Article 29, we have the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Comrade Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u450	Thank you for your word. Once again, I will take advantage of this institute of explanations of vote, so that I may recall, once you have not been in the Chamber, that this is the last time we have the opportunity to leave the 29th article open until the third reading by adopting an amendment which I do not otherwise support, because I believe that the better is set out in paragraphs 7 and 8 of Article 29, and thus allow us not to complicate the procedure for the formation and determination of a concession fee until the third reading. In this way, we will have to provide, as stated in points 3 and 5, a large bureaucratic apparatus in this country, which will have to set the amount of the concession fee individually for each hunt or hunting family each year. All I'm saying is, this time it's our chance to break this amendment. If you're going to hear that too, I'm sure you'll make some arguments, then you'll do your thing. But I don't think this is the way of debate and decision-making here in the choir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u451	Can you please take your seats? We'll decide. We decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group to Article 29. We're voting. Peace in the hall. 61 in attendance, 14 in and 42 in. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment was not accepted. As of the 41st article, we have an amendment to the LDS Club. You want to explain the voice of your colleague Kavtičnik? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u452	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u453	Article 41. Can we make a decision? Please, we're voting. 61 present, 50 for and 5 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was adopted. We have two amendments tabled under Article 46. The first is by the Slovenian National Party Group and the second by the LDS Club. First, we decide on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. 69 present, 37 for and 25 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The LDS Club shall submit a second amendment under order number 2. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 46 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. On page 9, we have two amendments to Article 47. The first is the LDS Member Club, the second group of Members with a first-signed colleague of the Evil One. First, we decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 47. [[Page 9]] . We're making a decision. 62 present, 48 for and 11 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. By Article 47, we now have an amendment under Order No 2, a group of Members with a first-signed colleague of the Evil One. Now you want the word. Please, Comrade Kavtičnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u454	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support this amendment, because for me, the safety of every individual has an advantage over any damage that would eventually be caused by savages near houses. Because I know a lot of hunters, and I know that killing animals is not their most important activity and job, and that hunters are the ones who have an animal's life and even people's life, I am convinced that accepting this amendment will not cause them to lose their joy in hunting and that by increasing the distance from 50 to 250 meters, the safety of people in places or in individual houses will also be increased. That's why I'm sure it's right to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u455	Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We decide on the proposal of the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed counterpart of the Evil One. We're making a decision. 70 present, 36 for and 25 against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's go to the 10th page of Article 48. I'm asking for peace in the hall! I won't go on until there's peace. If something was wrong, then of course I'm responsible for it being wrong, and I wouldn't want it to happen. Please! At Article 48, we have the amendment of the LDS. We're making a decision. 59 present, 51 for and 5 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Same parliamentary group, same parliamentary club, amendment to Article 52. We're making a decision. Please, please, please, please, please, 58 in attendance, 46 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We have three amendments to Article 55 on pages 10 and 11. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. It is submitted by the SLS Group of Members. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 16 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Under order number 2, we also have the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 59 in attendance, 9 in, 46 in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The New Slovenia Group has an amendment under order number 3. We're voting. 64 in attendance, 17 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We have an amendment to Article 57 of the LDS. We're making a decision. Order! 64 in attendance, 52 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We have an amendment to Article 64 of the LDS. We're making a decision. 64 present, 52 in, 9 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. The same parliamentary group of amendments shall be tabled in Article 70. We're voting. 61 present, 50 for and 5 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. At Article 71, we have three amendments. If they're accepted, those behind them will become irrelevant. First of all, we are voting on the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group under order number 1. We're voting. If adopted, the amendment under order numbers 2 and 3 will be irrelevant. 65 in attendance, 16 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. This allows us to decide on the amendment of the LDS Member Club under order number 2. We're voting. 67 present, 57 for and 8 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. So now the amendment under order number 3 has become irrelevant. On the 13th page, we have the amendment of Article 72 of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. We're making a decision. 69 present, 18 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have an amendment from the LDS Club to Article 78. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 46 in and 6 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In the case of Article 81, a colleague of Rokavec requested the position of the legislative and legal service. Just a moment before the secretary-general looks at the head of this department or office in the background. He's already here. Please, you have the floor, Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u456	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! If we have understood correctly, the question was that the provision of paragraph 9 was somewhat unusual and that they were asking for our assessment from this point of view. I would just like to say that this paragraph should be seen in conjunction with the preceding three paragraphs. It is a matter of transferring the right of management of breeding fisheries to the institution in the preceding three paragraphs. In this regard, it is necessary to know that a new situation is taking place for these legal persons, and therefore we believe that, in fact, the property, which, after paragraph 9, is specifically linked to the fact that it is located in the area of the current hunting grounds and that it is linked to the hunting activity, is right to be dealt with in a specific way in the law. We believe that the proposed text of the amendment is better than the basic text in the amended bill, where a type of mandatory sale was actually envisaged. However, we believe that some issues, particularly from the position of the government in relation to the word "may" because the word "may" is now still open. We think that it primarily solves the principle of market price, which both of you have to stop respecting. In particular, we believe that until the third reading in this context it is necessary to look further at the position of the government in particular in what happens, if the other side is, this is the right business to be prepared to buy or sell, or that, as an investment, it is still possible to refuse such purchase. We believe that a specific provision is necessary for the government to be able to enter into such relations at all. But as I say, the mere diction, I think that until the third reading, it should still be checked on all possible situations which, in concluding such an agreement as we understand as some kind of damage, may occur. That's how much our grade would be right now. In doing so, I stress that this is our understanding of these provisions, because specific explanations are not actually found in the material in the course of adoption, and this additional little needs to be assessed by the proponents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u457	If this amendment is adopted, the following number 2 will be irrelevant. We will first decide on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We're making a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. 59 in attendance, 8 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment was not accepted. That way we can decide on the completion of the LDS Club. We're voting. Article 81, second amendment. We're in the middle of a vote. 59 in attendance, 46 in, 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. Let's move on, paragraph 82. We have two amendments tabled. First of all, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. If adopted, the amendment shall become irrelevant under order number 2. We're making a decision. Amendment under order number 1, 82. 60 in attendance, 9 in, 45 in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The second is the LDS Member Club. We're voting. 57 in attendance, 48 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] The amendment was accepted. We have two more decisions, sorry, just one more, and this is an addition to the 84th Article by the LDS Club. We're voting. 61 present, 50 for and 4 against. (For the vote was 50.)(against 4.) With this, we have decided on the amendments. The amendment to Rule 84a is not in accordance with the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. That's my conclusion to this point. So we decided on those agenda items that were on the agenda last night and today. In accordance with the agreement at the college meeting, after the work has been done, we will now go to 26. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision are compatible with the internal market and that they are compatible with the internal market. That was the deal, it's in line with the work plan. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? I'll wait a minute. Good. I see there are no government representatives. Mr. Chairman of the Finance Committee, would you like a word? Please, Comrade Pucka has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u458	Thank you very much. Mr. President, good morning! Colleagues and colleagues! The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee discussed that proposal at a meeting yesterday. In doing so, he amended Article 2 to provide in reserve a sufficiently high amount of compensation for damage following natural disasters in this year, amounting to 13 billion Slovenian tolars. I suggest that the council adopt that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u459	Please, do you have a procedural proposal? I'll give you my word. We'll go one by one, and I'll ask. Comrade Bernick? You want a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u460	I'll be very brief. This law or two that are changing really only raises the reserve from two million one hundred thousand, 13 billion, pardon, 2 billion one hundred thousand to 13 billion. This is supposed to be used for the natural damage that was done in July 2003. It is interesting, however, that the government puts these new funds in reserves and not where it should be, where it can be controlled, what will be paid out of it. The government therefore expects that this amount, which is increased, will be paid with higher revenues in 2003 than expected. We would like the government to say a little more clearly what they want to do with this money, because it is not entirely certain that all this amount is ready to settle the damage. It may even pay off the so - called deleted ones from that amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u461	My grandson's friend? [[No, no, ……]] We are now in the middle of a presentation by the groups of Members, and then I will see what and how. So now they have all the parliamentary groups, if that's how they want the right to perform. Comrade Visjak now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u462	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support this amendment and the amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget; we want compensation to be paid to the affected as soon as possible in accordance with the programme to remedy the consequences of natural disasters this year. On the committee today or yesterday, there were several different interpretations as to the stage of administrative procedures and when they could be compensated or compensated by appropriate administrative acts. It has been said that this year it will be possible, so of course we are committed to allowing the adoption of this law to do so and, therefore, I would like to inform from the representative of the Government now whether the administrative procedures for the recognition of amounts of compensation to individuals, as a solution to the consequences of natural disasters, are at this stage, in order to be able to pay compensation under the programme this year or not, and when this money can be expected to be affected. I ask myself again, because the programme estimates the damage of 7 billion, and here we provide 13 billion, that is to say, practically 3 billion more than is necessary this year to remedy the consequences. I therefore ask whether it would not be more appropriate to spend this money to reduce our deficit or your deficit.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u463	Comrade Pucko. Please, please, please, please, please, My colleagues are in the way. The hour is late and, of course, everyone expects peace in the hall. Please! He's a friend of mine. Comrade Jelinczych, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it's a little inappropriate time for our work. After all, the experts have already made 27 overtime this month, while the National Assembly pays only 20. And basically, we work here, I don't know, according to what law. You don't want to settle the status of Members, you don't want to settle the status, how we're going to work, why we're going to work, how we're going to work, how we're going to work, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u465	That's not the subject of this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u466	And if we are already working under the labour law, Mr President, then you are very, very violating this law. However, as far as this law is concerned, it does not matter how our parliamentary group votes. In this law you have provided yourself with an additional few billion tolars to share, and the other is no longer important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u467	Comrade Pucka, would you like to present the position of the LDS Club? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Christmas, please, group of SLS. Then I'll go to the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u468	Thank you very much. The Slovenian People's Party will, of course, support this proposal. What, in fact, we can expect as early as the opinion that the National Assembly has done something good in the official hours for farmers and for those who have suffered damage in 2003. But today, I think it was enough to move forward and talk for a long time, as the chairman of the Finance Commission said, and we could only vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u469	My friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u470	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We are this year, a genuine United List of Social Democrats Group, very pleased to support the law to cover natural disasters. At that time, we drew attention to some of the facts that are open because this law was not covered with appropriate resources. However, the proposal for amendments and additions tabled by the Government is acceptable to us. We also support the fact that this budget reserve, which has been proposed at a level of 13 billion, is also fully supported because, not least, the last year ahead of us is likely to surprise us in a wide range of areas and then it will not be possible to refer to the lack of adequate funding. This means that we will fully support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u471	We've exhausted the debate. We're at second reading. No amendments were tabled to the law, so it is not possible to file them for a third. We're moving on to a decision on the law. No one informed me that the marriage would be inconsistent. That way we can move on to making decisions about him. We're voting on the law. Explanation of voice. I'm sorry. Comrade Sok, you have the right to explain your vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u472	It is rare that such an early marriage should be adopted and why not take advantage of this opportunity and explain the voice. I think that such organisation of work is far from wise, as such proposals by the government are unwise. A few months ago, the government reduced the budget reserve by amending the budget. We had already warned the Government that additional funds would have to be provided in accordance with this compensation law adopted by this Parliament. There was no hearing at the time, but now at one o'clock at night you force us to correct this mistake again, to correct what Mr Rob promised at the radgon fair, when, of course, all those present there applauded him very much and when he assured them that they would receive help by the end of November. Since November is running out, of course, it is now necessary to move quickly, they seem to have remembered that only this promise would be good and this commitment must be fulfilled, and now this must be accepted. Of course, no one can oppose such a proposal. In fact, we all support this, but Mr President, we cannot support such work. And you're the one who's most guilty of doing things this way. That's what I have to tell you. That's not serious of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u473	My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u474	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I've gone a little further, and now I know why there's such a difference between the damage that's already done and the damage you're predicting. If there is a large reserve, you can do significantly more damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u475	Anyone else want a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u476	Thank you very much. It is true, early in the morning, we are all tired, but I think it is right that we listen to what was said today or yesterday on the Committee on Finance, that this difference is 2.1 to 13 billion, that the estimated damage is around 6 and a half to 7, if I remember correctly that for 13 billion it was said, so I stress, and let it go to the record that this is because the difference in this reserve is also foreseen for damage that may still occur. I think it's right that we know that. Of course, we will choose to take such a major step, or to do so in our own conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-25-SDZ3-Redna-31.ana.u477	Anyone else want a word? Then we'll move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. 68 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been adopted and thus this item is also adopted on the agenda. I am pleased that the work that had to be done was done. We did it according to plan and arrangement. I know you're tired, but this job was just supposed to be done today. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., the leaders of the parliamentary groups don't forget, we have a meeting. Thank you for your attention! We'll continue the meeting today at 10 a.m. Until then, I want you to get some rest.
