ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you and wish you a successful job! We will continue yesterday the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, I would like to inform you of colleagues and colleagues who are unable to attend today because of other obligations to continue the meeting. These are: colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, colleague of Bozič, colleague of Dr. Brejc, Cimperman, colleague of Bebulj until 12 noon, mag. Gračner, Horvat, Jelinčič, from 2 p.m. on will not be a colleague of Kacin, from 3 p.m. on will not be a colleague of Merla, until 1 p.m. will be absent colleague Petan, until 2 p.m. Mag. Vizjak, colleagues Trofenik, Weber and colleague Jaša Zlobec Lukič will also be absent. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, France Puksic. I give the text first to the representative of the drafters of the draft law for supplementary explanations; my colleague Pukšič has five minutes. Please, my friend Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Today is, in fact, not a historic day, but a day when the Slovenian proverb no longer applies - that the crow of the grain it took does not return - this time the crow returns the grains. Thank God that's true. From the beginning, in fact, since 1997, when we have worked through the Infrastructure Committee to recognize those who have invested significantly more in the construction of telecommunications than those in urban settlements, that these, after privatisation, have the right to receive their share in the construction of telecommunications back or to participate in this privatisation, finally happens, through the procedural action of the National Assembly, which can only carry out procedurally what the referendum of citizens and citizens has imposed on it. I regret that it took so much effort and effort to convince a small number of political entourages or some individual politicians only with the referendum decision of citizens and citizens that there was not enough will and power in this Parliament and, of course, in the government to listen to the real arguments and proposals and to draw up the law in the form that it is before us today. History, however, must be said that the Constitutional Court has also been involved in the decision before us today. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has also ordered the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a law enabling those who have overpaid funds, real deposits or physical contributions to return. The fact is that this has been done mainly by people from rural areas, with demographically endangered areas from those areas, which are still the most lagging Republic of Slovenia after 12 years and the relationship between development and underdevelopment is increasing. What would happen if, of course, these citizens, these citizens and citizens had no sense of development and existence so that they would not contribute their own net resources not only to telecommunications but also, of course, to all the other infrastructures. The evidence of those who, among other things, were in need of a return of self-sustainment, such as schools, hospitals, water supply, roads and so on, was unjustifiable and unfounded or justified only if, of course, the privatisation of these social goods had occurred. I hope that we will not see this time and that such anomalies will not occur in our society. That is why we have, thank God, the regulation, this is a referendum, the will of people, citizens and citizens, which so far has shown that they still have the sense and courage to make the right decision at the time of need. Thank you very much. I hope that the procedural pathways that are needed will be carried out by this national assembly, and this law will also be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Puksic for further explanation of the bill. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a competent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The government representative who will be present in the debate on this subject is Dr Boštjančič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Information Society. Presentations of the positions of individual parliamentary groups will now follow. First of all, I'm going to invite my colleague Aloys Sok to the floor. Please, colleague Sok, you have the floor to present the views of your parliamentary group, followed by Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for saying so. My colleagues and colleagues, in fact, I am not surprised that Mr Minister is not here today. So far, he's always been when we've been talking about this issue. After all, it's his big mistake, what we warned him about. And once again, because it is not there, let me say that Nova Slovenija was against the creation of a new ministry, the Ministry of Information Society. However, this ministry has not justified its existence in its work so far. I think we have only adopted three things in this area: a strategy for the development of telecommunications, then we have slightly revised the postal law and the telecommunications law, which has already been drafted by the government of Dr Andrei Bajuk. From that law, Minister Gantar simply excluded the chapter on the return of investment in telecommunications. However, then a kind of law was passed for this area, a law whereby the government and, of course, the great coalition that voted on this law were willing to return only 20 to 40% of what was paid for the development of telephony, mostly in the rural part of the Republic of Slovenia. So because the government, above all, did not want to listen to the beneficiaries and did not want to talk to them, because they proposed that 80% should come back, and probably they were prepared for a percentage less if the minister had listened and he did not want to talk to them - a referendum was, of course, then. And thank God there is still so much honesty in the Slovenian nation. At the referendum, people with a large majority decided, with more than 76%, that if the privatisation of Telekom took place, it would also be necessary to pay those who paid for it. With the referendum, we have spent so much money so additionally, which, now that the government is talking about budget problems, would certainly come in handy, but that is how this government and this great coalition in this country are doing. You are now facing the fact and the fact of the referendum. I hope that you will respect this decision and that, of course, the government and, of course, the Minister will ensure that this law is implemented as soon as possible. But I'm not sure about that, because I listened to the Minister's debate on the committee itself, and it surprised me when he said, "The government will not require an opinion in a constitutional court." Well, the government won't ask for it, but somehow it has indicated that someone else will. In particular, he believes that Article 3 is still at issue, even though the people of the referendum have made a different decision. So it's a game and time-consuming thing. I am not ruling out the possibility that there will be no constitutional judgment because of Article 3 - what the Minister has already announced. And given the recent decisions of our Constitutional Court, I would not be surprised by any decision of the Constitutional Court, which would otherwise have been put to the vote at the referendum. So it's probably not the end of the story yet. But I have to say that the minister missed that convenient time when he could take care of the privatisation of Telekom. At that time, he was more involved with privatisation than he was in directing Telekom. He did very well to see that there was a replacement. He also made sure that Telekom maintained the monopoly, as the European Union reminds us today, and of course the citizens are paying dearly for these decisions. I think we have one of the highest telephone subscriptions in the countries of the European Union. Over 2,000 tolars each subscriber pays on a fixed telephone network for a month, whether or not he makes a phone call. So, these are the facts. The fact is, today, I don't know how many times, we're facing this same problem, and as of today, at least the law will be passed. However, when this law will be implemented, the Slovenian government is, of course, responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I do not see my colleague Pohorc to present the views of the Desus Group, so I now invite my colleague Potrč to the floor, followed by his colleague Sušnik. First of all, he has the floor of his colleague Potrč on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative provides in Article 25 that a decision should be taken by the State assembly within one year of the implementation of the previous referendum, at the latest, to give effect to the referendum. At the referendum held on 19 January this year, citizens and citizens spoke on referendum issues that are the content of the proposed law. At 31.1% of participants voted in favour of 76.72% of participants. The proposed law is prepared in accordance with the referendum question. In view of the above, as a Member, I will respect the law on the referendum and the decision at the referendum and vote in favour of the proposed law. At the same time, I would like to point out that I do not agree with the proposed solutions. First time. With the proposed law, more than 150,000 citizens and citizens who have concluded with Telekom Slovenije’s legal predecessors to obtain a telephone connection will be reimbursed more than the amount paid for the telephone connection at the same place and time by others who have not concluded such contracts. The initial share of the refund amounted to 20-40 per cent of this amount, the total value was 10 billion tolar circus, and the decision taken at the referendum envisioned a 100 per cent refund, the circus amounting to 24 billion. I believe that the basis for return is questionable because it is a bilateral contract in which no one has been forced to. It was concluded in different circumstances and most of these investments have already been depreciated. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about the State's coercion in these treaties and therefore not the injustice that should be corrected. If we followed the logic of this law, we could ask why many investments, contributions for individual purposes, such as apartments that were also privatised, self-contribution, voluntary work in many enterprises that were privatised and similar. Therefore, the law can also create inequality between citizens. And a second time. The decision taken at the referendum is legal. But this referendum, at least in my opinion, is a typical example of our inadequate referendum arrangements. The referendum was at the expense of the State's obligation, i.e. all taxpayers, which were voted primarily by those who had expected from the referendum decision "for" that the funds they had previously invested would be reimbursed. The results clearly show this. That the referendum issue was voted by the Circus 385 thousand voters, if we add up the beneficiaries and their family members, we get a very similar or almost equal number, and that the election participation and the percentage of votes "for" in non-urban environments, from which the beneficiaries are, after reviewing the results, is significantly higher than in urban environments. In non-urban environments, electoral participation is much higher, and the percentage "for" also, electoral participation is almost 50 per cent of the average 30, sometimes up to 90 per cent, in urban environments where there was no direct interest, is the election participation of the circus of 20 per cent and the vote of 50 or more. This confirms the conclusion that interested parties to the referendum voted on the right to return their investments, which they decided many years ago. That is why I think that this decision is economically and morally controversial, but I say once again: I will respect the will and the law, but I expect others to do the same in similar cases so that their substantive disagreement with a solution will not result in violations of the constitution or of the law, referendum or constitutional decision, or even support violations of human rights by other thinkers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. I now invite my fellow Sušnik to the floor. He will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and his colleague, Peca. First of all, Comrade Sušnik, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. I will not say anything new if we support the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network in the Socialist Party. We are convinced that it is high time that this issue, which the National Assembly began to resolve in 1997, is immediately and immediately in line with the outcome of the previous legislative referendum, which was voted by a large majority in this January. The fact that a preliminary legislative referendum has been carried out and voted on this subject shows the great insensitiveness and inability of this national assembly to listen to the key and necessary majority of our citizens and citizens and to resolve a problem in this case, removes the injustices that have occurred in obtaining telephone connections, in accordance with the majority will. I would like to stress in particular that, in order to address this problem, a number of procedures have been carried out, which, in our view, only reflect the will of the majority in this national assembly, the Government's will not to address this issue. The 1999 Constitutional Court’s decision, which explicitly required that the new Telecommunications Act deal with the return of offices, was played out in some sense in that the government was in contravention of the 158th Article of the Telecommunications Act, which was adopted in 2000, and the State Assembly committed the government to prepare this law within six months, which did not happen, but should have happened by 11 November 2001. With much delay, the law was submitted only on 1 February 2002 to address this issue of return to the public telecommunications network. On 16 May 2002, this law was examined and adopted in the National Assembly. Here I would like to stress in particular that all our amendments, which are summarized in the legislative proposal approved in the previous legislative referendum, have been rejected in this legislative process by a large majority of votes, which once more rejected our amendments. As a result, the decision of the State Council, which adopted the veto on the adopted law 23.5. However, the National Assembly reaffirmed the law with 49 votes in favour and 24 votes against. After the marriage proposal was tabled, the story was repeated. The Committee on the Economy reiterated its proposal to the National Assembly to vote that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. As a result, over 70,000 signatures were collected within the framework of a civil society association dealing with this issue. As you know, 19.1. adopted this legislative proposal in the previous legislative referendum. All of this shows that the government and the government coalition avoid any way they can to enforce the Constitutional Court decision and arrange for the recovery of excessive deposits. Leaking is going in such a way that it stopped the privatisation process of Telekom, that because of the intention not to pay back excessive deposits, even a special ministry was set up. We strongly hope that the referendum decision now taken will actually take effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by a colleague of Peče. He's been followed by a colleague of the grandkids. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. The first-signed Mr Puksic said that it took a lot of effort and effort. Here. However, it is necessary to add that it has also taken a long time and that this is one of those legal materials that has been dealt with in our society by all actors, where it has actually been seen that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has opposed the proposed solution and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tried to achieve, in all its means, that matter, that is to say, the objectives and proposals for the resolution of the law, are different, as the Government has said or, as the proponent has asked, and as the people at the referendum have finally confirmed. In the National Party, we estimate that all the complications through the Constitutional Court, the State Council, referendums and thus the required and time-consumed in this area also show that, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the current government do not have a hearing about some form of model that should rule in our society. It should also be noted that the model of privatisation in this area has also fallen on the re-examination exam in our society. The fact is, we don't have a privatisation strategy written down. The story of the telecommunications network, according to our assessment, will not only end with the privatisation of this matter, but it will also be a bad journey for new privatisation models. In the National Party, of course, we will support the proposal of the law, as we have done in previous cases, and we sincerely hope that this time a bill on amendments and additions in the National Assembly will be given sufficient support to respect, in addition to the content, the referendum decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. My colleague Vnučec will now present the position of the Youth Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Anderlič. First of all, my colleague, the Grandchild. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Young Slovenia, when we passed the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, we opposed the way and extent of the return decades ago to the Slovenian telephone of the invested money, work and material resources, as proposed by the government. As we know, this money had to be counted down by all those who wanted to have a phone at home. The more their home was away from the larger centers, the more money they had to contribute. The government has not properly evaluated the law on all these deposits. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia we support the amendment of the law because we are convinced that everyone who has invested in Slovenian telephony needs to be paid back in full. We are pleased that this solution has also been endorsed by the majority in the previous legislative referendum. In this way, citizens have also committed themselves to government parties which have opposed this solution, that no later than one year after the referendum, they must implement the referendum outcome by confirmation in the National Assembly. However, after the referendum, the Minister stated that the government would no longer be in a hurry to sell Telekom at such a referendum outcome, which meant that the beneficiaries of the money would not be able to receive much longer. This is seen as an unacceptable transfer of the government, which wants to bring the thirst over the water again, as it has already done in many other areas. At the Youth Slovenia Party on this site, we remind the government that Slovenia will become a member of the European Union in the second year and that the privatisation of Telekom is required. We therefore hope that if you do not already respect the citizens' will, at least you will comply with the requirements of the European Union. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. My friend Anderlich? You won't present your views. My colleague Kramberger, you will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and we will conclude by presenting our views. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, I would like to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party towards this law. This issue has been addressed by the National Assembly, the parties and the government for more than four years. After us are two laws, an old telecommunications law, a constitutional decision, a new telecommunications law that we have adopted in this mandate, and finally a referendum where people have decided by such a large majority to pay too much or disproportionately paid money to the public telecommunications network. We have been creatively looking for solutions in our parliamentary group to resolve this issue. If you remember the law we discussed, then our amendments weren't adopted, and I think they were good. A better solution was proposed than it had been voted on at the time and perhaps an even better solution than it had now been voted on by this referendum. I must also mention the association that played an important role in this law and referendum. Unfortunately, however, this association and the government, as the bill-maker, have failed to find a dialogue in order to resolve this issue in some compromise way. Of course, the result of the referendum was expected, and we have warned about this several times. In fact, people who have paid more than ten times more than some urban centres have, of course, supported this proposal, i.e. this referendum, and I think so, and we in the Group of Members of this opinion that it is the same. Colleagues and colleagues, in our parliamentary group, we will support this bill. We expect the government to adopt such sub-laws, that this bill will be feasible, that it will not be delayed and that people will actually receive the funds they have paid too much. However, I must also say that we expect that the appropriate time will be chosen for the privatisation or sale of Telekom, where it will be part of the funds used to ensure that those who have paid too much can receive this refund. So we expect the government to perform in the implementation of this law, as it is said, creatively, not to get involved or to find a solution, not to solve it, but to resolve it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much, mag. Kramberger. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been adopted by the competent working body to the draft law, and there is no possibility to discuss them for a meeting of the assembly of these amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The second paragraph of Article 139 provides that voting on the law may take place first after 24 hours after the second reading of the draft law has been completed. The National Assembly will conclude this meeting of the National Assembly this evening and thus this business condition cannot be met. Since the Rules of Procedure require me to determine when the National Assembly will vote, I say that we will decide on the law without discussion, with the exception of explanations of vote, at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At 10.50 a.m., we will move on to the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on humanitarian and charitable organisations submitted by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague of mags. It's a trifle. By 10.50, I'm breaking up the chorus. [[The meeting was suspended at 10.35 p.m. and resumed at 10.52 p.m.]] Respect for colleagues and colleagues, we continue in accordance with the envisaged work plan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u16	We are at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. Agenda items - Second reading of the bill on humanitarian and charitable organizations. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members for consideration by the assembly. Our first-signed colleague, Master Janez Drobnič, is also asked to further explain the proposed law on humanitarian and charitable organisations. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted colleagues and friends. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in its previous composition, decided that a law on humanitarian organisations should also be drawn up in preparation for the law on disability organisations. The Disability Organisations Act has been passed a long time ago, and the Humanitarian Law has not yet been passed. At that time, the government did not carry out its duty, its task of drafting a law on humanitarian organisations. This would give us comprehensive system legislation to regulate the area of charity and humanitarianism and the integration of persons into society. Clearly, this is a kind of abandonment of this problem, and we have therefore decided that some Members of the three parties should submit a law on humanitarian and charitable organisations: Members of the Social Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Youth Party. We discussed the law on the parental committee, and the law didn't get any support. We believe that this is irresponsible work, particularly by the government, to reject some law that is regulated and prepared according to European standards, but does not prepare another text of the law itself, promises it, but is not adopted. I myself mentioned in the procedure that I would withdraw my text if the government prepared its own. However, until the Committee's hearing, she did not do so. The Slovenian state is plagued by problems, is young and is plagued by transition problems. This has proved to be true in some humanitarian organisations, and especially in the Red Cross. This is also due to the fact that this area is not properly regulated and that some in our society are getting excited on the principles of humanitarianism and charity. In particular, it is bad when these operators are active or appear in the role of such organisations. Of course, it is not necessary and inherently necessary to condemn everything in order because we know that this activity has been successfully developed in the Republic of Slovenia. What does the law say? I will read only one paragraph: "Humanitarian and charitable organisations are voluntary and non-profit organisations that act as social, cooperative or social and health institutions set up by persons with disabilities, patients and other assistance, with the aim of implementing specific social programmes and services that mitigate the consequences of disability or illness, equalizing disabled persons and patients' opportunities for creative life and work and other activities relating to the development of social and health care." Well, that's briefly the content of this law. Organizations operate in principle and have components of charity and self-help. They are an important vehicle for expressing the interests of affected persons and providing social protection services. In the Social and Health Care Scheme, they can be an important factor, a public service provider, and this is also defined by law. In the law we have defined activities in the field of health and social services. These organisations are eligible for funding from funding foundations for disability and humanitarian organisations and participate in the development of state measures. For we desire and uphold the principle that those who are hurt shall also decide things. The law also regulates the status of establishment. The Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health have an important role to play in this regard. However, the key area identified in this law is the way in which funds remain in the account, either in the closing account or in the intermediate ongoing investment. We have seen this from the practice most played in the case of some humanitarian organisations. This law is needed for the benefit of people who need our attention in order to integrate into society. In short, this law is necessary, so I appeal that we accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Comrade Drobnič, I will ask you to stay behind the speaker stage because you are first in line to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Before that, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and People with Disabilities proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. I now invite you to present the position of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, for continuing. Unfortunately, I miss representatives of the government, i.e. representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I don't know what their reasons are for not taking part in this, maybe they've heard everything, but I think we should listen to it; this also shows the attitude of the ministry or government to this area, because there was no excuse for that. So in Novi Slovenija we have taken the initiative to prepare this law, and we have also prepared it. As has already been said, Members of other parliamentary parties have also joined the signing. If the principles of humanitarianism and charity were to work in our country, if we had a healthy tradition, then I also risk the word and the position that this law might not have to be adopted. However, because we are in such a turbulent period where these values are still somehow being hunted, such a law is necessary. This law, which is prepared, is complete. It covers, as I said before, all of these categories of people from, we can say, the social perimeters that need help. The Disability Organisations Act, which has been adopted, covers only one segment and this, practice shows, is not specifically regulated. That's when we said why not. The question now arises what disability organisations will do: whether disability organisations will act on the principle of humanitarianism, charity or not, because we will adopt an additional law. How do people from this, let's say to this social circle, that they will participate in or benefit from services, services or the possibilities of these organisations? How do I divide? In the context of humanitarian organisations, should only patients be allowed to join the category of persons with disabilities, which are more than 150,000 in Slovenia? How can you tell the difference? Is multiple sclerosis not disability? Or is cerebral palsy a disability but not a disease? Is muscle dystrophy just a disease or just a disability? These specific questions will arise and they will need to be answered. How do you put all these people, where they're going to be, in which organizations they're going to be in? Therefore, the approach we presented was comprehensive, for the whole area, appropriate and integrated. This would eliminate all of these complications that I have just mentioned. In addition, we will have to tell the world public, the European public what disability organisations are, whether they are humanitarian, or whether they are charitable, or not because they will not be covered by law. So someone was seduced, and someone was aware of this national council. I don't know what the benefits of this are, but in the end, the situation will be well settled. We have decided to put three forms into this law as humanitarian, charitable organisations: institution, cooperative and society. Why? Because humanitarian organisations are those who carry out certain activities in the social and health fields because they represent the interests and also perform certain public services. And in order to satisfy all three things, then it is necessary to give the opportunity to those who establish one or the other or the third form. If you look in Italy, especially in the north, then you see that this activity, at least as far as implementation is concerned, is not a public service, it is declared through the so-called cooperative. Although translation is, we don't want to, cooperatives that, through historical experience, have somehow devalued their importance in our reality. But this way is appropriate, this has proved to be true in Italy and other European countries. Thus, the law regulates the registration of such organisations, the investment of free resources so as not to take place without sanctions, as in certain humanitarian organisations, the level of employees' earnings and also the amount of emoluments, the supervision by the inspection and the Court of Auditors, where the funds go after the possible termination of the humanitarian organisation. It's all under this law. Dear colleagues, are these important areas, important issues that need to be addressed for Slovenian reality? This is crucial and is why this law is needed and, of course, we strongly support it in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Since you mentioned the absence of government representatives, let me just explain that, in accordance with paragraph 134 of the Rules of Procedure, they do not even have the right to speak. Mr Kebrich, who would like to present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, is not. A colleague of Montenegro will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats Group, followed by her colleague, Cukjat. Please, colleague nigger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nicely greeted, colleagues and colleagues! Today, we are discussing a proposal for a law on humanitarian and charitable organisations signed by Janez Drobnič and a group of Members, which was published in the Rapporteur and which was put twice by the home working body of the Slovenian National Assembly for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons at its meetings and, on the third attempt, rejected or proposed, on the basis of an in-depth, systematic and well-managed debate, a decision recommending no prepared material as a suitable basis for further consideration at the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 128(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have also decided, on the basis of a prepared opinion from the Government Service and also from the Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Social Democrats, that we should not support the proposed text. This is also because we felt that a lot of energy should be invested so that the proposed text, which is difficult, conceptually harmonised and aligned with the system and status of the legislation adopted so far, could be changed in the Committee's debate. And what was one of the main leaders of our parliamentary group, the United List of Social Democrats, to decide not to support the proposed text as an appropriate text for further consideration? Certainly also a discussion on the parent’s working body. This showed that the law unfortunately interferes with the basic categorisation of disability and humanitarian organisations or charities and self-help organisations, in such a way that they could not claim to comply with the existing legal order and systematicity in this area. It changes the basic spirit and the concepts of this area that we have addressed so far. In addition, the law is very eloquent and general, and in some areas it may also be unclear and contrary to the terminology already adopted. We can find that it does not resolve the basic dilemmas given in the recital. There is no doubt about the need for law by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, but it also expects that the law will fully systematically regulate the required and important area for the everyday life of all of us. Of course, in the UK Group of Social Democrats, we expect the government to briefly refer this law to the National Assembly for consideration, as this was also a decision adopted by the National Assembly as a commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. My colleague Tsukati will now present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by a colleague of Peca. Let's get my buddy Tucky first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In short, we can see that the operation and funding of humanitarian and charitable organisations is not well-managed enough and that we are in great need of legal regulation in this area. This law should have been adopted even earlier, as was the law on disability organisations, since everywhere in me known countries, it is a top law and only then are disabled persons subsequently subsidized when the law on humanitarian, charitable organisations has already been passed. That this area was not regulated, it was also seen last autumn when a funding programme for these organisations was under way for 2003. We have received copies of a number of complaints from some humanitarian organisations which, of course, opposed the allocation of FIHA funds, mainly referring to some of the anomalies that occur in doing so, mainly because those representatives who actually participate most of the funds are in fact deciding on the allocation of funds. Next. It is also unclear what is happening to these funds in our humanitarian system. Let me just say, the FIHA report on the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations for 2001 shows that only 70% of the funds received have been allocated directly to those who are earmarked and that 25% of these funds are spent solely on their own operations; out of the 407 million, humanitarian organisations have spent as much as 102 million on their own salaries, on their own organisation, on the maintenance and operation of themselves. In doing so, humanitarian organisations have also received large funds that may employ only one or two people in this organization. It's even worse with disability organizations. There they find funds directly for the disabled, that is to say that the disabled receives a direct effect of these funds, only in the amount of 46% of these funds received by the disabled organization. In some disability organisations only 32%, this is said to be less than a third of FIHA's assets, this settles down, that was a billion seven hundred thousand in 2001, came directly to the disabled and to provide and solve his problems. Everything else is lost somewhere. Your Honor, the Red Cross affair is huge, Kirnov is large and we do not have a system to monitor it properly and allow a greater proportion of these funds to reach those who need it. For this reason, we urgently need a law on humanitarian and charitable organisations. Why has this law not yet been passed? Already in March 2000, so, gentlemen, three years ago, the problems of this law were prepared, very well prepared, in line with the ministries, but it was in the drawers somewhere. And last year's dated letter was last November 2002 due to these warnings addressed by the opposition to the National Assembly and the Department of Health. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Is the minister promised - just to finish [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u24	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u25	The minister promised that this would be arranged in January this year. Now, of course, April, and there is no work to be done, so the Ministry of Health is doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much, colleague Tsukati. Mr Peče will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by his colleague Vnučec. My friend Peca first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u27	Dearly represented, at the National Party, we have tried and followed the substance of the law, namely: for the first time, what the law and its contents would bring to the people, on the one hand, to the customers and to those who are in any way related to the law. On the other hand, what the content of the law would bring to institutions dealing with humanitarian, charitable matters. We estimate that in the past, precisely because of the lack of clarity in this area, only the name of humanitarian and charitable organisations has been placed somewhere that should not have been. We also assess that it makes sense, in the form of a law, to have a better definition of the status of humanitarian organisations, their activities, the management of the register, their financing, their property, the cessation of operations and, in the final stage, the criminal provisions. It seems to us that the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which on the one hand defines the law as unclear and is contrary to positive legislation, is totally unacceptable. According to our assessment, it would make sense for a given law to be passed and thus press or stand aside the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accede to the sub-laws. The legal regime of the Republic of Slovenia provides that for specific solutions - and if we already want to move from a declaration level to an operational level - there are, of course, a few possibilities under the sub-laws. According to our assessment, it is no longer possible to trust the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been promising this law in this area for a long time, as in all others. And if we do not join the adoption and thus the commitment under the law to a stronger definition of the status of humanitarian organisations, activities, register management, financing, property, cessation of operations and criminal provisions, I fear that this matter will remain empty, which can also be reflected in the new Red Cross and I do not want to use it or their story for today's debate. In the National Party, we will support the law, especially because we are convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, unfortunately, do nothing in this area, so that the national assembly can commit it to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, buddy. I now invite my colleague the Grandchild to the floor. He will present the position of the Youth Group, followed by his colleague Germič. First, my grandson's friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we agree that the scope of action of humanitarian and charitable organisations must be regulated legally. It is necessary to determine what their powers and areas of action are. The events that we have witnessed in one of these organisations in the last year remind us that the name of a humanitarian or charitable organisation does not necessarily mean economic activity, prior business at the legal border, which has not always been directed at the well-being of those for whom these organisations were established. Under the cover of charity and assistance to those who are needed, transactions were carried out with a view to taking advantage of individuals. However, the damage was not caused only by this organisation, but also by the affair the confidence of people in the charity and integrity of all other humanitarian organisations has been undermined. We must not forget that for the operation of the Red Cross, citizens are also paid mandatory contributions when buying stamps and bus tickets. Therefore, this organisation does not only deal with voluntary contributions, but also with compulsory citizens' contributions. That is why it is all the more important to draw up a system law that will also regulate this area, but not just because of large organisations such as the Red Cross. It is also right that the possibility of equal funding from FIHO funds should also be provided by smaller organisations that provide assistance to specific individuals in need. It is right to equalize all these organizations and enable them, by means of funds intended for all persons with disabilities, patients and others, to act in a clear and just manner. The draft law before us is assessed as an attempt to regulate the way in which we support it in the Youth Party, as it is necessary to ensure equal funding for humanitarian and charitable organisations and to equalise the possibility of all: persons with disabilities, patients and other assistance to the individuals needed. Therefore, this area must be regulated in a clear and just manner, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, charity and humanitarianism. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we can read that the proposal interferes with the basic categorisation of disabled and other organisations and could lead to certain systemic uncertainties. However, these ambiguities in the adoption process can be remedied. On the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, the government warned that it was preparing a law to regulate this area, which was commendable but too late. Therefore, in the Party of Youth Slovenia we welcome the work of the proposer, who has done what the government should have done a long time ago. However, the Government is expected to take a more constructive approach to the bill and, in the form of amendments, to the areas it considers controversial. However, this area needs a system law as soon as possible, as something can happen quickly, that at a time when the government will be preparing its marriage, the Slovenian public will not be pleasantly surprised by another charitable affair in this area. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will therefore support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mr Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, followed by a presentation of opinions by his colleague Brenčič. Please, Comrade Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As already on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, it was presented when the law on disability organisations was adopted that by adopting that law, whose area is also governed by the draft law with the first-signed Mr Janez Drobnik, this is the law on humanitarian and charitable organisations, we want the government to fully regulate this area. At the same time, at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will not support this text for the following reasons. Firstly, the proposal for a law is legally unclear, inconsistent and contrary to positive legislation, as also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion of 18.11.2002. The main reason for rejecting the proposal is in particular the fact that the proposal does not stem from the actual knowledge of the problem of civil society organisations combining the organisations of patients with chronic disease as organisations operating in the field of charity. Among other things, the proposal interferes with the activities of already defined disability organisations and at the same time strengthens the activities of humanitarian organisations such as the Red Cross of the Republic of Slovenia, whose operation is governed by a specific law. Nor does the bill contain important sets of issues, such as the definition of definitions and criteria, preventive programmes and health promotion activities as essential activities of humanitarian organisations combining chronic patients. Unhappily intertwining the terms "patients", "disability" and the undefined notion of "help needed" also creates a terminology confusion. Finally, it should be added that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already drawn up and inter-resortably coordinated its proposal for a law on humanitarian organisations, which also takes into account guidance, recommendations and experience in the countries of the European Union and implements the relevant guidance from the national social protection programme by 2005. In early April, the government proposal also addressed the Social Security Council of the Government, which decided that the law should also be dealt with as soon as possible by the Government and then by the National Assembly. By the time the bill has been discussed and endorsed by the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations until 16 April this year, and the proposal is ready for consideration by the Government, we will not support the proposal for a law with the first-signed mags in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Janez Petty Officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Comrade Germich. Mr Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, due to the correctness of the fact that he is a representative of the Magi's proposal. He mentioned that it would be good for representatives of the Ministry of Labour to sit here and say that the Ministry of Health is responsible for this area. Regrettably, there may be some reason not to seek out government law in this regard. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the intention and purpose of proposing a bill on humanitarian and charitable organisations as a positive approach to the urgently needed normative regulation of this area, which we have long been pointing out to a number of individual Members and to the conclusions of the home working body as well as to the national assembly. Thus, due to the status, organisation and also to the issue of financing and the necessity of regulating this area, a number of organisations and a number of individuals are also referred to the National Assembly. Regrettably, however, a government proposal for a law that would treat this area both substantively and conceptually and systematically in a comprehensive manner and in an appropriate manner, with the expectations of those to whom it is intended, does not come and will not come into the procedure, despite many assurances and promises made. Therefore, the conduct of individual Members, as in this case the applicants of this law, is quite understandable. However, the proposal is prepared, irrespective of the good intentions of the applicants, in substance and even more from a legal and system-wide perspective, as the legal and legal service has pointed out, so that, in view of the practice so far, it would be difficult to upgrade it in the further stage of consideration and adoption, in order to ensure or succeed in its implementation as a final product. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we are familiar with the text of a bill for which the preparation of the Ministry of Health is the competent one and for which it can be said that it is significantly better or more comprehensive and more legal system-wide that regulates the field of humanitarian and charitable organisations. However, we do not understand that the Government does not and does not decide to put the proposal into the procedure of the national assembly. If this is the cause of the financial issue, this can be resolved in one way or another through the transitional and final provisions of the law. However, it is not possible, and it is also incorrect for the Government to continue to delay the introduction of a bill into the procedure of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we will support the conclusion of the parent working body, because unfortunately, as I have already said, the bill, despite the good intentions of the applicants, is virtually hard to build so that it can also be implemented effectively in practice. However, we expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do what we expect from it for a good time, and a proposal for a law that is more or less harmonised, and to put into the procedure as soon as possible. This also provides for the possibility of setting up procedures for certain corrections or corrections or amendments to two key acts relating to the financing of humanitarian and disability organisations, such as the Foundation's rules and the Fund's rules on the allocation of funds. I also thank, on this behalf, as Chairman of the Committee, the proposers, that, as far as they have done the right thing and that we have deferred the consideration of this law from the meeting to the meeting, there has been a need for a single law to be adopted in accordance with the rules of procedure. That is why the proposal for a decision is here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Comrade Brenčič, with your presentation we have concluded a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a bill of humanitarian and charitable organisations. The competent working body proposes to the national assembly that it is not suitable for further consideration.We will vote on this proposal in accordance with the timetable for today's meeting at 18.15 p.m. Until then, we interrupt this agenda item. I predict that at the scheduled time, at 11:30 a.m., in two minutes, we will begin with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Real Estate Intermediation Bill. However, until the beginning of the consideration of this proposal prepared by the Government for third reading, I am adjourning the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u35	We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to four. - That's on three. It's a proposal for a law on non-property mediation. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Janez Kopach, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. You have before you the proposal for a law on real estate mediation before the third hearing. It has been a long time, with the very intensive cooperation of many Members, and I am pleased to note that all three systemic objectives of the bill, namely consumer protection, protection of public interest and concern for the further development of the profession in this area, are supported and further expressed in all the debates and the adoption of your amendments to individual articles. The regulation of legal bases ensures legitimate expectations of raising the quality of services, on the one hand, the data that will serve public records in this area will, on the other hand, contribute to stronger assessments of the adequacy of the country's land and housing policy, to the market valuation of real estate and to analyses of other developments in the real estate market. Let me draw your attention to the additional proposals that have now emerged in this third reading. The Government has tabled two more editorial amendments to Articles 13 and 25. Please support them. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party has tabled an amendment which discusses the compulsory knowledge of the Slovenian language. The government of this amendment does not support it. Not because I would not advocate the compulsory knowledge of Slovenian language in business with customers, but because it is already quite appropriate, it is systematically regulated in the consumer protection law. It should be added that such a legal requirement proposed in the amendment would be contrary to the Treaty on European Community, which prohibits discriminatory barriers to the free movement of workers in Article 39. Once again, the mandatory knowledge of Slovenian in business has already been ordered. We have received further proposals from the Chamber of Economics, which are not otherwise expressed in the form of amendments. It may be necessary to point out that their comments regarding the establishment of real estate records and the records of the tax administration on real estate may concern this or may predict that this provision will still need to be upgraded by appropriate interpretation in terms of ensuring the best possible records or comprehensive coverage of real estate transaction data. We are at the end of the adoption of this law. I propose that you support the two government amendments so that you do not support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. However, after the second reading, I predict two harmonisation amendments of an editorial character, which I believe will not be a dilemma or a dispute in their adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let me remind you of the time of the reported debate, LDS 9 minutes, SDS 20 minutes, United List 5, SLS 15, Nova Slovenija 15 and Slovenian National Party 5 minutes. Time for a joint debate on the law as a whole and on amendments. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups first to present their views on the draft law. First of all, Aloyz Sok, Nova Slovenija, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, the law that is before us and which is needed could be better, as it is, and will, we are sure, cause some difficulties in its implementation. I will try at this time to draw my attention, as far as I can see, to those provisions of this law, which will be a practical problem. The first such problem is already in the non-conformity of Article 5. In contradiction, they're the first and the fourth paragraphs. Whereas the first paragraph provides that the commission shall determine as a percentage of the contract value, the fourth paragraph shall then give the Minister the opportunity to lay down more detailed criteria and conditions. This is therefore an infringement of the law itself, when the law so provides. We have already pointed out these provisions in previous discussions, and we have also tabled amendments, but unfortunately not successful. That is why I am now saying that this will present a particular problem and that the various participants in these proceedings will be able to circumvent the law in one way or another. Furthermore, Article 6 gives the Minister the power to amend the insurance conditions. While the insurance sum in Article 6 is very low and does not take into account the turnover of individual real estate companies at all and it is determined irrespective of the size of the real estate company in very low amounts, it gives the Minister the opportunity to adopt and prescribe insurance conditions each year. This is not well regulated from the point of view of legislation. Article 9 I have to correct the Minister here: because the Slovenian National Party has not tabled an amendment, but the amendment has been tabled by Nova Slovenija. This, of course, indicates that the government has not taken this amendment seriously because it does not even know who filed it. However, it is a matter of proposing that at the time when a foreign natural person carries out real estate transactions in the Republic of Slovenia, knowledge of the Slovenian language would also be one of the conditions. This is, however, a condition - we have tabled this amendment in previous stages, but it has been rejected. Thus, the consumer protection law does speak of this, but we are aware that in some other areas, despite the fact that the consumer protection law contains this provision, certain problems arise. Therefore, once again with the amendment at this third stage, we propose that this be recorded in this special law for the operation of real estate companies. It can't mean any harm if we record, under other conditions, that a foreign natural person, if engaged in real estate transactions in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, must be able to master the Slovenian language as defined in our law. We can imagine that when Slovenia enters the European Union, quite a few foreign natural persons will want to carry out this activity in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that it will be more frequent. It is good to protect the Slovenian language in this way with our laws. After all, we have been warned by the European Union, the Commission of the European Union, that Slovenia is underprotective of Slovenian. It is a proposal, and I suggest that you reconsider this amendment. Otherwise, you said that the government did not support it, but because you cited the wrong proposer, somehow you did not convince me that the government was seriously discussing this amendment at all, but you quickly assessed that you did not support this amendment. Then, in at least two articles, paragraphs 27 and 28, this law introduces enormous red tape into the work of these real estate companies, as it imposes upon these companies even a set of records to keep in their work. Among other things, Article 27 states that real estate companies must keep records of technical property data. It's such an indeterminate concept that you practically don't know what that means. How will a company maintain technical data on sold houses? Does this mean that it has to keep track of what installations are built in, what kind of appliances, materials are built in? I don't know, I just can't imagine it, and I don't know what that means, because it's an extremely broad and stretching concept. To maintain technical data on real estate. It's very indefinable. We have warned of these two articles, paragraphs 27 and 28, even in the debate, and we have somehow wanted the number of these records to be reduced, the number of these bureaucratic procedures to be reduced, but not that these procedures are duplicative, that the legal obligations themselves are unclear. I would also like to draw attention to Article 34. This law prescribes enormously high penalties. I have repeatedly warned in this House that punishment must be brought up, not destructive. The sentence at stake is between 3 and 30 million. For example, if you impose the highest penalty on a small society, that means destruction for such a society. I was on my own when I was in inspection, and I've experienced this a number of times. In particular, the market inspection had the right to punish such high penalties. If you have punished a small merchant who committed a crime, often even insignificant, with a few million, then it means not punishment for such a merchant, but destruction. What did you do about it? You've achieved this by destroying him, and as such, he's landed on the labour market or somewhere else. The destruction of the family is most often involved. I'm warning you because I know this stuff from my own part. But there was no hearing to hear it. The argument was that the punishment was from-to. A judge can punish so much or so. That's right. But if the law allows him to do so, then there is no record that it will not prescribe the highest possible penalty. Why not if the punishment is such a stretching term? I would like to draw attention to another article, which is a transitional provision. It is illogical and unnecessary, I would say, the burden that those who have already obtained permission to carry out a real estate business, that those who have already passed a certain professional examination not to list where, under law, this obligation is once again imposed on them. So this is an intervention into some already acquired right. In accordance with this law, they must regain professional qualifications for this work within one year of the adoption of this Act. I'm not saying anything about the law saying that they have to be educated on a permanent basis, because that's a fact. But to tell them that they have an expert exam that they have already passed, I have to mention this, a very undefined article, what is actually the content of their professional examination, once again, of course, that is illogical. On the one hand, you charge them financially; on the other hand, you increase bureaucracy for this purpose. All the government's efforts to reduce bureaucracy in this country have faded and are not credible with such proposed laws. These are the comments. I do not repeat them for the first time on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. I told them at first reading, then we tabled the amendments. Unfortunately, amendments have not been adopted, nor have they been adopted, such as this one, which speaks of foreign natural persons having to speak Slovenian language in real estate business in Slovenia. In fact, I am very sorry that a law will be passed that will not be good. Marriage could be much better. I agree, however, that we need the law because this area was messy. As a result of such shortcomings that I have listed, our parliamentary group cannot support the law. It's just that we can't agree to the thesis that it's better to have a bad marriage than none. It was time, and if the Minister wanted to hear it, it would be possible for this law to be rectified and improved accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you, Comrade Sok. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by a colleague of Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you, Vice President. Hello, well-respected colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a real estate intervention law that has undergone a number of qualitative changes since the first draft. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the law, together with amendments proposed by the Government and those adopted by the Committee after a very deep and comprehensive treatment, involving representatives of civil society, consumer associations of Slovenia, the independent economic interest association of real estate companies, the information exchange of real estates and others, will contribute to the creation and expansion of the Slovenian real estate market, some of which some 300 real estate companies are estimated to operate today, which is the primary activity of real estate. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we expect that, due to the requirements of the law, more sellers and buyers will be decided to sell or purchase with the help of intermediary companies, as this will be safer so that the level of quality of intermediate services currently not in the supply is levelled and systemically regulated. We also expect the work to be done more professionally, systematically and qualitatively, as the conditions for carrying out this activity are significantly increased and are more difficult, as the requirements for real estate intermediaries to have a licence and that the real estate company or its employees have concluded liability insurance, a guarantee for safe and good business, that the market will be more speeded up with the assistance of the competent ministry, that intermediaries, with their expertise and experience, will contribute to the creation of even better industry and activity rules and that the activity will be further updated as such. We expect that those who are the weakest members of the chain will also be provided for in real estate traffic. With regard to the complementary text setting out the minimum value of real estate, which was very much debated, this provision is expected to be put in place and that this fact will not block the traffic in small estates such as garages, hives, different parcels, lawns and the like. Article 9 also provides for the possibility of temporary withdrawal of an operating licence, which only increases the level of security of the individual and of the service itself, and even paragraph 3 provides for cases where the licence for carrying out the activity is permanently withdrawn, thereby increasing the liability for the performance of the work. Here I just want to say that some real estate brokers are so high that this measure is also objectively needed. In Article 22, we have requested and also succeeded in withdrawing the requirement for a legal examination, since there is no need for representation before a court for such and similar cases after interpretation. The proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act, together with other laws such as housing law, building law, land regulation law and part of the legislation which regulates the area in general, substantially regulates the whole area and substantially contributes to a quality level of intervention and activities in this area. We therefore rightly expect in the UK Group a major change in this area, which will regulate the segment in such a way as to protect the public interest and protect consumers and users, in particular to assist and protect those ignorant parties, whose right to know. The law, together with the government amendments in the United Nations Group, will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Jože Tanko will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good-bye to all of you. The Real Estate Intermediation Act clearly aims to regulate the situation in an area that has taken place for a number of years in a fairly free and uncontrolled manner. During the period following the change in the socio-economic system, the State released a wave of entrepreneurship initiatives and allowed all citizens to set up legal entities with small initial capital for a wide variety of fields and activities. This simplification was necessary in order to relax the entrepreneurial interest and to enable many to make it easier for them to move from the difficult times of downturn and restructuring of businesses, as well as to make the ownership and transition process rather burdensome. After about ten years, when most of this transition revolution was carried out and interests were distributed, the time for remodeling, the time of acute cleansing and concentration also began in the area of real estate intervention. At least that's the way to understand the bill. What has not been done by the market at this time will be made again by policy and will dilute the types of real estate intermediaries. It is clear that large and influential real estate companies have succeeded with their aspirations and lobbying in government courts and have obtained a significantly greater market share by law than they have so far managed. In particular, the law will affect small real estate intermediaries who have fulfilled the conditions and provided real estate services following the law so far. I would like to point out that in the Socialist Party's Group, we are leaning towards a more flexible approach and a gradual application of the individual provisions of the law relating to the fulfilment of the conditions of real estate intermediaries. We believe that, after all these years, more or less pronounced lax provisions for the pursuit of activities and for the establishment of companies are not the most appropriate sharp and jump-starting transition. While we support guidance, we believe that these conditions should be extended for a longer period. The gradual application of more demanding operating conditions would, in our opinion, force real estate intermediaries to assess their abilities and prospects themselves and to decide to continue their activities. Certainly, the stricter provisions of the law and liability insurance for damage, and in particular the high penalties at risk, will significantly increase consumer protection. We advocate that all those who, on the day of the entry into force of this Act, do not fulfil the conditions of education or practice, and that other important provisions of the law will be fulfilled, issue a licence. Anyone wishing to obtain a real estate licence after the law has been enacted should be subject to the provisions of this newly adopted law. I believe that there is no particular need for political interference with the rights acquired, as these are, in some other areas, fragilely maintained. However, it is essential that matters become more acute in legal and business traffic and that the primary responsibility is increased. Certainly, due to insufficient precise provisions of the Bond Relations Act, there have been many abuses and acts of both real estate brokers and buyers. The provisions governing legal traffic also make sense. These are much more difficult and strict, the maximum commission is, although in our view it is still too high and allows for great profits for relatively simple and non-risk services. It was the commission that caused the most involuntary and allowed for the greatest manipulation and abuse. The penalties imposed by the law are extremely high. Such high penalties are already a feature of this department. No other proposer is so strongly inclined to impose excessive sanctions. We believe that this should be much more aligned with the Slovenian situation. It may be reasonable to consider different levels of penalties for the first and for each further approach in the future. We will not support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much for this position. Following is the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and colleague Sašo Peče. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u44	In the national party, we will not repeat everything that has been said through the 24th and 23rd meetings of the National Assembly in 2003, 25.3., but we would like to refer to three sets of issues. For the first time, about a free and uncontrolled real estate market, which, according to our assessment in the past, has indeed created a Slovenian economy in this area and has had one very negative effect. This is neglecting one party in the process, especially the buyer, the unprotected one. It follows that we find it reasonable and necessary to approach a new law, the basic and essential element of which will certainly also be the protection of the customer. On the other hand, it is appropriate to point out correctly that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister of State has recently done quite a lot in real estate law. Of course, we will still have to meet on a case-by-case basis, especially as far as we are concerned, but I think this is the substance of the second debate. However, I would like to return to this law, which is still an assessment of the fact that the law has preserved all three basic elements, such as the Minister or the Applicant, in previous speeches. These are consumer protection, protection of public interest and the development of real estate, on the one hand, the credibility of intermediaries and, of course, this is a good sign for decision-making at the end of today. Thus, all elements remained in the process between the second and third readings. However, I would like to define our disagreement with some speakers, particularly those who are talking about high claims that will await real estate companies, namely the requirement for knowledge, education, professional examination, work experience, licences and these things. We estimate in the national party that it is okay, that we also regulate these measures legally, because we estimate that this will make it easier and, above all, protect the real estate buyer. This is what is most important to us in our decision-making in the Slovenian national party. If we have to decide between both actors, on the one hand, buyers and sellers, it makes sense for us to protect the buyer in this area. However, we would like to touch on two more chapters, commissions and penalties. True, the commissions in this law are high. For a long time, we discussed how to reduce the commission percentages within our parliamentary group. On the other hand, it is true that the penalties under this law, as one of the speakers pointed out before me, are high, which seems to me to be the case personally and in the national party's own group. Let them continue to be too large for transactions where there is a large commission, even though our estimate is still too large, too large a penalty. According to our assessment, the amount of the commission is acceptable only on the condition of the high penalty and, of course, the consistent implementation of the penalty. In the last part, I would like to touch the amendment to Article 10: "A foreign natural person cannot carry out business of a real estate intermediary if he does not know the Slovenian language. The knowledge of the Slovenian language is proven by public documents." In our client we assess - and of course we will support the amendment - that in just such an important and challenging area as real estate mediation, such content should be in law. Because the fact is that in the process, communication or sales between the buyer and the seller will require knowledge of the Slovenian language - and not of any other language - but of those mentioned in the second sentence of the amendment, i.e. "the knowledge of the Slovenian language is proven by public documents" - is also necessary. In the National Party, we appeal to all members of the National Assembly, to all parliamentary groups and, above all, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to change their views on the amendment with a request for knowledge of the Slovenian language and, for the first time, to help customers, and for the second time, to contribute to the preservation of the Slovenian language in the future also in this area. We urge that we change our decision to say that the amendment is still kind and desirable. However, since I fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not do so, I appeal to the Members to support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you. The position of the SLS Group will be presented by colleague Janez Podobnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Allow me to give the position of the Group on the proposal for a law on real estate mediation in the third reading, i.e. a view to the law as a whole. After a good year, when I, as a Member, tabled my proposal for a law on real estate brokering, in some way encouraging the government to propose its own law after that, there is a very successful period behind us to look for the possibility of regulating the functioning of the real estate market. Today's adoption of the bill [[Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group to Support Law]] Slovenia will become one of the countries in which the real estate market will be very transparent and will be particularly well cared for to protect consumers, to protect public interest and also to facilitate the business of real estate intermediaries and, not least, to develop the real estate profession. Thus, the competent ministry, associations of real estate intermediaries, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, real estate companies and non-governmental consumer protection organisations have aligned themselves on the path of creating and adopting this law in the government and national assembly processes, to the extent that, in our opinion, there is no further dispute between them on this issue. Therefore, before us is the legal basis for the real estate market under market economy conditions with a clearly defined regulatory and supervisory role of the State, which will now bear a great responsibility to ensure equal opportunities for all market participants. In the third reading, the government proposed only two supplements, both essentially editorial in nature and we will support them in the parliamentary group. However, we would like to draw attention to the amendment that lays the groundwork for foreign real estate intermediaries in Slovenia, namely the knowledge of Slovenian language. In the Group of Members, we understand the reasons for adopting such a provision. However, it is necessary to know that similar restrictions will also apply to our real estate intermediaries abroad, even though they will operate in the common European market. In our view, in cooperation with the proponents, by supplementing this amendment, we could find a way to avoid being discriminatory in anything, that is to say that it would not allow the operation of foreign real estate intermediaries in Slovenia as an activity and would somehow make it legal for them to know Slovenian in contact with the parties. I will then, as a member of the debate on the amendment itself, propose such a solution. If the applicants agree, I think that business is still possible, in this way this amendment could then be acceptable to the vast majority of Members and Members. The individual provisions of the law are certainly the product of compromises between the different interests prevailing in the real estate market and will certainly have a slight impact on individual stakeholders. I have also taken up my own acceptance phase to fully recognise the forms of education and verification of the knowledge of real estate intermediaries, especially as a reward for those who have voluntarily decided on education and have actually contributed most to the adoption of this law today. On the other hand, the argument is that the real estate area has become so important that it is almost no longer more than a few months before there is any new regulation that should substantially change the conditions for its operation. Therefore, it is appropriate to listen to this argument, according to our assessment. We therefore support the solution that real estate intermediaries will have to carry out an additional test of knowledge and also to be educated regularly in the future. It is similar with the criterion of the educational threshold for access to the profession of a real estate intermediary, where the law sets a fairly high VI. level of education for new entrants in this profession. We have noted that those who have been successful as real estate intermediaries for at least three years can continue their work with the completed V level of education. Those who do not meet any of the envisaged criteria will have four more years to complete the envisaged education when the law is in force. Older intermediaries may be affected. This has been discussed today by some colleagues on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Older intermediaries who have worked successfully so far with vocational education and may have to attend a higher school just before retirement. It should be noted, however, that owners of real estate companies and other intermediaries who do not meet the required criteria may continue to operate in real estate companies, not directly as real estate intermediaries. However, they will be able to employ or establish different contractual relations with intermediaries that meet the statutory criteria. Slovenia is not a lonely example of a country where there are slightly higher criteria for access to this profession. In the near future, for example, Italy will join such a club, which, by implementing new legislation in this area, envisages an increase in the threshold from secondary to the next level of education. After the adoption of this law, there will be a competent ministry, as well as real estate companies and intermediaries, as well as only a real estate profession, many challenges. The Ministry will have to prepare some sub-legislative acts within a short period of time, including the skills programme required for the conduct of the professional examination. The examination committees will need to be formed and the first examination deadlines set for the conduct of the examinations will need to be laid down. It will be necessary to verify the training programmes so far and to determine the extent of the skills that will have to be acquired by all the intermediaries who have conducted the skills tests following the education programmes so far. All these tasks should take place at the highest possible level of expertise and in cooperation with all organisations that have demonstrated their legitimate interests in the process of drafting and adopting this law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are pleased that we have been able to complete a project in the coalition, which we have already set ourselves in the process of adopting a coalition agreement, even indicating that we will not be able to complete it in this mandate. In this way Slovenia opens its real estate market, with full membership in the European Union. This also means, of course, that within a year all persons from the Member States of the European Union will also be subject to the same criteria for buying real estate as Slovenian citizens. All other candidate countries have protected their real estate market through relatively long transitional periods. It is known that Slovenia, on the basis of the Spanish compromise, has, unfortunately, already had to open its own real estate market in part. Can we turn this fact into our advantage, or can we say, if we are somewhat confident that the opening of the real estate market will also be a competitive advantage of Slovenia for the direct foreign investment that is worth making the most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you, and Jože Ašič, for the LDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, the Minister and the President. I do not think I need to be as long as the predecessors or as Mr Podobnik has presented the law very thoroughly. In the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia, of course, we are pleased that the adoption of this law will resolve one of the areas that has been completely open and subject to some wild market conditions in Slovenia. This law will regulate the relationship between the two types of consumers and, of course, the real estate intermediaries. In particular, we also discussed a lot on the Infrastructure Committee and our Group of Members that we have clarified in fact that this law actually deals with two types of consumers. Both those whom we all understand are direct real estate buyers, as of course real estate owners, who choose to sell their property with the help of the intermediary. As soon as they become contracting entities and enter into a contract with the provider of this service, these consumers also become real estate owners. This law seeks to regulate as fairly as possible the relations between one, another and, of course, the third, in a way which we believe will at least satisfy at this stage all the different opinions and requirements that we have witnessed in the preparation of the law. I am aware that some areas may be somewhat controversial, perhaps even questionable. Even in our parliamentary group, we have been those who have been as open-minded as possible to the market economy in this area, it is said, without excessive restrictions on commissions and leaving this area of market orientation as those who, on the other hand, have been more strict in protecting the interests of only that part of consumers that we understand as direct buyers of real estate. We can be satisfied with the solution that, while we have the highest limit in the fifth article, we also have an open possibility of direct agreement between the intermediaries and the contracting authority and the buyer for the property. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law, expecting that the Ministry of Environment and Space will also do everything to ensure that this law is applied as best as possible in practice with the relevant regulations that follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. I'm putting an end to this part of the debate. I am fully opening the debate of Members and Members on the draft law. I give my word to Aloyz Sok. Reported in the order in. [[He doesn't want to discuss it.]] Joseph Jerovšek? [[He's not here.]] Jože Ašič just spoke, general discussion of the law in its entirety. Branko Kelemina? [[He's not here.]] Leopold Kremjar? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u50	The law is necessary and it is good that we have it so that this area will be regulated by law. This ensures consumer safety under this law. And that's the point. This is where the law should stop, in my opinion. That's why it is and why it's good, it's good, and why it has to be. Unfortunately, there are some things in marriage, or most of them are things that I think would be better off if they weren't. In particular, I am talking about Article 5, which is bureaucraticly involved in an agreement between the seller and the buyer and does not leave the market open to market regulation to do its work in the way it should be done. In combination with the first and fourth paragraphs of Article 5, there is a risk that this red tape will continue and deepen within. That is why I do not like this article, and I have already said several times about this law, if it were what I think it should be, then these restrictions would not be and the market itself would have handled these things well enough. I'm sure it's for the good of everyone else. Equally, I do not think it is necessary that we have a change to a system concerning the issue of licences in such a way that these licences will now be issued by the Ministry. I am deeply convinced that the Ministry should only prescribe the conditions - how a person or business comes to a license, what it must have for it, what knowledge, who can intervene and who checks them. In short, the process of how to do this. But not to tolerate it, because of that, of course, we're just going to put an extra burden on the ministry. Above all, it is problematic that we do not have other areas regulated in this way. We are now taking a certain segment from the whole society, which we will regulate in this way and other areas will be regulated in a different way. I stand here for a general, similar or equal line as to these things. In short, on the one hand, my almost enthusiasm is that the law will regulate and protect the consumer and that what is essential will offer and guarantee that there will be no double sales and so on. On the other hand, these shortcomings, which I think are completely unnecessary, and a very good law will only be handicapped in some area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you, fellow Kremjar. My colleague, Davorin Terchón, would have received the word, but he is not present. Does the motioner want a word? [[No, no, ……]] This concludes the debate on the draft law as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 17.4.2003. Thus, I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. The word is wanted by Minister Kopach.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. First of all, I apologize for replacing the proposaler earlier. As far as this amendment to Article 10 is concerned, it is unacceptable. I can't say it's possible. Article 10 refers to the conditions for deleting from the real estate brokers' directory. The right article, if we wanted to apply such an amendment, would be Article 9. But I do understand that Article 9, which was not amended in second reading, was not open and that the amendments could not be tabled. This amendment is actually a little unusual. Entry into the directory of real estate intermediaries would be possible without the knowledge of the Slovenian language. When deleted, the article that speaks of deletion would be added here: "There are natural persons who cannot carry out the business of a real estate intermediary if they do not master the Slovenian language." You understand that it's a little unusual. In short, you put it in your phone book and then you delete it. And that's what needs to be stressed. The Consumer Protection Act and Article 39 of the Accession Treaty to the European Union speak of language skills not as a condition for entry into the market but as a condition for communication with the parties. Yeah, that's allowed. That's why we would support your intention, but if it were to be written, not as it says here, but if you correct the amendment, for example, I'm giving an example, in the fourth paragraph, which now has four points, add another new fifth point, so we're talking about deleting it from the register, this fifth point, for example, if it were to read, "The real estate agent is deleted from the register if we don't agree with the customers in an understandable language." This is something that you once added in the form of an amendment to the proposal for a medical service law. It's a learned diction from there, which, of course, is still acceptable. The text you've proposed, but for nomotechnical reasons, understand, somehow it's not acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the proposer of this amendment, Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much. This amendment is proposed by the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u55	I'm sorry, I thought [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u56	I am alone on the part of the New Slovenia Group of Members in charge of dealing with and taking the position of our Group of Members. So it is certain that we have tabled this amendment from this fact because we are aware of the importance of protecting Slovenian, if you want Slovenian, in all areas. For if anything is threatened at the time of entry into the European Union as, I would say, national interest, then it is certainly Slovenian cultural identity, including in the first place with Slovenian language, if we do not take care to protect our own mother tongue. I have already said on my own several occasions in this National Assembly and also other Members that the Commission of the European Union has in fact warned us about this. We do not yet have a roof law on the protection of the Slovenian language. I don't know why this law doesn't come to Parliament despite the fact that there are a number of laws that we have on the agenda, such as this one at this April session, and so many important laws, such as the law on the protection of the Slovenian language, are on the side. But well, that's not the topic now. Well, we're talking about this amendment. I understand this dilemma raised by Mr Minister, if that is what the majority of Members are prepared to put in place in this law only a protector and through law they are committed to working with the parties in an understandable language - and I myself understand that this is Slovenian in the field of the Republic of Slovenia - but that in some real estate transactions there may also be another language in dealing with representatives of foreign embassies and so on - not to mention - I am agreeing on behalf of our parliamentary group on this. We will make this amendment, which we have tabled, and put it in corrected form, by adding a new fifth indent to the fourth paragraph, which reads: "If we do not agree with the parties in it in an understandable language." So, I'm predicting a change in our amendment. I have already agreed that this is possible and we will try to submit it in writing as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. A colleague, Janez Spožnik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, the provision of this amendment is by no means a key provision of this law. It happens to us several times that we somehow get caught when we adopt a law, and then the problem of the implementation of the status of the Slovenian language becomes unwitting. However, it is very important that we take this content very seriously. If we went to look at the content of the law, then it is understandable that the amendment, as in good faith, was written by colleagues from Nova Slovenije - as it is written - does not at all fall within Article 10, which speaks of the withdrawal of the licence and the removal from the name of the real estate intermediaries, but most likely to be judged in Article 9. However, since this was not an amendment, you tried to bring him in business in Article 10. So there is a problem and the solution to this problem is also important with regard to our relationship with the European Union and also with ours, I would say, the legal ingenuity to write down standards that in no case can be disputed in terms of the Association Agreement. It would be interesting if we took a look at the provision of Article 7, which referred to the issue of a licence, then at Article 9, which referred to a foreign natural person, and at Article 31, which referred to the competence of the Ministry, at last to a regulation to which the Minister would determine the content and manner, such as the form of the licence to carry out the business. And if we put all of this together, then it would probably be the right solution and it would not be discriminatory at all if we found no way to write it into the law, that a foreign natural person would not be able to communicate with a party in Slovenia in an understandable language, just to get her license. So this amendment is in an article that is linked to the withdrawal of the licence. This is said to be formally not a condition for obtaining a licence, but if in practice it turns out that a foreign natural person, who will also be a real estate broker, will not be able, for example - without speaking German to representatives at the German Embassy, but would not be able to communicate with a party who is Slovenian and speaks Slovenian, in an understandable language, that is, the Slovenian language, nor could the Minister take away her license. And in my opinion, such a provision of the law will not be disputed for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek is the next discusser.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I myself support the purpose and tendencies of this amendment. I think the real estate law is absolutely necessary. Now, if the proponents change some of this amendment's dictatorship and its placement in Article 10, then of course I am ready to support this too, although I strongly support the provision in the law to prove the knowledge of the Slovenian language through public documents. Look, this amendment needs to be looked at in a slightly changed light right now. Following a decision by the Constitutional Court on so-called deleted, which was not deleted for me, but written out, which once self-exposed and did not acquire Slovenian citizenship, and we know that it was those persons who once did not want to speak Slovenian, who insulted Slovenian citizenship, the Slovenian state, who were also engaged in considerable business. Here they are, there are many lobbying on this market. However, I think that the law must ensure that in this area, the real estate area, there is no ever, by chance, any real estate mafia that could be involved in Slovenia through foreign natural persons. We know that some transactions are often used as an expression that some parts of the business in Slovenia, for example, are controlled by the so-called 'green mafia'. This is not in the real estate area, but we know exactly what kind of work it is. If we adopt the necessary restrictions in the law, which will in some way limit these issues, we can avoid such irregularities. I think that the concern for the Slovenian language in all marriages is not excessive, but that it is absolutely necessary and it is perfectly normal for those who want to communicate with customers in Slovenia who use their mother tongue to carry out real estate transactions and to intervene in real estate transactions to also master Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. More mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps you all know that the intention of this amendment has been entirely dignified and, from a substantive point of view, clear. Even if we had amended Article 10 in this way, we could have brought this into Article 9 through the harmonisation amendments in the final text of the law. This has already happened in the National Assembly, I think many times, and there would be no problems. However, let us not complicate it, because we just want to incorporate the substantive provision into the law, the content, the intent and the objective, then, of course, it is also possible in this way. That is why we have in fact tabled a change in the dictatorship of this amendment. At the same time, I would stress once again that the amendment has been quite properly prepared, that it could also be followed by nomotechnics and that we could solve this matter through the legislative process, probably a little more difficult, but that is also our decision not to cause any further complications.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. My friend Peca, you don't have any more time available because you've already spent it. Procedural? That's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u64	I'd like to express my regret. I don't think it's fair that I don't get a word as a representative of the National Party. Just give me a second, please. Look, there's just been a new diction of the amendment. How should the parliamentary group anticipate that the contents of the amendment will be amended in advance? That's absolutely impossible! And it would be equally impossible for the Slovenian National Party to announce four more minutes to discuss. Therefore, I ask that, with this new fact, so that there will be a proposal for a new content of the amendment, you should grant an additional time to discuss. Because otherwise - I have to say this here - we will start reporting the maximum time at the National Party for discussion. Because this means that you are actually making it impossible to talk about some of the innovations that occur during the debate itself in the National Assembly. It is not in my interest that the Slovenian National Party should delay, but if the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly are not so flexible and allow at certain times when changes are being made, we will not be left with the national assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly, but we will always be able to take the lead in the maximum time of discussion in all the proposed laws. The decision is on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u65	This is partly true, but the schedule of meetings is prepared in accordance with your suggestions, as far as anyone wants to discuss it, and so I am holding a meeting. When you've spent your time, I'm afraid you don't have a chance anymore. It is true, however, that it is possible to withdraw, amend or supplement its amendment by the end of the discussion. And if you want to discuss this now, I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for your elasticity. I think that your decision is correct, especially if this practice is continued in the National Assembly, as it would lead to a calmer atmosphere. But to the amendment itself. I also personally assess that the amendment to Article 10 makes sense, i.e. the need for the knowledge of the Slovenian language, to be adopted, because in the final stage - one of the speakers also stressed and I think it is useful to stress once again - it is finally possible to implement this content in Article 9 or Article 2. However, I would like to add to the matter, because I said in my presentation to the parliamentary group that we intend to support the law, I must say - conditionally. If we also introduce an amendment with such content into the law, we will support it in the National Party. Therefore, the law would be supported if it were that "persons engaged in such transport, i.e. real estate mediation, should have mastered the Slovenian language", with the addition, "the knowledge of the Slovenian language is proven by public documents". This is a case we have already predicted on 25.3.2003 at 17.08, when we announced the third reading. At that time, we believed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would come up with a proposal with such an amendment, because in the final stage the amendment fell by only one vote. We met with a similar amendment, 29 Members voted in favour, up to 30. And in the National Party once again and probably for the last time around today's law: if, according to our assessment, the National Assembly has so much wisdom that it will also protect Slovenian language and only communication and participants in the process, we will either fill in or support the law, and we cannot possibly accept the argument that this amendment is not a good one and that similar content is already in the statutory law, the consumer protection law, of course, is a bad argument. Nothing costs this National Assembly if we also define this matter in Article 10 and then submit it through the harmonisation amendment in Article 9. Thank you and thank you very much, Mr Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you. Can I close the debate on Article 10? The government, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. See that there is no fear of prescribing anything with public documents, let me point out that Article 7 which speaks of fulfilling the conditions for entry into the register is already talking about the fact that conditions are proven by public documents. Article 31, second paragraph, points out that the competent minister shall prescribe the content of the professional examination, the method and procedure for checking and evaluating the knowledge, content and method of supplementary training, the content and form of the business licence and so on and the manner in which it is entered into the directory. We have to do this in, I don't know, three or six months after the law goes into effect. I will probably do that too, and of course I guarantee you that we will prescribe this in a way that requires public documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you. I would now like to conclude the debate on Article 10 and I would like to inform you of the following. The New Slovenia Group has amended its amendment to Article 10 and does not apply the text here. Because it is very short and clear, I will read it and it will come in writing on the bench. We will all have this text before the vote. The new amendment reads: "A new fifth indent shall be added in the fourth paragraph of Article 10, which reads: 'If the parties do not agree in an understandable language'. So this is the amendment that replaced the original one. This concludes the debate on Article 10 and the amendment thereto. I am also giving an argument to Article 13 and to the Government's amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 13. Article 25 and the amendment of the Government to Article 25 shall be put to the debate. Anybody want to talk about him? Nobody. I conclude the debate on Article 25 and the discussion on the articles in the amendments. We will vote on the amendments and on the bill in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 6 p.m. and 15 minutes. I'm breaking up the agenda. We'll continue the meeting at 12 and 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u70	Let's get back to work. We're moving to five. Point of the agenda - This is firstly a proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos-cement pipes in water infrastructure for debilitating drinking water. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Branko Kelemino. With regard to this law, there is a group of 11 Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the bill. You have 15 minutes. Comrade Branko Kelemin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. Respectable all together. As the first-signed of the proposed law's proponents group, I am first alerting the leadership of the National Assembly, the media and the public, perhaps I can also say that I am expressing my protest at an inaccurate, because I do not know why, the announcer of the work of the National Assembly, which was published in the TV1 Journal on Monday. The journalist correctly and truly reported that at the 25th meeting of the National Assembly there are only 9 items of the agenda, of which only five are laws. And I was also wondering why so, and some interviews about this work. She also announced that there is no parliamentary law between these five laws, which is, of course, the right of Members of the National Assembly, which is not the truth, that I am not even saying a possible lie. The proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos-cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure is now on the agenda. So why was this lie necessary, I don't know. If they should not have already informed the public that there is a law on the agenda of a group of Members with a first-signed Kelemina, i.e. me, then they would have at least rightly said that there is a law of the Member States only at this 25th meeting of the national assembly. But the worst part is that, in my opinion, if it is, I apologize, none of the leaders of the National Assembly reacts to such an untruth, nor do I know why not. Many times such things happen in media reports, and then I do not see the leadership of the National Assembly denying such things. I was obliged to say this because I feel hurt not only as a Member of the Law, but as a representative of the National Assembly, who is interested in addressing also those bills proposed by Members. To come to the proposal of a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos-cement pipes. The reasons why I was quoted as saying this and the group of Members that we signed this bill and also drafted it was that it was undoubtedly found and that it did not need to be interpreted specifically by the Slovenian public and by anyone in the national assembly or the professional public, that asbestos as a material was harmful, toxic, carcinogenic and, in fact, prohibited its use at all levels. With regard to the topic adopted by a whole series of national rules as well as international rules - I will not mention them now, you can see them on different pages. There have also been a lot of studies in this regard, but unfortunately, all of these studies have been somewhat more or less demonstrated than asbestos in the water should not be as harmful as asbestos, such as asbestos fibres, such as exposure to inhalation or other human contact with asbestos. So, studies somehow prove that asbestos is not supposed to be so harmful, even though it's harmful, you know. The worst part is that, or why these studies are not actually there. This is because only those studies that have been done have said that the reaction to asbestos, especially in such a touch as asbestos intake, occurs only after ten, forty years. So, first of all, it's asbestos. In fact, if we consider that this can also be 30 years, 35 years, in fact, in Slovenia, in the world, this is slightly different, we have come just in this critical period and our assessment of the harmfulness of asbestos in water will show up in the continuation of our people's health. Perhaps that too, of course, has made certain things difficult to prove today. Because asbestos is harmful because it's toxic, because it's banned at all levels, my assessment and also my suggestions were that we shouldn't use it for water pipes either. So for the medium that flows through it, or for the materials that flow through it, pure drinking water. For if we already have our drinking water at our sources, let's say we have it - because we know we don't have it; we know that we already have a big problem today, but that's not the point of this law, so I'm not going to talk about it. Maybe someone else will touch these things. But if we already have healthy drinking water, and then after some toxic pipes, we exploit it to the user, I don't think it can happen, and that's why we shouldn't be endangering people's health. The reason why I personally proposed the consideration of this law is also that we have several miles of pipes in the congregation of Sevnica, where I come from. I have to say, people are relatively well-aware and they've been demanding a replacement of these pipes for a few years. Why? In fact, there has been quite a lot in our congregation, and especially in the very town of Sevnica, where these asbestos-cement pipes are used, there has been a significant increase in the number of diseases of people on digestive tracts, namely severe diseases. So above the statistical average of Slovenia. No one actually found out why this happened. Hence, people who are only well - aware of the harmful effects of asbestos have thought about it because bacteriological analyses of water and all other water analyses do not indicate that water would be poisoned or debilitated. People who are conscious doubt that these increased rates of digestive tract disease may have occurred because of the asbestos content in the water. I have decided to do so - and also a group of Members for the proposal of this law - because we know that investments in this field of water pipes replacement are extremely high and that municipalities, as such, especially where they have some 10 km of such pipes, are not in fact capable of providing, with their own resources, and to replace these pipes in a very short time. Indeed, it is happening that we are now in a period of time in Slovenia, when these pipes - also these studies indicate that they were made on the basis of these different interests, that we are in a stage where these pipes were installed for 30, 40, 45 years and their time of sustainability has passed. Studies also say that during this period when the lifespan of these tubes is up, that the possibilities at that time give asbestos content in water significantly higher, because the pipes are long-lasting and there is a greater erosion of the pipes themselves and then the asbestos content in the water. I can also say that the reason is certainly also because I said earlier, this period is from the first exposure to asbestos and to the disease somewhere between 10 and 40 years of age. This phenomenon will in fact be able to manifest itself in the health of our people only in the future. We know that in Slovenia, based on studies as well, we have not invented these things completely, built in some 800,000 pieces of asbestos cement pipes. The length is 6 meters, which means that in Slovenia there are about 4,000 to 5,000 km, maybe more, maybe less. I don't know if the government has any more accurate information to tell today. Of course, in the meantime, since 1999, since the law was proposed for consideration, a few miles of these pipes have certainly been replaced, not all of them. Although these water supply pipes are no longer being installed today, the fact is that when they were currently around 30 years ago, we produced these asbestos pipes in Slovenia and there were sometimes political decisions or political pressures on water system builders to install cheap - a question - or with some extremely good characteristics, at least they were probably so, technically, professionally, that they built asbestos-cement pipes. Today, of course, we are in a period of time when it would be necessary to replace the tube due to the longevity of the tube as soon as possible. I can also tell you that I was once the head of the utilities myself, and so on, for a period of time, and otherwise I am interested in these things, even because of my professional profession. I've had a lot of experience with defects or defects on these water systems. I can tell you that many times, when we bought a particular area, we found that the six-meter tubes, which are also two-centimeter thick, if there was more pressure, were also completely licked in some parts at a length of three meters, so to speak, to zero, and that caused a break or a malfunction. So this asbestos had to go somewhere that was in these tubes. And where it was placed - it was, of course, melted in water or mixed with water and people consumed it. That's a fact. And of course it's happening everywhere, for the first time, where it's older types of pipes, and also where the water speed in the pipelines is high. For there is no regulation of what speed can be in the pipelines with asbestos pipes, and if it is high water speeds in these pipes, then the erosion is so much greater. However, it also depends, of course, on the quality of water, whether this water contains any other ingredients, such as sand, which can lead to greater erosion. It is also very questionable and problematic to remove defects on such pipes. I was there myself, and I know, when those pipes are sawing, it's never nearly as if they can clean up those parts. And where these cracks, where these pieces, the caviars were crushed, then some of these things got flushed into the pipeline, and people were eating and drinking all these things. And this wasn't just happening in our municipality, it was happening all over Slovenia; where these pipes are. We've given you some information. Some of the congregations we have tracked have hundreds of miles [100 km] of such pipes. I hope you have exactly how many there are. In short, given the fact that we want to protect the health of our people, which is a fundamental condition for every country to have a healthy people, then it is essential - and the law is certainly justified by this - that we replace these water pipes as soon as possible and that the country, by its means, helps the municipalities with its share to replace these pipes as soon as possible. I firmly believe that you will support the bill and that in the second reading of the amendments, we will be able to significantly improve the content of the law and that we will then provide our people, our people, with healthy, clean drinking water, which is a fundamental condition for a healthy life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the government, the Minister for the Environment, the Space, the Energy Mag. Janez the Ripper.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Messengers and Members! The Government of this proposal does not support the law. By November 1999, she had written a declaratory position and, of course, persisted in such a negative position. I'll try to tell you why for a while. The law comes out of the wrong assumption. Article 6 of this provision states that asbestos pipes are harmful to health. There is no analysis anywhere or expertise to confirm that. Asbestos, of course, is quite harmful when it enters the lungs. So far, however, it has not been shown that it would be harmful in any way if it entered the digestive tract. Water in the digestive tract is something other than possible water in the lungs. Therefore, of course, it is not appropriate to base the law on this reason. The only thing that is here is the representative of the proponents, and it is justified, is that when the sawing of this tube is crushed, the dust particles, which are then washed away in larger quantities and, of course, they are not cleaned. Therefore, it is important to be more careful when maintaining maintenance. This is also all that could be problematic in terms of health. We understand, however, that asbestos pipes are difficult to maintain or are expensive to maintain, to be broken, and that it is appropriate to replace them with other materials that are more suitable for maintenance. Well, we understand that this is also a great financial burden for the congregations, but it is not the congregation or the state that can solve this overnight. We are already co-financed by the state budget's environmental municipal infrastructure. The funds are about a billion tolars a year, and within them they are also part of resources aimed at improving water resources. On the inside, it is part of the redirection of disputed water resources to irreconcilable, which also sometimes means the replacement or use of other types of pipes, no more asbestos, so that I can say that the partial budget, by the way, is already partly financed because of another fundamental purpose. Also in the eco-development fund, we have a special item of favourable loans for the replacement of asbestos pipes; but I reiterate, not for health reasons, but because it burdens the funds of the municipal services or those of the municipality responsible for the supply of drinking water. In short, we believe that the law, as it is, even with the expected financial consequences, when it is intended to shift to the state budget as much as a 15 billion-dollar burden, is absolutely not acceptable, this money is not in the budget. Above all, I must reiterate, it is misleading to justify the need for this law with some health problems that asbestos pipes are supposed to cause. That is why, of course, the government opposes this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The debate follows, first of all, a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ivan Mamić will be the first to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome some of the other guests! I want to know who I'm going to talk to, because they don't even read more magnetograms, but they do. I'm not an expert in chemistry myself, so to speak, I can't talk much about asbestos either. But the fact is that so many years in Anhove - where these asbestos products were produced - have been silent. I don't know if they cheated or if they knew asbestos was harmful to health. It's clear to me that it's the dust that really hurts the lungs because you're inhaling it, and that it's probably a more dangerous cover from so-called asbestos waves. And this dust came not only in the air, but also probably through plants, water, and so on. So I won't talk about it too much because I don't know things. But it is certain that those people who have anything to do with asbestos, whether it's a roof or a pipe, after all, a sewer pipe, I think they have a legitimate fear of it. When we talk about this law, of course, the biggest problem is money. That is why, according to my opinion, the government is largely not in agreement with this, which is why the Minister has finally mentioned. I would say about these funds: that now history is repeating here, about what we had today at point 1 on telecommunications, when we also proposed rejection of those who have invested, Minister Gantar said that this money cannot be paid by the state, 24 billion and I don't know how much more and how much it will cost the taxpayers, and we have kindly suggested that from what money it is, and even if it is negative, that the shares should be distributed to those who have invested, and we did not want to hear at all. And now we're talking about that until it's owned, people can't get paid. Why am I bringing this up? Because this water system was also operated by a state, a state-owned company. As soon as the system was established, they collected the water rent, as far as it was spent, at the prices they set themselves, and only if they were not so smart - only I do not believe they were not smart - did they not have the depreciation fund. But if they do, and now they're saying there's no money, that's either they're cheating or they're, excuse the expression, thieves. So the water network should be restored from that money. He's got his life span, I don't know what it is, they say it's 25 years, or I don't know how much, and then this thing settles like this. Now, if the taxpayers are going to pay it again - after all, it looks like we're going to have to. Just because it's a problem -- I'd call it an acute one, and even if it's not today, it'll be really acute in three, four, five years. That is why we support this law in the New Slovenia Group. I think it's very, very urgent. If the means of replacing the tube were in one year, it would be the best; but in the next five, six, or I don't know how many years, as we shall discuss, I think that this network should be restored and that people would then live as normal as that segment of life at least. Not to mention what ecology means, how it's poisoned: both air and earth and everything. For God's sake, let's do something for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you. Branko Kelemina will also present the position of the MEP of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you again, Your Honor. Our Social Democratic Party Group will, of course, support the draft law at first reading. The reason is simple. Our customers, if they are others, do not care what kind of people they are or are not healthy, or enjoy what they have by law and by constitution and thus have the right to enjoy - healthy drinking water and the state and local communities are obliged to provide healthy drinking water, undeniable water. We are aware of this problem, we are aware of the problem that asbestos is toxic, it is harmful, we are also aware of the need to eliminate completely all the reasons and all the reasons that could contribute to people being overly ill because of the clean water. There's a basic reason. And our Group of Members certainly supports this. But the fact is, because of the length of the tube, as has already been said, we came to a time when these pipes need to be replaced, and that is about 4,000, 5,000 kilometers of these pipes, according to our estimate. Today, the government representative has not served with any new data, they say they are manipulating some opinion on the 1999 bill, they cannot find the power of course because they ignore things to the point to try at least a little, but they have tried with some new arguments, with some new data to prove that asbestos is not toxic in the water. But please tell me where this asbestos is going in the water, where it's going? Look, I have one study here, or even this is what our research sector did, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm going to read to you because obviously I don't believe it, because they think I'm defending some things that have no legal basis or have no scientific basis, no political basis, and so on. Look at what they wrote on the basis of various findings of studies and so on in our research sector, where, I hope and believe, very neutral and honest people. I'll just read one sentence. Well, it's like, "Most asbestos cement pipes for drinking water are 25 to 35 years old." They found this and said, "It has also been found that there are significant losses somewhere," - water is meant - because these pipes on certain parts of the water network simply disappear. The reason for this is the aggressiveness of the water and the aggressiveness of the fingers in which these pipes are installed. Do you realize what that means? So someone on a relatively professional basis found that these pipes simply disappear. I told you earlier that I, as the head of one sector in a public enterprise, have found, when replacing these pipes - and otherwise, when I met these matters - that the six-metre pipes are also three, four meters long in one part or half of them. Where'd it go? This is per kilograms of asbestos that has dissolved in water in one way or another. And people consume it after 30 years! Please! It is not that once he drank a glass of water, someone from Ljubljana came to such a congregation, say, to us in Sevnica, and drank a glass of water or a cup of coffee or tea from this water. No, people drink it 30 years or more! And the consequences, as we found earlier - and this study also notes this and so on, that the consequences occur only after ten to forty years after the first exposure to asbestos, including in drinking water. And Mr. Secretary says it's not proven to be harmful to health. Neither has it been proved that there are benefits; they have not yet found out and no one is involved. See, it's even written here somewhere that no one in Slovenia deals with this anymore. And all these things that Mr. Secretary is explaining here, they don't really hold. It is a foundation, simply a state as a whole, because, once, I suppose, also through political measures, it has forced certain operators, water system builders, to install asbestos cement pipes, today it is obliged to help replace these pipelines because of changed circumstances or because of the awareness of the people. It is her duty to help to replace them - this is my personal conviction and the conviction of our parliamentary group. The municipalities that have relatively large kilometres of these pipes are unable to do so themselves. And what Mr Minister says is that every year a few funds are allocated for the removal or replacement of this, favourable loans and so on, this is not the case. Just go look at the budgets, our budgets, the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Space, all six years, which I myself have been accompanying as a member of the National Assembly of this matter, and you will see how much money the Ministry spends on such solutions, or just for the construction of water systems in our country. Poorly low resources! After 150, after 180 million, I don't know if we've ever come over 250 million - for all of Slovenia! However, I can tell you that only in my local community did we finally make a water system at some global level, so that at least one local community in the congregation would have water from one system, so we went to work a well and so on, and the whole system, it says, for one local community, for 230 connections, would cost over 200 million! In 200 million! For 220 connectors! Then you can imagine how much this comes to one connection. And people can't pay for all of this. In fact, where these asbestos pipes are large kilometres away, we know that a kilometer of replacement of such pipes - depending on the profile - is somewhere between 8 million and 20 million per kilometer, depending on the terrain and so on. And the congregations cannot do the same, so they must be helped by or by law and also by a stop to healthy drinking water, and the country as a whole is obliged to do so in the shortest possible time. In short, our parliamentary group firmly believes that these problems, which concern local communities and also water system managers, are enormous, and that the country needs to help these local communities. We have indeed foreseen that additional financial resources should be provided by the State for these purposes, but we do not require this matter to be settled within one year. The bill also foresees that in seven years, which will then, if we look at this tube age, exceed over 40 years, the age of these pipelines, some of them, and it would be necessary to replace these pipes and, during this period of seven years, the country would make available from its budget a possible annual allocation of around 3 billion tolls from this source, while the rest should be provided by local communities or water system managers. In fact, today people may not be aware of the problem of the supply of healthy drinking water in Slovenia, they are not aware of it, because there is too little talk about it, but in addition to the air there is the substance that is still important to humans every day in large quantities, both air and water, and if these two substances are not harmless, then it is logical that human health cannot be at some high level. There's nothing to help us, there's really nothing to help us if we're on the asphalt road or on the highway, if you want to take the ashtray to the cemetery, there's nothing to help us. First, it is necessary to provide healthy drinking water, clean air, and then everything else. This is my personal conviction and also the conviction of our Group of Members, so we will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you. The next position of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by counterpart Saša Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u79	Your Honors are here! This time, too, I have to start with a certain kind of criticism. But I am only starting to criticise because I would like to encourage the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take a different approach in this way. See, the opinion on the draft law tabled in the procedure by Mr Kelemina, the first-signed, is from 1999. That is, a four - year - old explanation or their opinion of the law! The fact is that, for the most part, all sectors in our society have advanced so much over the past period and have come to new knowledge that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in my opinion and according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Parties, should approach the preparation of its recent opinion. I think that in this case, therefore, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia insists on its 1999 position on the 1999 health findings, it is an underestimating attitude towards asbestos. The fact is - if I go in a row, I apologize - that the Minister of Environment and Space in his speech, in which he, of course, rejected the bill, also talked about the necessary financial resources and that the state cannot afford the funds that this law would carry behind it at the moment. So the means needed to replace the pipe from asbestos material in the water supply for material that does not contain asbestos and its consequences. The fact is that the drafter of the law has actually tamed the financial consequences in his third article, which reads: "At least 50% of the funds needed to replace the pipeline referred to in the previous Article are provided from the State budget." According to our assessment, according to the National Party, it is the duty of the State to, on the one hand, the funds it receives from citizens - taxpayers - are then appointed - also spent on taxpayers. And in the whole area of public finances, the single most important issue is the priority, what is considered to be more important in this country. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim that the government's policy of prioritisation is wrong; that the priorities in our society, in our country, the Republic of Slovenia should not be a luxury of a government which is judged in one way or another as one of the most luxurious governments in Europe, but a priority should be composed of human health, especially when they are not themselves responsible for their health; and in the case of a pipe, this situation is precisely the same. I would briefly speak on behalf of the Group of Members about asbestos itself, or asbestos itself, and perhaps it will also be for representatives of the Government, for whom I hope they will listen in their room, because they are obviously not here. Asbestos is detected in a special specialist examination, otherwise it cannot be detected. This is very important information. Because the fact that the Minister of Environment and Space stated that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would not support the law is because the law is not suitable for further consideration, because the health damage to the use of the AC distribution tube is not technically proven. So, in fact, life, the existence of the negative consequences of such an infrastructure for the flow of water cannot be demonstrated at all. Speaking of asbestos, I will also appeal this time to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to approach the amendment of the Health and Safety Act at work, where it is precisely in the field of asbestososis, which is defined as a professional disease and this occupational disease is identified by professional doctors, who can only accept patients if they agree with the employer - and they cannot even come to know about their disease. What I personally fear is that if the National Assembly does not accept the proposal of Mr Kelemina's law, we will have a lot of diseases or sick people who will not even know about their situation. Not to be the same as in the asbestos law, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has much, much too late to arrange three conclusions with the help of the National Assembly, because when it was performing or when people in certain sectors were suffering from asbestos disease, the government did not want to hear about it. Later, 20, 15 years later, he accepted three conclusions for an unhealing disease instead of preempting the onset of the disease. Last year we adopted - only last year, twenty years after we could have accepted this - that the conclusions or proposals are: to restructure enterprises managed by the production and distribution of asbestos products; to make incurable patients early and more favourable. Third decision, payment of damages. And if you remember, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has allocated less to compensation than required - 20% of the victims. From what address? From that title of the Law on Health Care at Work, which prevents a person from going to a specialist examination on his own, but of course it is necessary to have an order or instruction from the employer - and this does not happen. I personally assess that we are here in a closed circle, which unfortunately comes solely from public finances, highlighting public finances' priorities. And as long as politics, the government of the Republic of Slovenia - including the executive branch of power and the body that forms the laws - the thought that the priority represents something that can be said from the outside, something foresight, and not until those elements that raise quality, health, standard of life are put on priority, will continue in our society as it is. I personally regret that this is the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the position and opinion of any action are reflected in the first document of 1999. Since that year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been prepared to produce new studies. The fact is, we all know that asbestos fibers are more than harmful and that asbestos is incurable. After the asbestos law itself, that is, the production and sale of asbestos-containing products, we were 20 years behind schedule. Today we have the opportunity to resolve the matter in some way, today for water infrastructure. I sincerely hope that this National Assembly will do so today, not when all the consequences are on track. At that time, I will no longer have anything or craftsmen to take any more than a decision to apologize to the users of such pipes. I personally assess that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with a slightly better preparation would be able to bear the cost referred to in Article 3 of the Act. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party, but we appeal for the support of all Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you. The word is given by colleague Bogomir Vunčec, a client of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the Young Slovenia party, we take a very bitter view of the government on the proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure in which it rejects the law because, in their opinion, the health damage to the use of asbestos cement pipes for the distribution of drinking water has not been proven professionally. In its opinion, the government states: "The studies to date, which have examined the relationship between general pollution of the environment and asbestos and products containing asbestos, have not clearly demonstrated that there is a direct sampling link to the emergence of cancers among the population, irrespective of the medium through which asbestos could enter the human body." That's what the government says. As we can see, the government is citing the lack of clear, direct sample connections, but it does not deny that there are indirect links and the associated harmful effects of asbestos on the vast majority of citizens who run water through pipes. As an example of this, we can also mention the research task that Mr Kelemina mentioned earlier on behalf of the applicant. In the Young Slovenia Party, we do not accept such diversions and strongly support the proposal for a law aimed at replacing in Slovenia, which has a high percentage of asbestos cement pipes in its water supply network, which are already long and harmful, with pipes that are not dangerous to health and the environment. As we know, the country has already adopted laws and regulations that have protected workers exposed to asbestos, while the vast majority have not yet received compensation. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the government's opinion on the proposal is the same as it is, mainly due to the level of funds that it should use to implement the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes, since the local communities themselves will not be able to finance the entire investment. The government avoids in particular the excuse that in this area there is no professional literature to study this area, but at the same time in particular and unequivocally does not ask quality Slovenian experts who could have studied these influences long ago and have proved them, in our opinion, because we also know cases where we are more papal than the pope in some laws and are already beyond some European standards and we have stricter criteria than they know in Europe. The government's interest is to avoid financial means and to articulate evidentiary phenomena on health and see no need to approach the bill alone, let alone to participate in the adoption itself with the amendments. Finally, if we mention the projected funds that would have been spent, we see that the investment, as we have already heard, would have amounted to about 15 billion for the whole project or about 3 billion per year, let's say in five years. These are the funds the government obviously does not want to make for this project. The price is obviously still too high for the government, despite the fact that the long-term law would certainly have a positive impact on the health of the vast majority of our citizens. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will support the law because we believe that health is the first value that the Constitution also provides and the amount of these funds, if we can mention, in a parable, 1.5 falcons, I do not think there should be a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you. My colleague Richard Beumann will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we first examine the law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure, which was introduced into the legislative procedure by a group of Members with first-signed Branko Kelemino. With a relatively short legal text, the applicants want to achieve a rapid replacement of asbestos cement pipes with those that do not potentially represent the health of harmful substances and to prescribe co-financing from the State budget. Thus, at least 50% of the necessary resources are to be provided by the State and the remaining resources are to provide the municipalities in which the replacements of these pipes will take place. In view of the fact that the applicants have written down that the basic objective of this law is to protect human health and the human environment, it seems appropriate to make a comparison with the international experience and practice that is present in this area. In this regard, it is worth noting that two research tasks have already been identified in the research sector of the National Assembly, namely, in May 1999 the research task on the use of asbestos cement pipes and in September 2002 the task of financing the replacement of asbestos has been complemented by the task of financing the replacement of asbestos as a basis that is proven to be harmful to health. Studies on the impact on human health, the legislation on asbestos in us and in the European Union have been reviewed. The Austrian asbestos Regulation does not specifically refer to asbestos cement pipes for drinking water. In Austria, water pipes of this kind have already been replaced, so there is no need for such a law in practice. It should also be pointed out that no specific normative acts have been adopted at federal level since the current replacement of asbestos cement pipes, but only at local level. There was also no financial support or funds that would at least partially cover the costs of replacing the long-term asbestos cement pipes. German law also knows similar solutions. Swedish legislation has also been processed in the task. In the 1960s and 1970s, the country appointed a special asbestos commission to produce a programme and propose measures. The programme also provided guidance to inform the population of the risk of asbestos and of the products containing it. Local communities are responsible for the rehabilitation of water pipes in order not to mix asbestos in drinking water. Nevertheless, the programme did not propose that local communities replace asbestos cement pipes with other ones that are less harmful to health. The financing of the replacement shall be under the exclusive competence of the local communities and the funds of the special funds shall be used for such investments. That is the case, for example, in the three countries mentioned in this research task. This task used the working version of the national asbestos guidelines produced in April 1999 and based on the materials of the Interdepartmental Commission for Hazardous Waste. It has a subcommission for asbestos which has considered the proposal for these guidelines in May 1999 and the guidelines are produced by the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. Human health has been shown to be particularly at risk of inhaling loose asbestos fibres. Also in world literature, serious studies on the impact of asbestos fibres from drinking water on the occurrence of any malignancy among users of drinking water from asbestos cement tubes are not to be observed. Asbestos fibres appear in different forms in nature. Some have proven to cause cancer, such as amphivolal forms of asbestos fibres, and some, such as crizotyl fibers, have not been shown to have a sampling relationship with cancer. The results of research carried out so far on asbestos content in waterwater in Slovenia show the presence of only crizotyl, but not of potentially much more carcinogenic amphibious asbestos fibres. Slovenian as well as international regulations on maximum permissible levels of asbestos fibres in water water are not yet in place, so US regulations apply, namely the regulations of the US environmental agency allowing up to 7 million fibres per litre. Slovenian experts in this area propose the application of a slightly lower value, with 4 million fibres per litre. Asbestos concentrations in water are very different, mostly less than a million fibers per litre, and the values per 100 million are only obtained where the pipes have already begun to decay due to longevity or physical injury. The deterioration of asbestos cement pipes depends mainly on acidity and water hardness. In doing so, it is important that the vast majority of water water in Slovenia is slightly basic. In the basic environment, however, some protective layer is formed on the inner walls of the tube, which prevents the elimination of asbestos fibers. Knowledge of the danger of asbestos has led to various solutions. Neither in international legal acts nor in the legislation of the European Union nor in its members are there rules prohibiting the use of asbestos cement pipes for distribution of drinking water. The demolition of houses, for example, which had built-in asbestos, was assessed as being more risky than the existing situation. Both the aforementioned research task and the Government's view on the proposal for a law mention the general doctrine that exists in the world, which states that cement waste products are, of course, also thought to be water pipes, do not remove if this is not necessarily necessary, but there is a need for greater attention in the maintenance of such products. Of course, it is essential that plumbers ensure regular monitoring of water quality and ensure that quarterly analyses of asbestos in water are carried out. In particular, it should be pointed out that the solution provided for in Article 9 of the bill, which deals with the safe storage of replaced asbestos cement pipes, is by no means appropriate, since it is most safe to leave them buried and put on a new water supply when replacing them. It would be completely unreasonable to dig them up, endangering the health of workers and then burying them again in the landfill for hazardous waste. Otherwise, almost all utilities operating water systems are already replacing asbestos cement pipes with others, but most often they do not know which pipes to replace them with. They are selected among lithium-ferrous, polyvinyl chloride and polyethylene tubes. According to the data collected in the national asbestos guidelines, 23 of the 40 companies left old pipes in the ground when they were replaced, while the others left them at municipal landfills. A lot of useful material on drinking water issues is also available on the world web. As an example, I refer to the document of the World Health Organisation: The rules for quality drinking water, where it concludes, stress that "although asbestos is known as a source of cancer when inhaled, the available epidemiological studies do not support the hypothesis that asbestos intake in water increases the risk of cancer. More. Extensive feeding of test animals with asbestos did not increase the incidence of tumours in the gastrointestinal tract. Therefore, the belief that asbestos use is harmful to health is not consistent and there is no need for specific rules for asbestos in drinking water," the end of the sentence. So please, the World Health Organization. And there's a lot of these documents on the Internet, all you have to do is find them. After a thorough examination of the available materials, both Slovenian and international, we decided not to support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you. And the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished bill-maker, Mr Kelemina. In our view, there is a law before us that should have a key word, whether through procedure or not, the profession. Then politics and its judgment enters the second place. We certainly have no doubt about the proposaler's intention to do something that will be good for the protection of human health. It is true, however, that this law, which speaks of gradual removal, gradually replacing asbestos cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure for drinking water supply, that you do not want this law, and rightly so, also in Parliament, it opens the question of asbestos being proven to be dangerous and harmful material to health. In our view, in today's debate, we should also distinguish, of course, from professional knowledge, what is its harmfulness to health if it enters the body by breathing or if it enters the body through water, via the gastrointestinal tract. When we decided in the parliamentary group how to deal with a number of experts, some who also received the highest academic titles abroad in the field of health protection. We have looked at almost all the legislation in force in Slovenia. We have looked in particular, perhaps after a long time we have read some provisions of the national environmental programme. We have seen how this issue has been resolved in other countries. Our key objection, the proponents of the law, and here our position is the same as that of the government, is this: The general doctrine in the developed world is that cement asbestos products, if possible, are not removed, if this is not necessarily necessary, but it is essential to maintain that contamination does not occur, but if the pipes need to be replaced, that the old remain intact in the country. This seemed to us to be a key position, and the proposaler gave this direction too little weight in the law. Regarding the epidemiological studies themselves, it should be said that only these clearly demonstrated the relationship between the occupational exposure of asbestos and the development of mesothelium and lung cancer, and the causal link to oral and throat cancer was weaker. However, the occurrence of cancer on the gastrointestinal tract in relation to asbestos exposure has not yet been established with certainty, although the studies since 1970 have increased significantly. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the first sentence of the Government's opinion, which, by the way, has already been adopted in 1999. In short, the Minister also repeated it today and talks about the following: So far, studies have not shown that there is a direct sampling link to the occurrence of malignancies, cancers among the population, regardless of the medium through which asbestos would come into human flow. However, it has been shown that human health can be particularly affected by the inhalation of loose asbestos fibres, only at the time of occupational exposure to asbestos. We stress that word "at the moment." This opinion was written in 1999. Since this is the government's opinion, it is necessary to say that Members of the Parliament have turned to us the relatives of affected people living outside factory walls, such as Salonita Anhovo, who have not been professionally employed in this factory, who have become sick of asbestos, who have received mesothelium - lung cancer and died. These are more than ten, and their numbers are increasing. These people were not professionally exposed, but unfortunately they lived in the immediate vicinity, where there was a high concentration of asbestos fibres in the air over the past decades. Respect for these people needs to be mentioned here. If the legislator finds out, we have an adopted law covering the social and some other circumstances of the difficult situation in which those who have been professionally exposed to this material have been found. However, if it is found that people living in the immediate vicinity have been exposed, this law will need to be supplemented. Something about asbestos in drinking water and drinks. This is a topic that touches directly on the law proposed by colleague Kelemin. From 1946 until the ban on asbestoscement production, more than 1.5 million tonnes of asbestos pipes were produced in Slovenia. We sold half a million tons of pipes in Slovenia, and we exported the rest.The lifespan of our cement waste pipes, in which up to 20% of the asbestos of both types, as already mentioned by a colleague, crizotes and antibiotics, which are much more dangerous, is 45 years. That's what they say. Life is 45 years. This means that the first pipes laid down are already permanent and will need to be replaced by the middle of this century. This is where the bill's proponents are right. They will need to be replaced gradually. Special attention is needed, however, in pipes that have been installed for more than 40 years and in those that are installed in areas where more aggressive water is expected. I mentioned earlier that there is a general doctrine in the developed world that cement asbestos products, if possible, are not removed, if this is not necessarily necessary, but that it is essential to maintain that contamination is not achieved. However, if the pipes need to be replaced, the old ones should remain intact in the earth. However, prior to the replacement of asbestos cement pipes, appropriate services should be consulted on the appropriateness of the pipe from the other material being incorporated. One of the professionally supported directions is called polyethylene tubes, but there are others. Here we could also remember the good old days, and some very successful civilizations in history, when they had a large majority of wood pipes, lived healthy. In Slovenia, we still have a lot of built-in cement asbestos pipes, as we say, most of them are in the Tolmin municipality, more than 40 kilometers away. The concentration of asbestos fibres in water flowing through the cement asbestos tube varies greatly. It's basically less than one million fibers per litre, it's an MFL unit. Compared to the concentration of asbestos in water, it flows through eroded natural asbestos layers of soil. These are only about 100 MFLs. How much loose asbestos fiber will be in the water depends on the aggressiveness of the leader. Le-ta is defined as a Ph and hard water. Aggressive water can corrode the tube and asbestos fibers are released into the water. In such suitable concentrations are values ranging from 1 to 10 MFL. Chrysotile fibres are mostly released into the water. In Slovenia, the average water is quite hard, which means that on the inside of the tube is usually made a calcium coating, which naturally prevents the release of asbestos fibres. Asbestos is also measured in wine, beer, and sodad drinks in the United States. Most commonly, the sources of these fibers were asbestos filters that were used to clear wines and other beverages. In Slovenia, we also had a factory of wine-cleaning filters. The measured concentrations of asbestos in these drinks were between 1.1 and 6.6 MFL. I'm afraid we don't have any data for Slovenia for white wine. Despite the fact that asbestos in the world is increasingly being shown as a general carcinogen, this is said to be cancerous, and it is clear from recent studies that asbestos concentrations associated with gastrointestinal tract cancer are much higher on the digestive tract than asbestos concentrations caused by pulmonary diseases. So far, there has also not been an increased risk of developing cancer on the gastrointestinal tract for those who would be exposed only to asbestos from drinking water, I stress, only asbestos from drinking water. Therefore, the standards on the concentration of asbestos fibres in drinking water accepted by different countries are very different and depend on the risk that is still acceptable for a given country, including the so-called 'cost benefit' cost that the State would have at the time of replacing the pipe and also on the model used to calculate this risk. This American standard is significantly different from the German standard. So what should be done with the proposed problem? Before deciding to remove asbestos-cement tubes, it should be determined whether the water actually contains asbestos fibres and if it contains how many they contain. A larger number of samples, preferably from taps, should be taken and the water should be put back into the analysis of the relevant institution and also used up-to-date methods such as electronic analyses of asbestos fibres. Only a few such analyses have been made in Slovenia so far. One of the last, which gave Slovenian samples for examination in Germany as well, showed, for example, that the mountain water was almost entirely in line with American standards and not with German standards. American standards have higher values. We do not yet have a direct standard for drinking water in Slovenia on this issue. Within the professional institutions, it will be necessary to make a decision first, which values we will make as a standard, or this is always a professional decision, here the profession proposes, and then, as a rule, the government authorities will take what we are willing to take. We in the parliamentary group have been thinking about what the National Assembly can do today. He's got two options. One possibility is to support the proposed law and the proposed law in the process of upgrading. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not believe that such a majority will be achieved in the National Assembly. That's why we're proposing another way. When we went to see in us available literature and studies, which laws, regulations and other acts we have in Slovenia that determine the treatment of asbestos, we found that there are many. These are regulations, not least which are directly linked to asbestos, for example in wastewater. At the same time, we went to look at the national environmental protection programme, which states that one of the government's commitments up to the year, I think, 2008 conditions for the replacement of environmentally unacceptable raw materials are in place. And when we went to look at what these ecologically unacceptable raw materials are based on this program, we saw in the record on paragraphs 53 and 54 that it also says asbestos. Therefore, for asbestos too, the government has the task of applying the conditions for the replacement of environmentally unacceptable raw materials. Then we went to look into the rules of procedure, what would be the business opportunity to commit the government to report to us and to give us information on these issues, based on today's debate, we relied on Article 237. The National Assembly may adopt a decision requiring the Government or the Minister to report to the National Assembly on the enforcement of laws, other regulations adopted by the National Assembly - a national programme can also be such a regulation - and other measures to exercise powers and their effects. We will therefore put the following decision into the procedure in the parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure: "The competent ministers are required to report within three months to the National Assembly on the implementation and effects of the National Environmental Protection Programme, published in the Official Journal 83/99, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 16 September 1999, and in particular on the application of the conditions by replacing environmentally unacceptable raw materials." And a brief explanation. The Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia launched a project on the basis of a call from the competent ministries in 1998 to collect and process relevant data on asbestos entitled: National Guidelines for asbestos. The National Environmental Protection Programme mentions asbestos as an environmentally unacceptable raw material. In view of the pressing issue of the use of asbestos and its health implications, we believe that the request for a report on the implementation of the national environmental protection programme is justified. However, the basis for such a decision is in Article 237 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you for your discussion. These were the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members. I'll give you the word "magic" first. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members. Since the first group of carcinogens, asbestos has been classified by the international cancer research agency in Europe, the general awareness of the harmfulness of asbestos for human health, as well as its harmful environmental effects, has been greatly strengthened. It is true that there is in particular a causal link between the inhalation of asbestos-free fibres in professional activities, but there is something about such situations where individuals are established asbestos, even in our daily lives. Let me remind you of the situation that has not been mentioned so far, such as the asbestos coatings of a coated ironboard or ironed base. And that's something that's in our homes. Of course, our awareness of asbestos damage dictates a comprehensive solution to this problem. When I talk about comprehensive resolution, I think about the country's responsibility in prioritizing the elimination of harmful consequences or the harmful consequences of asbestos. In doing so, I think, above all, that we must face several aspects of rescue. The first group would certainly include all of those problems or those related to the resolution of those who suffered from the harmful effects of asbestos. Of course, I am also referring to the measures necessary to prevent harmful consequences. This certainly also affects the dynamics of problem solving. Therefore, it seems perfectly logical for me to first remove asbestos in the environment in those places where its corruption or harmfulness is already proven, I am thinking mainly of coverings, linings and insulation, but less or less it is difficult to defend the rate of removal at the same pace in those cases where the risk is lower. Allow me, however, to include asbestos cement pipe to this lower risk, which has been proven several times in the debate today, or mentioned that serious or solid guarantees of research that volatile fibre in drinking water would be detected due to asbestos pipes are as harmful as they are free asbestos particles. Let me give you some examples from my home environment. In Maribor we like to boast of good climate and good drinking water. As a result, I have also asked the Director of the Maribor water supply about the procedures for replacing asbestos cement substances, and I am, after all, monitoring this issue as a City Councilwoman, I know that there are a few more than 52 km of asbestos cement materials in Maribor, and I also know that the Maribor water supply, together with the Environmental Protection Service, addressed a request for medical advice on the content of asbestos fibres in the Maribor drinking water. At the Institute of Joseph Stephen, such analysis was done. If I conclude, I could find that there are no excessive amounts of asbestos fibres in drinking water in Maribor, all within the limits of what has already been said in the debate that there are no standards for this area in Slovenia, but that there are no comparative studies of these analyses that have been carried out in Slovenia. However, it is worth noting that lawmakers have also cited a study, namely the Dodič Fikfak Method, in which it is a study of the effect of asbestos fibres on human health and the health consequences of drinking water contaminated with asbestos. The conclusion of this study states that I should quote: "After the results obtained and comparisons obtained with measurements and the consequences of such concentrations elsewhere in the world, it is only reasonable to decide whether to remove pipes or not. The general doctrine in the developed world is that cement waste products, i.e. flints, are not removed if this is not strictly necessary due to longevity, but more attention is needed in the maintenance of these products. Here, in my opinion, the problem is that the pipes are already long, but the same matter does not apply only to asbestos cement pipes, but also to pipes from other materials. That the water networks in Slovenia are already long, they are between 30 and 40 or 45 years old, is a fact that is detectable fact. It must be said that this is also associated with major water losses, which are significantly higher in Slovenia than elsewhere in the world. For example, the European Union is subject to 15% water loss in Japan, for example, only 5%. Regarding Maribor, the loss of substances is 30%, and Ljubljana is said to be even higher. So what would suggest regarding asbestos cement pipes is certainly not to be overlooked by the fact that asbestos fibres are present in drinking water. However, it appears that there is no solid evidence of their same harmfulness as the free asbestos fibers. However, it is important to call on the country to remove the harmful effects of asbestos with smart policy, particularly where these are much more evident and also evident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u88	Thank you. The word is France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. This law raises three questions. Next, the state of the pipelines. You know that asbestos tubes are thicker than roof coverings made of similar materials, that they contain more concentration and more density of these fibres, and that they are placed in a land that is not always or is very rarely alkaline. Most of the time, it's acidic. Compared to the roof cover, you know that the life span is about 20 years, which means that this substance, with an average number of rainy days in a year of about 80 rainy days, water is so washed in 20 years, including by atmospheric acids, that it becomes porous and so fragile that it is no longer usable. Similar conditions exist in a land where the flow of water is much higher. The rainy days of the earth are 365 days a year, the speeds of these waters that flow through these pipes have increased in these years, because the consumption of water has increased, and the acidic land has done its work. I've seen the pipes that were dug, and their appearance was terrible. Through such pipes not only to wash the inside of the cement layer, but to show directly from within the fibre nets. And as they repent and go through these pipes, which are now inappropriately more transportable than they were 40 years ago, there's a cracking and danger of a fecal intrusion from the heart in these tubes. So surely the state of these pipes and the age of these water systems is such that we will have to think about the replacement. I do not speak and I do not agree that new systems need to be replaced, because in the new systems, the cement layer is still quite good and, of course, it is necessary to approach the replacement of old water systems. Second question: the issue of harmfulness. The claim that the use of these pipes is harmless seems unrealistic to me. You yourself know how long it took for an individual system and a particular environmental burden to somehow be socially recognized as harmful. In Idria, with regard to mercury, you know well that entire generations of children had to be crippled, affected, and the toxicity had to be extremely high to determine that mercury was toxic. As for Anh, you know how long it took us to acknowledge the harmfulness of using this and that, in fact, this damage has clearly been shown in a very unpleasant form, where in the case of discovered mesotelium, the patient's life expectancy is only another year. Even in the case of Anhova it is expected, based on the research that it will be the summit, this is the largest number of diseases due to Anhova, where we discontinued production in 1997, it will only be in 2025, gentlemen. What we abolished in 1997 will have the greatest impact not until 2025. That's the projection that this research is giving. By 2040, we're going to have some serious patients at the expense of this. So I don't think it's too long to wait for you to take this water system a little more seriously. The question is also that our thinking somehow does not want to adapt to a more global approach. Look, for just the harmfulness of tobacco we needed, I don't know how many years to figure out, not just smoke is harmful, what comes into the lungs, smoke as smoke, but nicotine as a chemical substance that goes around the body. That's too bad. Asbestos, when inhaling powdery fibres, it is not just silicosis, it is not the effect of particles and particles on the lungs as mechanical influence, but it is a chemical effect, because cancer is the result of chemical changes in these cells. And so it is here. But here comes asbestos, not by inhaling, but coming into the body in another way. Now the question is, if we take this problem seriously, who can solve it, who can replace the old asbestos-containing water systems with the new less harmful ones? Here, however, is the global problem or insensitiveness of this country to local communities. You know for yourself that there is no longer a time of village plumbing. Surface sources dry or are infected, dirty. They're gone. We are looking for deep resources and large resources from which, of course, there are more villages, more municipalities and a larger population of water. It means that the search for water resources is no longer a municipal problem, but it is a national problem. The same is true of landfills. The problem of deposits is no longer the problem of individual villages, but it is the rescue and search of regional deposits. It's also a problem of electricity. So, electricity, water, waste is becoming a national problem. I think it will be necessary to approach the concept of what is the duty of the State to provide drinking water to the population. Certainly not by putting your head in the sand and saying: because there is no problem, as with atrazin, there is no problem as we have heard the Minister of Health, although it has been silenced that in cases such as, say, a cocktail of atrazine and nitrates occurring at the time of fertilization of these surfaces, and such a cocktail, such a compound in the stomach, when it comes to a reaction with stomach acid, we get nitrozatrazin nitrogen, which is, of course, ten thousand times more toxic than the atrazine itself. However, we can put our heads in the sand and not approach these problems and leave the problem to the local communities. However, these local communities will never be able to resolve this problem, as there remains a global Slovenian problem. The solution here, on the one hand, is to impose on the local community a solution to this problem alone. Like, say, Austria. However, gentlemen, then the share of gross national product in the same proportion must be provided to our local communities as in Austria. And our share is two to three times smaller than it is there. And that's where the country's gonna need listening. I think that in such cases as asbestos and Anhovega, and the problem involved and opened by this law, the state's attitude towards local communities is reflected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you. Now he has the word of his colleague Anton Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you for your word. After these analyses and in-depth discussions, I will be very brief. I just want to point out one more segment. It is important to know that there are still several areas in Slovenia where there is no supply of healthy drinking water and where they are usually provided with a drip. And this one joyfully runs into the tanks on the asbestos roofs. In this respect, I would like to point out that the law is flawed. If we support it in the first reading, I would suggest that we change the title already: the law on the construction of drinking water infrastructure and the gradual replacement or removal of asbestos cement pipes in water infrastructure. In this respect, the other articles should also be added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you. I give the word to France the Rock.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Personally, I believe that the problem with the treatment of today's law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in water infrastructure is the supply of drinking water at two levels. First, the level of awareness of asbestos damage in the environment, in the entire infrastructure with which we live citizens and citizens. Secondly, the issue of the longevity of water infrastructure, and what was finally said in the previous debate, the construction of infrastructure where it is not at all. These two are very different, very important problems among themselves. The fact is, even from the environment from which I come, where in the city of Lithuania the secondary platoon is explicitly built from asbestos cement pipes built 30 years ago, and the area that is exposed mainly to the configuration of the terrain and also to asbestos cement pipes is very negative ground structure is exposed to many injuries. However, there was no denial by the medical profession of the damage to these pipes that there was no potential danger to human health if the pipes were made of asbestos fibres. The fact is that from the study itself, which was carried out in the removal of asbestos cement pipes in Ormož, the concentration of asbestos in water is found to be very different. In most cases, the value is less than 1 million fibres per litre. Where the pipes began to decay, however, they also found value of up to 100 million fibers. So the problem is on those systems that are decomposing. From the environment from which I come, water must either be cooked or also chlorinated because of the constant risk of injury. I therefore believe that the national assembly should have this proposal, which can only be written a little too much for the purpose of health and harm. I've already said in the introduction that we should split the problem into two parts. In one area where it is actually possible to identify or predict that there is a high probability that health is also harmful to long-term water networks and where water networks are, in fact, long-term or even non-existent. These are two questions that I think the state and the national assembly should deal with. However, I think it is very bad that today's debate does not involve either a government representative or a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space. The opening statement was given by the Minister, and then he left the Chamber. I believe that the problem is much more pressing and broader than just a presentation of the position on the issue of the proposal, which was actually presented in the same explanation as it was presented four years ago. And the mere supply, the 15 billionth supply of the State for co-financing, does not seem to me to be as large in five years as compared to spending tax money on some other segments that were not so fair, if this would provide greater health security for people in areas where, in fact, there is now a permanent risk to the health of the population in the use of healthy drinking water from asbestos cement pipes in water infrastructure, as well as the regulation of water infrastructure in those areas where it is not at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u94	Can you close your buddy Rokavec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u95	I will conclude, Mr President, only a final thought. Therefore, I think it would actually make sense for me to think carefully at the end of the debate, even the National Assembly itself, whether it would not be worth actually upgrading this law. The decision, if it comes into the procedure proposed by the Group of Members, may also have an option. But I doubt what the outcome will then be in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you. Now he's got the word of a colleague, only Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the middle of the second half of the previous century, a good 30 or 20 years ago, scientific evidence has emerged that all types of asbestos fibers cause asbestososis, lung cancer, and lung cancer. More and more evidence is there that asbestos causes cancer on other organs as well. In the European Union, we then follow the adoption of various directives from 1983 to 1999, when the last regulation was adopted in this area, which announced the end of the use of asbestos in the European Union countries, including asbestos cement products such as pipes, roof coverings and facade boards and so on. However, as Dr Janja Šešok warned in one of her articles, the directive does not require the immediate removal of asbestos and products, but advises the gradual removal of long-term products. As long as they're intact, it's best to leave them where they are and check them regularly. Following this last regulation, all members of the European Union must harmonise their legislation in this area by 1 January 2005 at the latest. We thus have enough time to bring our legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union. The basic law, the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in asbestos, were adopted in 1996 in the National Assembly. With regard to the proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure proposed by a group of Members, I must say that I have been convinced by the arguments of the government which oppose the law, but I would nevertheless like the government to write its position on the law in a new way. After all, the government's opinion is almost four years old and I think we could complement it in a variety of ways, of course, in line with the progress of the profession in this area. In any event, the law or appropriate sub-legislative act on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes in water infrastructure will have to be adopted sooner or later. My proposal would be for such a proposal to be drafted by the government and then sent to the National Assembly. The proposal for a bill by a group of Members has a very large financial impact both on the budgets of local communities and on the state budget, about 30 billion tolars. That is why I believe that it is a priority for the State to first fulfil its obligations under the basic anti-arist law. This year, both the Economic Committee and the Petitions Commission discussed this issue in depth in the National Assembly. A number of decisions have been taken calling on competent authorities to comply with their legal obligations. Therefore, it would be my message at the time of the consideration of this law that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should first fulfil its obligations under the laws already adopted. By the end of 2004, the State budget for the purchase of the insurance period and for compensation to the affected should have paid 6.2 billion tolls. However, the 2003 and 2004 budgets adopted lack 1.2 billion tolars. Therefore, it should first be necessary to provide for the missing funds and only later to impose additional obligations which our public finances will not be able to impose in the short term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you. I give the floor to my colleague, Franz Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with the proposal for a law that has been tabled. I also agree with those debaters who said that this law should take into account the fact that there is no drinking water in some areas. Of course, I deeply disagree with the government and with those debaters who think that if water flows through saloon pipes in demographicly threatened areas, they should be quiet and happy to have water. The fact is that these pipes need to be replaced in these areas. As stated in the law, Article 3 on financing, it is not a problem to do so, even by the municipalities, if the state will, of course, meet its conditions. He's one of those conditions. When we passed the law on coherent regional development, we wrote that we would devote 1 per cent of gross domestic product to demographically endangered areas. Of course, this country, this ruling coalition, does not work. While working and using these funds, so much money, 1 percent of gross domestic product consumes, but not for demographically endangered areas, but for hangars, for planes, for Triglav insurance, for Elan and so on and so on, SIB Bank and so on. In these areas, he spends not one percent, but, of course, more, so it is imperative that this law is adopted for this law to go to another reading. It will turn out here whether yesterday, when the Minister answered my question, she really meant it and talked about regional development, if, of course, she started to do what was accepted. I agree with the predecessor, Ambassador Bevk, that the government is obliged to comply with those laws that have already been passed and implemented. So, of course, in this area. That is why, of course, I will also support this proposal for a second reading. But I'll be very specific. In the area from which I come, about 20 or exactly 19 congregations are still known as asbestos or not - called asbestos pipes, which flow about 120 kilometers [120 km] of water. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to realise that this type of material also accounts for a loss of about 30 per cent of water. This is a national interest to change the loss of this, in addition to air and water, which are the basic two elements for survival and life. This must be a national interest. But if, of course, this government doesn't know it, then it's no different than saying it's not a priority for it, and that's what's going to show up in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you. My colleague, Janez Komljanec, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you for saying so, Vice President. Especially in the 1950s and 1960s, and even later, the Anhove saloon was selected as a modern technological novelty for the construction of water systems. The knowledge of asbestos damage to human health was poorly researched and modest. In Slovenia, a large majority of water systems were built. How many saloons are still installed in water systems in Slovenia today, and no one has collected them until today, and there are definitely more than 1,000 kilometers. Knowledge of the harmfulness of asbestos in Anhove to the health of people who were employed in production and how otherwise, in contact with asbestos in daily work, and of the world's knowledge of asbestos damage to human health have also raised legitimate concern, but what about drinking water from water systems built from water pipes. Because of your concern, we have a marriage before us. However, we can see that most Slovenian water pipes are built from saloon pipes at the end of their lifetime, both because of time and aging material and because of not such a rare non-professional installation, especially the shallow laying of pipes, there is an increasing frequency of defects. The systems are also becoming less and more narrow, resulting in large water losses. It is noted from the professional literature that in alkaline waters, most of which are in Slovenia, there is virtually no erosion of the tube. The inner walls of the pipes have even calcium linings. So the transition of asbestos fibres and asbestos pipes to drinking water is minimal. In acidic waters, the danger is much greater because water is aggressive and actually also eats pipes, so more fibers come into drinking water. Acids of water are also associated with silicon rocks. In these, the presence of asbestos is almost certain. Such water may contain asbestos fibers at its source, that is, in front of the tube. Thus, it may already be inappropriate and less appropriate in relation to the number of asbestos fibres it contains. It can be seen from the literature that by installing suitable filters we effectively reduce the organic inorganic fibre content in water. The maximum permitted concentration of the American regulation and earlier in 1993 second, at least professional literature is not mentioned, allows up to seven million asbestos fibres per litre of drinking water. The analysis carried out by the chemical institute in Ljubljana for one Slovenian water system, for which I have data, at that time had a further 18 km of saloon pipes, found, by electronic microscope method, in a sample of drinking water, a modest 14 000 asbestos fibers, far below the permitted limit. It must be said that in this city they drink alkaline water, something like most Slovenians. However, this is not the case everywhere in Slovenia. It is also clear from existing literature that the presence of asbestos fibres in drinking water is not yet proven to be harmful in the world, which does not mean that we do not have to take all the necessary preventive measures to drink water without asbestos fibres in the future. Let me draw some conclusions from the above. All water system operators from the water pipes should immediately put water into the analysis and thus determine the presence of asbestos fibres in drinking water. Where they drink water from the environment with silicon rocks, they should also analyze the water at source. In this way, in Slovenia we would get precise information on what water we drink in view of the presence of asbestos fibres in drinking water, and this would also be information for action. In view of the life span of asbestos pipes, more and more defects, fractures, and repairing such pipes, we are sure to directly introduce some asbestos fibers into drinking water. So here comes the time to replace the saloon pipes. As I am aware, this has been happening on a wide range of water systems in Slovenia for several years, of course gradually, according to the available funding of municipalities for the depreciation of municipal public utility infrastructure. In my view, water pipes need to be replaced mainly for longevity, and preventive health care should be present, which means that new tubes need to be tested when selecting new materials and ensure that we do not introduce new materials in a water pipe of any other, not yet sufficiently researched, harmful substances to replace one danger with another. When water pipes were replaced in the world, the knowledge that saloon pipes remained in the earth and that such a way was less harmful than their excavation and disposal. I do not think that we need the proposed law to solve the problem, but that, on the basis of other regulations, it is necessary to give priority to existing state budget items and other funds for the purpose of co-financing municipal public infrastructure for the replacement of saloons of such projects, especially where asbestos fibres are seen to be present in drinking water and the longevity of the system is greater and thus more dangerous to human health.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek is the next discusser. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! For the first time today, as part of Slovenia is accompanied by cable operators, I also welcome our viewers. On this law on the gradual replacement of asbestos cement pipes for drinking water supply, it is necessary to say that such substances, as we see from the explanation of the law, are installed mainly in more demographically endangered areas of Slovenia. This also implies the position of the government and the position of Minister Kopač that such a replacement is not necessary, of course, to almost, according to him, not to endanger anyone. I firmly believe that if most of these miles of pipes were to have large centres, the willingness of the government would be significantly different. However, we must be aware that, according to research and according to experts, asbestos kills on long lines. Patients only suffer from asbestos fibre after 20, 30 years. We don't really know the true images of people's vulnerability by drinking water in contact with asbestos pipes. Asbestos was not aware until 15 years ago, even though we had a salon or asbestos factory in Slovenia. On the basis of a picture of the risk of these pipes in the water network, the question is fully elucidated. As a chemist, I am aware that where we deal with very hard waters, highly secretionate carbonate, which forms a protective layer. But on the plants, on the knees, where there are narrowings where there are higher water speeds, there is no bedding and there is abrasion, there is grinding of these water pipes. More than that, when such sites are on the water network, there is a greater possibility that there is a greater concentration of asbestos fibres and, of course, people are even more at risk there. However, when we are discussing the need for a gradual replacement of these pipes and the willingness of our authorities to face the fact that a part of Slovenia has drinking water flowing through dangerous wiring, and when it has a negative attitude to go with the law to solve this problem, of course gradually, I have to say the following. On 21 January, on the Committee on the Economy, we discussed the implementation of the law banning the production and transport of asbestos products and the provision of funds for the restructuring of asbestos production in an incorruptible manner. And, as has already been said here, quite gently and honey, by Mr Bevek, the government does not implement the law. Out of the 6.2 billion planned by law in the 2003 and 2004 budget, 1.2 billion is missing. Even in this marriage, although people are dying, the government is going to a biological solution, so to speak, with death. He's waiting for as many people to die as possible, so they won't get compensation and get paid these years. This is the implementation - even in this law, which has such an important impact on human health - of the so-called 'Doctory of Minister Kopač', that certain laws do not have to be implemented, even if they are beneficiaries of the outskirts of Slovenia, with demographically endangered parts, from parts where the lowest standard is. So I'm not surprised by the government's position on this marriage. He has no understanding for people who are at risk of people who don't belong to some elite. In fact, Minister Kopač has shown in some way that the government is primarily concerned about its people. Look, I also agree with this and I am pleased that colleague Butolen has pointed out that, in Slovenia, even in the field of drinking water supply, there is great inequality, inequality of people. In this area it appears that Slovenia is not a social state, that social differences are increasing - while some are surrounded by Pharaoh's wealth, others do not have drinking water. I agree that many gather rainwater through saloon roofs into their wells and that these are greatly threatened. I think that the picture of the threat to our citizens should be managed by at least the Slovenian government and not behave as it does by this law. Of course, I will support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of a colleague, Joseph Spindler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. I don't know how not to discuss for a long time, given that most of you have already said more or less. I believe that the country must certainly cut through the replacement of these saloon tubes, which need to be replaced, as I can argue that our water system in the luzomer region is still around 35 kilometers away. The findings are one or the other, so let those who know what is true. I wouldn't discuss it. However, I believe that the local communities will not be able to manage the necessary investment funds to replace these pipes, despite the fact that the law provides that the state should co-finance at least 50% of the funds here. Of course, some of these resources will also need to be provided primarily for self-sustainment of water. In particular, our area in north-eastern Slovenia is certainly the most acute, since the groundwater in Prekmurje is at a minimum level of health. There is a little better water on the right side of Mura, so it is easier for me to debate this, but I think that the country should put a little more resources into these underdeveloped areas for more equitable regional development, as has been the case in the law several times. I hope that this money will be used to the greatest extent for this purpose. Projects are more or less prepared, perhaps for new coverage and to remedy this acute problem, which is not just in our area. I know that there is a need for water supply from the White Land, and maybe another area that I haven't mentioned. However, I would like this money not to go particularly to the developed areas, as is now the case. I oppose this and I believe that we have a law on regionalism written and should also support it to this end. However, I would like this law or bylaws to be adopted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Janez Podobnik is still scheduled for discussion. Leopold Groschel. Bojan Konticz.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say in the introduction that I agree with all of you who have discussed in this direction that it is necessary to put into practice the legal provisions already adopted. I mean, of course, those who demand first the exercise of the rights of those who have become sick of asbestosism and have already been defined by law, and that they exercise the right that they are doing from this law. At the same time, it is important that, if necessary, we also establish by law a gradual elimination of the potential health of hazardous ingredients, such as asbestos pipes for the purposes of water distribution, perhaps also a replacement in the way Mr. Podobnik spoke about, parallel, new water hoses, so that existing pipes are left where they are, because their removal is harmful to health, especially for those who remove them. Special studies on the health of the harmful effects of asbestos pipes in our space have not been or have not been carried out. I also don't know the proven effect on the health of drinking water users from saloon pipes. For once, therefore, we do not have any data on the risks to water users supplied by the hydrodesal pipelines. However, it is true that more and more users are asking about the damage and demand for the replacement of asbestos pipes, although the proportion of asbestos pipes used by the public utility company, for example, is providing users in the toilet valley with drinking water only 5.7 per cent. That's more than 20 miles away. Despite the relatively modest share, it would take about 1.7 billion to replace these tubes with different diameters. The deadline provided for by this law, which we are considering today, is too pre-optimistic or too demanding. Three years is certainly not enough time to replace all disputed pipes. The average age of built asbestos cement pipes is about 35 years. I'm talking about our area. The pipes are coated inside with a millimeter, up to two millimetres thick layer of calcium carbonate or limestone, a water stone normally present as dissolved mineral in most of the water flowing through limestone rocks. Calcium carbonate is not a health harmful ingredient in direct contact with the surface of the drinking water line only in places where the layer of calcium carbonate is damaged. As I have already said, if, by law, mandatory replacements of asbestos pipes should be prescribed within a reasonable period, taking into account both time and financial scope. Companies operating and using water pipes with saloon pipes should develop a recovery programme that should contain accurate data on the cadastral, length and diameter of the saloon pipelines in use, the construction year, the number of users supplied and the book value of these pipelines. The programme must also define the costs of replacing the saloon pipelines, a realistic timetable in which it is possible to physically implement the investment, taking into account the technical documentation, and, of course, all the necessary administrative procedures. The proposed law defines professional supervision, which should have the nature of the supervisory coordination body, with tasks: to develop a uniform methodology for the development of recovery programmes, to assist companies with advice on the development of rehabilitation programmes, to assess the reality of the rehabilitation programmes produced, to confirm the rehabilitation programmes, to give consent to the amount of the asbestos tax and to monitor the purpose of using these funds, to monitor the implementation of the rehabilitation programmes. As already mentioned in the tasks of the Supervisory Coordination Body, it is likely that the so-called asbestos tax should also be considered in financing investments. It is, of course, unacceptable to expect that the local community will be able to allocate 50% of the funds to replace disputed pipelines, as this would mean too much burden for the budget of each local community. So, replace the pipe or replace yes, but consistent with needs and realistic assessments. If the harmfulness of asbestos in water has not already been proven, it certainly is not a health-friendly asbestos tube. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you. The flowers of Zalokar Orazem are not present at the moment. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to everyone, too! Today we are considering one of the laws that provides for preventive action and immediate action by the state and local communities. It imposes an accelerated replacement of hazardous and, in some cases, prolonged asbestos water networks with networks from more modern and safer materials. Given that there has been a lot of talk lately about safe and healthy nutrition and that more and more government departments are dealing with health problems, the problems of providing consumers with safe food, the problems of consumer protection - let me mention only the chloranphenicol circus, for example, tobacco and alcohol law - and given that this law is trying to reduce rapidly and eventually eliminate the harmful effects of outdated technologies, it is expected that this law will receive the weekly support of fellow Members. Especially since all studies confirm that asbestos is dangerous and cancerous and has been eliminated anywhere in the developed world more or less. Asbestos is a material that acts on organisms very slowly. Negative effects occur only after a longer period, after 10 or more years. Perhaps that is why asbestos-related problems are dealt with in such a lax and debilitating way, they are removed and allowed to remain large numbers of people exposed or forced not only to use asbestos, but even to enjoy asbestos, since it is a large part of the water networks from asbestos pipes. Asbestos is enjoyed by eating "healthy" drinking water. Despite the fact that we are all aware that there is a large and constant negative impact on citizens' health, that there is a great environmental and health burden, it is quite amazing that so far neither the Ministry of Health nor the Ministry of the Environment has given sufficient attention to this problem, nor has the government reacted. None of the government’s structures have done anything to remove this dangerous environmental burden by transporting healthy drinking water, removing it from use and replacing it with more friendly materials. Although a law was adopted in 1996, it joined the work of asbestos-related problems. The law deals with eliminating the effects of production and transport on this health of hazardous material, providing means of restructuring and also regulating the provision of financial compensation for those who have had direct contact with asbestos in production. So it is a marriage that will help the injured to ease the problems they have accumulated because of their long - term work with asbestos. However, the State implements its obligations under this law slowly and irreconcilably because the beneficiaries have considerable or even extremely serious problems. The state behaves as if there is no such problem at all. This law, which we are considering today and which has been put into the procedure by fellow Member Kelemin, essentially means the continuation of the law for the restructuring of asbestos production, as it seeks to address the most massive and most of the problems that remain associated with asbestos. To a large extent, it is a preventive nature, since the country's local communities are expected to replace harmful asbestos networks with more modern and health-friendly materials in a few years, thus preventing the further poisoning of the people of large parts of Slovenia with carcinogen asbestos. Since I believe that we all want to contribute to the improvement of the situation in this area, it is logical to be pragmatic and practical and to support the law. This will enable the government, together with local communities, to prepare programmes for the exchange of these networks and to provide several billion tolars per year in future budgets. These investments in the replacement of asbestos networks are investments in citizens' health and will certainly come back, indirectly and directly. From the discussions today, it was felt that money played an important role. I believe so, and that's true. However, when we have a choice of safety and health or luxury, health must take precedence. Of course, we know from all these media releases that a lot of money is being transferred to our standard, to prestige, so often money is running out for the most common, most urgent and most necessary things. However, the lack of money as an argument, or as one of the key arguments why the law is not supported, is ridiculous. I hope that he will overcome reason and that at least so-called greens in some parties, such as members of the Globe Association or doctors who have to deal with these problems on professional and ethical grounds, will step in together and provide appropriate support to this law. The country is the first to take a step toward better health care and will surely be followed by the congregations. I'll support this marriage myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. It's my friend Richard Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. I will be relatively brief because some of the things I wanted to say have already been said by some colleagues and colleagues. However, I would like to comment on some of the discussions that took place today in the debate on this law. It makes me very sad whenever I feel that this place is being misused for demagogism. Today there have been several speeches about demographics, demographically endangered areas, and so on. One of the Members even said that most of these pipes were in demographically threatened areas. Of course, he was either speaking consciously, demagogically, or he was speaking, so I decided to introduce myself, not least because he had not forgotten to greet television viewers with the true truth. I have before me national guidelines for asbestos, a final report produced by the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia. And on page 55, there's one "sharp" table, I mean "sharp", not exactly "sharp", if we realize that cement asbestos pipes, of course, represent a certain problem and that they will need to be replaced as soon as possible. Of course, I advocate that they be replaced when necessary, but not that we and some "horuk" are going and changing pipes if they are still useful and if they can still be used normally. These pipes were said to be in demographically endangered areas. See, most of these pipes are in the Radovljica municipality, 200 kilometers away, Kranju 190 kilometers away, Domžalah slightly over 140 kilometers away, Koper a little over 120 kilometers away, Gorica slightly over 110 kilometers away, followed by Ptuj, Grosuplje, Novo Mesto, Sežana, Žalec and so on. Then let us consider whether these are congregations where we have problems with demographics or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you. I give my word to Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you again, all of you. Various literature, laws, regulations, general, such and other, highly reasoned, precise definitions have been mentioned in the debate of both parliamentary groups and Members. I did not speak on behalf of the Group of Members on these matters as a proposalr, one of the candidates and also on behalf of the Group of Members. But that doesn't mean we haven't looked at them, that we haven't studied them, that's for sure. We have come all the way from the top, from the Constitution, and we have looked at all the legislation in this area, not just when we have been preparing this bill, now again. Unfortunately, I did not personally use all these instruments in my debate because you are with these papers that exist with us and abroad, who knows what we cannot help. We just can't help each other. Especially in our case, when we want to achieve something that most people want to ignore and all rely on just some paper and some scientific knowledge, no one wonders what is actually going on in practice. What matters most is respectable colleagues and colleagues! The facts speak differently. I'm not going to argue that all these papers and studies that they do somewhere in the world and even in our country, that they're all for the trash, but they're not always the most useful, they're not. Why? I'll tell you, don't be impatient. In short, one would not have thought or found that it was by chance or we had not studied certain documents; surely we did. The government has, for example, stated in its papers or in its reply, which is old, as we have already established, for all eternity, that it regulates a whole range of things in this area, from taking measurements, studies, national programmes and so on. That's all right, and maybe even in some things, this bureaucracy comes in handy. But in this case, the one we want to save from these laws, all of these papers, all of this documentation doesn't help anything at all. As a result, we can accept not yet how many measurements we do, but our people will still drink water in which asbestos is also – this is proven to be, and also large amounts of this asbestos have already been discovered in some waters. It is, however, a fact that it is simply not enough for people to deal with it because the public is under-aware of what I have said and does not exert public pressure on the profession and authority to adequately resolve these matters. That's the problem! It is logical, I am aware of the role of the government, you, coalitions, and so on, because of, I don't know, some chronic lack and investment of the state and the use of state money for all possible things, unnecessary, also these various nonsense studies that have already been done by millions - and the studies are being done to find out with some study that a new study needs to be done and so on, because I have already talked about this, I have shown you in concrete terms. Even the bureaucrats themselves wrote that this is how they do it. Billions of money gets thrown into the trash like that, but the most urgent things don't get solved. Nothing helps us with a whole range of good data, and we haven't solved a particular problem yet. It's a basic fact. All of you say that studies show that there is no evidence that they have clearly not proved that there is a direct causal link to the development of malignant, cancerous creatures and so on among the population. And they didn't prove that it doesn't exist. They didn't prove it! No! No! All they say is that there is no evidence that this exists, but they have not proved that this does not exist - because they do not know, they simply do not know where there is a certain increase in disease within an area. On the contrary, here in the one you have also mentioned, of course you are saying - but I do not resent your fellow Members, in your deliberations you refer to the information that is appropriate to you from certain documents. And I refer to those who answer to me because I think I advocate the interest of a wider number of people who are affected by drinking water with asbestos. I don't mind you talking about the things that please you, your ears and perhaps your consciousness. But look, it says here about the asbestos hazard in this research assignment. The problem of asbestos in drinking water and the increased number of cancers have been studied in a number of epidemiological studies. In most cases there was no statistically significant increase, but a slightly increased number of cancers were observed in people who used high asbestos drinking water. Please! A slight increase in the number of cancers in people who have been drinking drinking water with high asbestos content. Yeah, what else do you want? Or do you want 10,000 dead at your feet so that one day you realize there's a problem that needs to be solved? Please don't solve important social issues in the country. No, no, no. This needs to be resolved already on the basis of indications that something exists and is likely to cause any greater harm to the health of the population due to asbestos content, and action must be taken. Not wait for a whole series of studies that will show that this has actually happened. And look what the government has written down here, the measures it will take in this area, look, although from 1999, I don't know what you've done to this day. The project was completed at the end of October this year, with regard to all these various measurements and studies and so on, only data on the amount of asbestos cement water pipes still in use and data on cancer patients and deaths should be processed and a final report should be written. You've seen, my friends! So we'll be waiting right now to figure out and collect all the data on the dead and write the final report from the cancer registry. That's it. All right, all right, so do I, if you guys agree. In fact, I am not proposing this bill because of my own interest absolutely nothing. I don't drink water from water pipes like that. I also prefer to give up coffee and tea, if possible, where I know it exists. No, I'll protect myself because I'm ecologically conscious. I suggest it for the people. But I don't need any election campaign either, and so on, if someone were to do this to me, you might already know about my definitions, but whatever. I work quite freely as a free Member. You all also talk to a whole range of experts and so on, what studies have been done. But you didn't want to say everything that was written in this research paper. Look, I'll read it if you want. You are simply citing your arguments, and I will refer to those who are in favour of solving this situation I am talking about. The situation in Slovenia is such, and I quote one part that we have a relatively large amount of asbestos cement pipes for drinking water and for the most part the deadline for safe use has already expired. That's what you all talked about. Most people said that we actually came to a time when the deadline was up. The whole range of experts and studies, and so on, speaks when these pipes run out, they need to be replaced. And then you say that ad hoc requires us to replace it. No, no, no. Within six years or seven years, five years before the programme is made and so on, a very professional approach should be made to this and it may not be necessary to replace it everywhere, so a programme should be made. Information must be collected in this area by the government, the authorities, to do something about this programme. If there's no need to replace these pipes in some area, why replace them? I completely agree. But there are certain areas that need to be replaced immediately for an expired period of use and because of this, this is very important, which is what you all are neglecting, because I said earlier that I would talk about facts, not just by thinking about some empty strawing. Now tell me, if it is written here, even in this report, which I have already read, "because pipes on certain parts of the water network simply disappear". Yeah, where are they going, dear fellows? Yeah, where do they go? Yeah, in the water. And people drink it. I'll tell you that I have experience with certain sections of pipes where there are water, because we don't have water speed regulations in these pipelines, we don't have a regulation. But if we have one, let me know if we have one. So we don't have it. Because the water speeds in these pipelines are too high and we know if the water is running slowly in some medium, and especially in the saloon pipes, then there is a collection of some lining inside. But if this rate of water is too high, and this can be calculated, then physics can calculate it, and there's erosion. I told you before, you just don't want to listen and all the other arguments you're saying are set here, not just here, as in this report it says that certain sections of the tube have disappeared, but that we actually dug the pipes when the defect occurred, to a defect that was also a few meters long completely worn out, "slipped," I say in our jargon. And where did that come from? Where did that asbestos go? People drank it. Where else? They ate him. And if the minister says there's nothing you need to do in this area, it's all O. K., and so on, then have him do the asbestos pipes on his salad. If it's so harmless. I understand that. Then why not? In short, my assessment is that those essential elements, essential causes, such as the data that should be taken into account in this proposal of the law, should be replaced by water pipes at least where this is really necessary because of the large consumption of the tube due to the longevity of the tube. Those arguments that speak in favour of replacing these pipes should be taken into account. Unfortunately, however, you have decided not to do so. Anyway, I really wanted him. While we will see what the vote will be, but really, as has already been said, a little more could be done by various environmentalists, as well as by all the others who are in some associations for the protection of a healthy living environment, such as the Globe and so on, the Presidents, a little bit more attention should be given to these things and should take into account really those arguments that are the most productive or which could actually be bent in this direction in order to approach the implementation of this law and that, indeed, where this is absolutely necessary, if not elsewhere, they would have made a programme on which they would replace the asbestos water pipes. Now I have to argue with that. All these theories and explanations of how the government helps to replace these water pipes or generally in the construction of water systems in Slovenia, as you yourself have found that many people live above the standard, so to speak, and there is no water in Slovenia. Even in my place, where I live, there's so much that people drink challenging water - that even a lot of water has not been built. Good, because people have also received the right age, even up to 80 years of age, regardless of drinking the drip, thank God, they seem to be extremely healthy or whatever. But the government as such should pay more attention and more attention to providing healthy drinking water to citizens. It's her fundamental duty. What they are doing now is not worth it or is a very bad example or bad work of authority in this area. See, most of the projects funded by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, if I am very precise, are co-financed by the construction of new water systems of 20%. 20%! It's almost nothing, so to speak. In addition, VAT should be deducted so that the final figure comes into the exposed situation of 16%. By 16%, if you are going to calculate what procedures you have to perform in this regard, from the invitation to tender and so on to more complicated things, documentation and evidence of real costs and so on, this 16% net loss! It's a total loss! Therefore, the proposed 50%, in order to replace asbestos cement pipes, where this is really necessary, I do not think that there is an excessive percentage because local communities or system managers still need to invest large financial resources to replace these harmful pipes. I've tried to tell you just a few of the most solid arguments that you've somehow tried to forget or push aside. Above all, my assessment is that it is simply too little attention because people are under-informed. I didn't read it until the end - see, Dr. Peter Otorepek suggests that sections of the water network, where the pipes are the oldest and therefore most exposed to decay, be replaced as soon as possible - be replaced as soon as possible! - the rest in due course. The guides should draw up future plans, and so on. If you are referring to certain experts, I also mention the name of someone who is also Dr. and suggested that these pipes should be replaced as soon as possible for known reasons, which I have previously cited and solid arguments. This bill was proposed by a group of Members, Mr Ivan Bozič also signed, then Mr Franz Jazbec, Vincencio Demšar. Jože Jagodnik, the United List, did not just sign it from Maribor, without connection, but with some arguments it is certain and agreed that this area will be settled. Others did not, or did not, come forward after my assessment of the need, because the facts themselves say that it is necessary to do so. I am just sure and expect you, colleagues and colleagues, to find an understanding of all that a certain part of the most endangered water systems we are trying to resolve on the basis of this law in the interests of our people and the health of our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you. I also give Rudolph Petan the floor on the list of reported discussers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I'll start at the end, because my colleagues have already said a lot. It is likely that we all remember that asbestos cement or cement asbestos products should not be left in nature or placed in landfills or, at least, should not be left in nature. Why? Because it's a harmful impact on the groundwater. This is said to be a dump, but we should be able to transport water for drinking and for consumption through these products. That's what they say. It's totally illogical. It's totally the opposite. This is the only fact that says that in nature we must not waste these products in order to replace water pipes as soon as possible, because this is probably even more harmful than dumping in nature before it enters the groundwater. But here it is directly in contact with the water we enjoy every day. This is said to be an argument that speaks in favour of the proposer and in favour of this law. If we go in the right order. It certainly has to be replaced. Remember when we started laying or using these pipes. It was a period of some fashion. Asbestos was fashion, especially for large diameters, because these pipes are easier, even editing is easier. This is said to be purely an entrepreneurial interest and less a health interest. On the other hand, if you introduce one thing into a system like water systems, the damage will not appear in 10 or 20 years, possibly in 30 years. But abroad they quickly discovered the impact that pipes have on water, which flows through them, and they began to act quickly. Foreign countries are interested in replacing these pipes as soon as possible. Of course, there is something else. We're doing studies instead of trying to fix something. Of course, these subscribers influence these studies and then it's no wonder that we get a study like this that says that there's a higher number of cancers, but I don't know, as it's written down, I'm a little embarrassed to say that it's not harmful, it's an increased impact of cancer, but it's not critical. I don't know what should be critical. Of course, we have another problem. We also have to say this in the beginning of the work success from the previous system, which was not always bad, so that we will not get it wrong, but we have built a factory for these cement and asbestos products and, of course, we now have this factory. The fact is that we have a lot of disabled people here because of asbestos, but even though we have a law that we passed at the end of the previous term, these people do not yet get those rights that go out of this law. Now we want to reform this law so that these people can get what they want later, if we can even give them any compensation, if the money can take away the loss of health. We still do not want to admit to them, as does the entire health care system in the previous period, that these people who have worked with asbestos, that they have disabilities, health problems and that they are getting sick. So now we don't want to admit that these asbestos tubes are harmful to us and to those of us who use this water to harm the body. We don't want to just admit it yet and move around and do new and new analyses to find that it's not that bad. The fact is, the pipes through which water flows are subjected to erosion. Asbestos is such a thing, even if it is mixed with concrete to fertilize, the wind has already affected it. Therefore, the roofs of asbestos are also harmful because the wind erodes, because it is such a product that it shines, and these are very small particles, which, of course, we breathe. But even worse, in pipes where these pipes literally break, where the flow is higher and where the velocity in these tubes is higher. Where the speed is lower, there may be other defects, such as cracks, and there is even worse. Not only is asbestos washed there, but external influences occur, it's said to be penetrating from the ground. There are a lot of things that are harmful across the dumps, and I'm going to mention it now, because I started at the beginning, and there's a lot of waste, animal waste, and it comes in the pipe and into the water. Therefore, we should not be surprised if we also have such problems with water biocontamination due to these pipes. But that's not really enough for us. I would also like to point out why some resist so much, even though the analysis shows that water losses are abnormally large, even up to a third and even more likely to be lost. But that doesn't bother us. I'd like to mention another matter here. Probably not for free, they're cracks, but they're triangulated even more, and it's almost impossible, because then we should have real water heaters on the plumbing, and we don't have that. The fact is, there's something else. Under it is hiding something else - so it is said - that this is a very convenient thing so that some large water consumers can [[This is the food industry and someone else]] They get water for free, and then we say, we have asbestos cement pipes that leave a lot. That's not true! This, too, should be asked, where there are such terrible losses of water, who receives water for free. This too, gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, is not new in Slovenia. I believe these rumors myself, of course I can't prove it, because then I should have dug up what makes no sense to us. But it's also a convenient thing, so some people resist to switch pipes, because then we couldn't say if we had a litho or some other tube to say, and now we're losing 30% of the water. That's not working. This is only possible in these tubes because we know that cracks are relatively common, but not so large. And to conclude. We all know that asbestos cement products are not good for waste. For the water transfer that we enjoy every day, they would still be good. Ladies and gentlemen, this is total anachronism and it's talking about something else, not what's in here, it's harmful. It's harmful. That's why I'm going to support this law by saying that if all these pipes were replaced today, it would have been a long time ago, everyone would have been more or less contaminated, one more less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you. This was a debate between Members and Members. Before taking advantage of the remaining time, if we so decided, I would only say my decision on the additional proposal made by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Under the ordinary legislative procedure, the first is to consider the proposal for a law [[These are Articles 121 to 124 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly]] no additional decisions are envisaged. Therefore, the People's Party also refers to Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, which, while referring to the Government's participation in the work of the National Assembly, I believe that it is possible to make a proposal as a separate item on the agenda or possibly within the framework of the questions sent. Article 122 states that, after a general discussion, it shall be decided whether the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration or not. We have five minutes left before the end of this agenda item, and I ask whether, in accordance with Rule 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it within these five minutes. A colleague of mags. Little fella, you want to discuss it? Anybody else want me to share my time? [[Nobody]] Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me a few more words from my side regarding the law we are enacting regarding asbestos pipes. Many arguments were made regarding asbestos pipes, as regards the impact of asbestos on public health, on the provision of healthy drinking water, which is in the public interest. Of course, I will be most interested in the vote at the end of the debate in the evening. As they had already said before me, the effects directly via water on humans are not clearly proven, but there is no indication that these effects are not. The effects may also occur, and we seriously need to ask ourselves, after the amortisation of these pipes. We know how many millions of miles there are of these pipes, and the serious question is how we will solve this issue in addition to the law. Served pipes are likely to see the light of the world, making them a very dangerous agent. For a period of time, this dangerous substance shall not be destroyed but shall then take effect. This will be a serious question of what to do with this waste material. That is why I strongly support the adoption of this law for replacement. At the same time, the adoption process could also complement these provisions on how to deal with this material so that it does not adversely affect the health of the population of Slovenia. It's our responsibility. We believe that this law needs to be adopted in order to be resolved in a timely manner so that we do not face the results and consequences similar to that of asbestos manufacture, what is governed by asbestos law. Experts have told us that the key consequences and the greatest of all will only come, for this time when the disease and the incubation period are very long and can only occur after a considerable number of years. Thus, any misrepresentation of this law or postponement is irresponsible. Once again, I strongly urge all Members to support this law and to proceed with the adoption process. Whether all the provisions and arrangements are properly laid down, I cannot judge this entirely precisely. However, in the adoption process, we have the opportunity to submit supplements to make the law the way Slovenia needs it. Slovenia has too little experience, I'm afraid. Experience also with a failure when the risk of different substances has already been identified. After all, this river Hole was polluted.She knew the professional public, but in particular government services, but did not notify the citizens. What is even more worrying is that we did not do what we told them to do and that we did not do what we told them to do. During that time, children bathed in dirty waters, and this left an effect on human health. It's not just about the law, it's not just about the financial consequences, it's about the health of us and the health of our offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the course of the meeting, decide at 18.15, and therefore interrupt this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Nice greeting to everyone on my behalf. We're moving to six. PERFORMANCE OF THE REPORTS ON THE WORK OF THE COMMISSION ON RELATIONS WITH SLOVENIA IN INTERNAL AND WORLDWIDE, OF 27. MARCH 2001 TO 31. Decembra 2002. The report, with proposals for conclusions, was submitted by the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, both within and around the world, for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Franz Puksic, for an additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! The Commission for Relations of Slovenians in Substitute and Worldwide, as you know, was appointed approximately six months after the composition of the National Assembly in this mandate. I didn't want to walk through the statistics that the commission did in this mandate, but because I noticed in the paper today that someone tried to do it, but with huge errors, it is imperative that I do it. The data have been in the work programme since it was established, i.e. on 27 March 2001, until 31 December, i.e. by the end of last year. During this time, some 20 meetings were held, more consideration was given to the draft laws as an interested working body and other acts of the National Assembly. Other forms of work of the commission abroad were visits by the commission delegation to Slovenians in place and around the world, visits to various meetings, meetings or other matters on the basis of invitations. There were over 70 different events in the National Assembly. Among them are receptions of representatives of Slovenes in place and around the world, working meetings, two all-Slovenian meetings in the National Assembly, press conferences, meetings, meetings and other talks. The Commission's work on minorities has been based on tackling the problem of closing bilingual schools in Austria's Koroška, with topography, of course, very recently also with Radio 2 and Radio Agora, then the position of Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries in connection with Slovenia's integration into the European Union, the position of Slovenian minorities in Italy and the implementation of the protection law, and of course it deals with letters from roof organisations. The Commission and the Office of the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia were linked, namely, cooperation and monitoring of certain activities related to the call for tender and also information to the Commission concerning the selection on the basis of the call for tender, and, of course, in close cooperation with the preparation of laws such as the law on external matters, the law on registering electoral law, the law on citizenship and so on. Of course, I must say here that we have had good cooperation with the other ministries mentioned. The Commission has also responded all three years to the proposal for the preparation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, with amendments. Unfortunately, there were no amendments to the home labour force, which was on the Finance Committee, and the National Assembly had not adopted them. In addition to everything else, the Commission has drawn up a resolution on Slovenians around the world, a resolution on Slovenians in substitution since 1996, adopted on 23 January 2002 a resolution on Slovenians around the world. This resolution on Slovenians around the world has encountered an extremely positive relationship. I got the feeling that, after this resolution was adopted, Slovenians around the world kind of breathed, revived, but the Republic of Slovenia, worried, wanted to take care of the preservation of Slovenia, Slovenian language and culture. By this resolution, we have actually given them recognition for all they have been through, to the early second regime when they were moving out, and to all that they have done for the homeland of the Republic of Slovenia throughout their entire period, wherever they are. The Commission participated in and became acquainted with the work of civil society, such as the Slovenian World Congress, the Emigrant Society of Slovenia in the world and the Slovenian Emigrant Mother and Rafael Society. In the National Assembly, the Commission organised working discussions related to the current issue, which were attended by representatives of Slovenians from both abroad and around the world. During the discussions on this issue after the resolution was adopted, we also set up a bill with a working address: About Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is also our priority work in the next period. If I fly a few more visits to the Slovenians in place and around the world, I must point out that at the visits organised by the Commission, particularly at these major ones, there were also individual representatives of the Slovenian Office in place and around the world, which proved very useful - on the one hand, they received political answers, and on the other hand, specific responses to the calls for proposals and so on. Through calls and visits, the Commission obtained information and took note of the problems and suggestions of Slovenian organisations and societies. Visits were both assessed as necessary and useful by both members of the commission and representatives of Slovenians abroad, as Slovenia has often been marked by lack of interest and ignorance and therefore inadequate relations with them. On visits to Slovenians in place and around the world, the Commission also visited representatives of the authorities of these countries. Commission delegations visited Brazil, Argentina, Bosnia, Switzerland, Sweden, and had official discussions with representatives of the authorities, who could exchange opinions and suggestions on the life and work of the Slovenians living in these countries. Usually these discussions took place in a very friendly and constructive atmosphere, and members of the delegation were so formally familiar with the views and intentions of the authorities regarding the situation and assistance of the Slovenians living there. In their interviews, the authorities also usually promised to examine and, if possible, take into account the proposals made by representatives of the Commission, which they also referred to on the basis of interviews with the Slovenians. With the importance and necessity of such a visit also with the representatives of the authorities, it is also written in all the dispatches received after visits from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, i.e. from embassies or general consulates or consulates in the countries where we have been. Following these visits, the Commission also, of course, prepared a report, forwarded it to the Government, the Committee on International Relations and other stakeholders in this area. With regard to receptions in the National Assembly, it is important to say that these receptions in the National Assembly towards the end of the year have always resulted in some kind of reviews of the work of the previous year and a framework programme of work forecasts for the coming year. Thus these receptions are not only formal but also substantive, as these representatives who participate here also participate substantively in the next year's programme. The Commission also has 3 working bodies or working groups for Slovenians in place and around the world. One was already in advance for the preparation of the resolution, and now there are two, one working group on European programmes and regional cooperation, and the other working group is in the field of culture and education. These two groups are preparing a joint meeting on how in this area after May 2004, when we will be operating in this single area without borders. It is important, however, that we also amend the resolution on Slovenians in place in this preparation. After five years, certain things have grown and innovation is needed. One of the working groups is the working group on the preparation of the law on Slovenes living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Together, we can be pleased if we bring this law through parliamentary procedure in this mandate. I am deeply confident that we will be able to do so together. It is now so far away from the law that in May we will deal with it at a meeting of the Commission, but, of course, a working group, so that we will send it through the DKPs and through societies around the world. During a sufficiently long period of time, we also expect responses, as we have had in the drafting of the resolution. From the drafting of the resolution, we have very positive experience from this title. Of course, in the law we will also regulate areas that are not yet, even though there are many laws that partially regulate a particular issue concerning Slovenians in place and around the world. Tupa will now be governed by what is not yet, including repatriation and, of course, the implementation of elections around the world. It's not enough to have legislation when you know in advance that you can't enforce it. We have discussed these problems several times before the Commission, and in the end we have come to some conclusions that we will present in this law. So far, two important Slovenian meetings have been held in Parliament. To sum up just the fact that the first anniversary of the Republic of Slovenia was the 10th anniversary of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, that the meeting was attended by 59 representatives of Slovenian societies from the world and the replacement, and that, according to official Slovenian policy presentations, from government to parliament, 27 other discussers spoke. The next meeting was last July 8th, where 57 representatives of Slovenian societies and organisations were present to discuss 33 more debates. This year we are preparing again on 8 July the 3rd meeting, at which we will also invite all representatives, Slovenia and Slovenia, who are parliamentarians around the world or in federal or national parliaments. I propose, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, that the report with the proposed conclusions, but I have also seen some of the amendments that you have tabled and some additional conclusions, also support and adopt, as this will make it possible to better understand and understand the vocabulary of the world. I am sure that Slovenia is and will remain the country of all Slovenians, and no matter where they are and why they had to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u121	Mr. President, thank you very much. The government has not notified itself to the debate. Between us, I very much welcome the representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Črtomir Špacapan. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will first be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u122	Madam Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State. I was very pleased to accept the appointment of the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world. Why not, for I have lived among them for almost half a century. Unfortunately, however, this Commission has not been introduced into the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why one? Maybe out of memory or based on the view she gave in the first Drnovšk government, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, and she commented that there would be no problem with the emigrants, because nature would solve it itself. That's what they say they'll die and they'll be gone. I hope this opinion, if it was then extended, that today is no more. As you can see from the report, the commission was extremely busy. I therefore congratulate President Franz Puksic for his energy and vision and, of course, the Vice-President, Mr Jožet Ašić, and all members of the Commission for extremely good cooperation and great work. In Novi Slovenija we support the report that has been submitted and we may also say something else on this topic. However, on my behalf and on behalf of New Slovenia, I would like to comment on certain areas and the situation on them. Slovenians around the world, when I use this term, I also think about our foreigners, and I will also talk about the needs and conditions between them in this context. First of all, I would like to confirm good cooperation between our commission and the Slovenian Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Since our establishment or the establishment of our commission, this office has been headed by a third secretary of state. However, it seems that each of them must learn in the workplace, but I must admit that everyone has done it well. This is certainly not a good sign, for some feel that this office is some sort of waiting room for a higher city. In fact, this is a recognition to all the secretaries of state who had this city, because they all advanced to higher places. Of course, this is to some extent beneficial, even though it is not for working with displaced persons to become acquainted with dilemmas and areas that may not have been known before. In any case, I would not like to hear rumors that this office will end in its current function and that some functions may be transferred to lower levels in order to achieve this. It seems to me that this would be a bad sign of government for all Slovenians, not just those who live outside Slovenia. While I'm at the office, I'll mention a few other things. Look, since our independence, we've started with the ministry of Slovenians around the world. But if today really happened what the rumours say, then it would also be a strange guide for all of us, even for us in Parliament. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. However, I must draw attention to the fact that some State secretaries in this place have been committed to transferring the activities of present societies to a state institution through which all the work would be done. As you probably already know, there are four organisations among us, whose activity in the field of contacts and working with Slovenians is quite large. The oldest is, of course, Rafael's society, founded by the Slovenian Catholic Church at the beginning of the previous century. The second is the Slovenian expatriate queen, who established the previous regime and also served him for political purposes, so that she had control over the emigrants. Since the birth of our country, this organization has become a civil society. The third is the World Slovenian Congress, which was established on the day of the attack on Slovenia in the presence of many Slovenes and Slovenes from the world. For years they have organized a meeting for Slovenian experts in the world and at home, such as meetings with doctors, meetings with businessmen, meetings with scientists and the like. The youngest is the Slovenian emigrant society Slovenia in the world. It was established by the younger returnees of the Slovenian family from Argentina. All these companies apply for invitations to tender for their programmes and so on, although not [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] at least the activity is moving forward. [[...]] If I return to the rumors that a institution should be set up to take over the current activities from at least three organisations, I would like to say that I see no reason for this and this would also mean that we are going back to some of the previous times. I must say that in our New Slovenia party we believe that this direction would be wrong and harmful for all of us, for the country and for our society. Firstly, this would be a return to the socialist practicalisation of civil society in Slovenia. This would be totally contrary to European practice. We already have a lot less real civil society in Slovenia than we would need. This, of course, would go in the opposite direction. Secondly, the country, as we know, has not been able to solve in a centralised form many problems, nor has it been able to do so, which is why civil society participation is essential for us as well. Now there are some other comments that I would like to make. We often see a lack of vision as to what else needs to be done. Of course, this is not just a matter of the commission or the office, it is a question of our wider society. For this reason, I hope that our cooperation with the world's emigrants will also be able to popularise more widely among the peoples of our country. Some of the problem is that politicians did not know each other, managed or wanted to agree on what our national interests were. One would think that it is one of the national interests, that Slovenia is strengthening, not only at home, but also around the world, we have this example in many other emigrations around the world. It would be sad, therefore, if the Slovenians did not prepare the opportunity to consolidate this vision and our national interest in this regard. The possibilities of preparing together with our emigrants and foreigners are very urgent in this sense that we should think when we come to the European Union, how we can work with our foreigners, and especially with the people who are in the world. It is known that some nations, for example, the Irish government has made it possible with great broad-mindedness for people, I do not know which generation, in the United States of America, to obtain Irish passports and then to operate in the European Union. Of course, disappointment is so much because we have repeatedly warned the government that it would be useful to have or to present a plan for cooperation, or how to prepare and how to prepare our foreign nationals to identify options or perhaps even threats to cooperation in the field of emigration, economy and so on, after Slovenia enters the European Union. This is a question that has never really been, I would say, prepared, despite our many calls. In any case, we are pleased that this report has come to the National Assembly and has shown that the Commission is working and that it has many plans by the end of its term of office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Ever since I was a student, I've been accompanied by the introductory version of "land, you're like health." Wherever I went around the world, I liked to go back to my home and feel it, even though it did not always rain or very rarely, honey and milk. When you meet our nephew abroad, when you hear the Slovenian word, you feel warm that the Slovenian word also means something in the world, and we hope and believe that it will not die. Our natives, Slovenians all over the world, unite in society. Why? When I work happily on the Home and Homecoming Commission, I face these problems when we listen to them, what makes them difficult, why they hang out, and what their goals are. Material resources can't, although, for whatever reason, someone has left our country, now independent Slovenia, a better piece of bread, can't replace that mental, mental, hearty satisfaction when you feel among your own in the big family. In societies, they unite mainly in order to keep and be able to talk in a domestic, Slovenian word. Therefore, it is not enough for a home country or a home country to offer only some moral support to them to give them recognition from time to time. Unfortunately, the world is getting materialized and more and more and more is going through money, everything is being paid, and the saying is that everything is being paid and everything is coming back. Slovenia will come back richly when certain investments, not only as I said, are moral aid, but it also materially supports our locals so that they can get together more easily. In this committee we have visited many, rains face either such or other problems. It is essential that we provide them with our books, that they have live contact with their home country and, on the other hand, there are increasingly important electronic media to enable them to listen to the radio, watch television from their home logs and with their home, Slovenian word. I believe that we will be richly paid and that the basic problem is that we are providing them with a certain possibility of return, because our natives, who have been abroad for a long time, have a desire to return to their home, to their relatives, acquaintances, friends and relatives. We believe that the youngest, third or even fourth generation is faced with certain problems, because the trend of young people is slightly different from those who have been absent for decades, but are always loved within their material capabilities, as well as within the framework that the country can provide them, are returning, as I said, to their home places and recall the youth they have experienced in our country. Although the third generation has already adopted foreign citizenship or citizenship abroad, the countries in which they live could, with our help, also retain the Slovenian word and Slovenian consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mr Samo Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! We support the work of the Commission for Relations with Slovenians in place and around the world in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. Despite at first a rather uncertain fate, when individual working bodies were established in the National Assembly in early 2001, we supported the establishment of a commission in the United List of Social Democrats. We also supported the establishment of the Commission because of the positive experience of the previous mandate, as its member at the time, I can confirm that we have put the state interest at the forefront of our people living in substitution and around the world. However, we deliberately left aside party or partial daily political interests. Caring for indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, for Slovenian expatriates and locals is a constitutional category. The country also has the task of facilitating their contacts with their homeland. Article 5 of the Constitution also explicitly states that Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship can enjoy special rights and benefits, the type and scope of which are determined by a specific law. In the United List of Social Democrats, we unanimously supported both the basic resolution adopted by our National Assembly in the last seven years, namely in 1996 the resolution on the situation of Slovenian indigenous minorities in neighbouring countries and the related tasks of the State and other factors of the Republic of Slovenia, and in 2000 the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. We also have a considerable number of laws and regulations that determine their specific rights and facilitations as already referred to in Article 5, paragraph 2, of the Constitution. It is particularly useful to review such legislation recently prepared by the Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world. From this point of view, we can see that Slovenians are very well taken care of in place and in the world at the normative level. According to the Slovenian encyclopedia, more than 350,000 expatriates and their descendants live outside the borders of Slovenian ethnic territory. Some estimates suggest that there would be about 500,000 of them, more than a fifth of all Slovenians. Of course, this number takes into account emigrants who are aware of ethnic origin. In the early 21st century, experts from 170,000 Slovenians living on the traditional Slovenian settlement territory are estimated directly for the state border. Of these, there are 100,000 in Italy in Tržaška, Goriška and Videmski krajina, in Austria in Koroška and Štajerska up to 60,000, in Hungary or in Use 5,000 and several thousand along the Slovenian-Croatian border. In addition to traditional categories such as foreigners, evicted and natives, there are unfortunately quite neglected Slovenian groups in the countries that originated in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia's entry into the European Union will significantly change the position of the Slovenian national minority in Italy, Austria and Hungary. Our Commission has therefore set up two working groups for European programmes and regional cooperation and for culture and education. We will therefore certainly be members of the European Union from 1 May next year. The borders with Italy, Austria and Hungary will disappear and will virtually no longer be detectable by the entry of Slovenia into the Schengen system. The problems at the Slovenian-Croatian border will, from then on, be eased by a small-border agreement, which has several problems in its application. In the European Union, we will thus not have internal borders, the flow of goods, capital, persons and services will be relaxed. This will make life at the current border much easier, and it will have a positive impact both at home and at the so-called "replacement." However, this does not mean that the state should give up its national minorities in neighbouring countries, even the opposite. In my view, cooperation will need to be further strengthened, but on a completely different basis, especially in the area of culture, education and the care of Slovenian language. For this reason, we also support the update of the resolution on the situation of the indigenous Slovenian minority in neighbouring countries in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. I also propose that the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, in the National Assembly organise a public presentation of opinions, the conclusions of which can be a good basis for supplementing the resolution mentioned above. Of course, particular concern must also be given to the Slovenians who live in the countries created in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. That is where they are facing major social problems, perhaps even bigger than anywhere else in the world. The country must also respond to various crises in the world, such as the economic and financial breakdown of Argentina, where many of our fellow citizens live. I believe that the government has responded well in a particular case, as quite a few of our South American cousins have returned to their homeland. The government will certainly be actively involved in drafting a law on relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians living outside its borders, as has been said and said in the Commission's conclusion. And to conclude. Of course, I will not discuss or comment on these individual parts of the report. I would like to point out that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed conclusions together with the amendments of the Group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Ašić. However, he has doubts about the fourth decision, because we believe that the status of the Slovenian office is in place and worldwide under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we are committed to maintaining the scope of work and competences of the organisation envisaged so far. Thank you very much for your attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Franz Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u128	Once again, thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Social Democratic Party, we are happy and proud that in the country we love not only us who live in Slovenia but also Slovenians who live around the world managed to convince the majority of us in this mandate and to establish - although a little late - a commission as a self-employed working body for Slovenians in the neighbourhood and around the world. The report assessed that the work so far had been good, so we agree with the report in the Social Democratic Party and will also support the Commission's proposed conclusions. It is important for us to stress in particular the symbolic and substantive level of the organization of the All-Slovenian meeting of Slovenians in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia; during visits by Slovenians around the world and in place of official talks with parliamentary and government representatives in those countries where Slovenians live. It seems important to us that a resolution on Slovenians around the world has been prepared and adopted in the National Assembly. On this occasion, however, we must also draw attention to the problems that have arisen when the secretary was replaced last year, just so that such mistakes will no longer be repeated. In the Social Democratic Party, we want the Commission to continue its work mainly in areas such as the drafting of legislation, secondly, task forces, European programmes and regional cooperation, and cooperation in the field of culture and education, and to prepare well for May 2004. Finally, we hope that legislation will be adopted or amended within the meaning of the law on elections to the National Assembly, the election of the President and the referendums so that the Slovenians around the world can still exercise the right given them by law. Of course, we also support the other tasks that the Commission has set. In the Social Democratic Party, we are aware that the national interest is a good cooperation between Slovenians at home and abroad. So I will conclude with the thought that we all agreed at last year's meeting in the National Assembly: Slovenians at home and around the world love their homeland and mother tongue; this is what we have proved for thousands of years, and this is what we are proving today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, when we reviewed the report on the work of the Commission on Relations with Slovenians in place and around the world, we unanimously assessed that the Commission had done a lot of work in the last two years. The work concerned the political, economic, cultural and social situation of Slovenians living in place and around the world. A resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world is particularly important in this mandate. However, it is true that the important work of the Commission in the coming period, in the coming months and years when the resolution adopted will have to be implemented, and will also bring a great deal of responsibility to the Commission, I hope that it will adopt a law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians living outside its borders. An important fact, which is not highlighted so much in the report, is that the Commission, at its visits to Slovenians in place and around the world, acts in a uniform manner and to the extent possible excludes the political diversity of its members. Almost always tried to reach consensus, in particular on some of the rare issues where views of individual facts were different. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that regular meeting and meeting of Slovenians is important in place. By visiting and listening to the problems the Slovenians face, the Commission has achieved a threefold effect. First of all, she introduced some sort of "supervisor" over the work of the Slovaks. Secondly, by her visits, she warned the authorities of the countries in which Slovenes live that the country, the Republic of Slovenia, has control over the implementation of the policy towards foreigners. Thirdly, it has been an excellent practice that the Commission has also met with the parliamentary colleagues of the countries it has visited during its visits. In this way, the information and problems of the Slovenians were directly and immediately transmitted to the authorities of the country visited and the Commission has pointed out the shortcomings or irregularities with which Slovenians, in their place and in the world, meet in the countries where they live. All the visits that the Commission has had in its current mandate were very important for Slovenians both in place and around the world, which was reflected in a great interest in meeting with members of the Commission. It reflected the good readiness of the Slovenians visited to visit and the content of the visit, which was most up-to-date and structurally dedicated to the place and time. We also assess in the Slovenian National Party that the Commission will have to pay more attention in its work to the preservation of culture and language, which, despite all our efforts to keep it pale. Slovenians around the world have largely linked the preservation of language and culture to the money allocated to them by the home country of the Republic of Slovenia. Such thinking and conviction will have to be changed. To change the way to help Slovenians in substitution and in the world to preserve language and culture, while also introducing to the state authorities where these Slovenians live, the belief that they are legally and morally obliged to help these countries more and more, I think to the Slovenians as they have done so so far. The Commission's report is exhaustive. However, I also hope that the government will listen to some of the facts and requirements arising from the communication, and we especially assess that it would be good to draw up a Slovenian law and support the work of the Commission. Finally, let me mention the quality of professional assistance that is demonstrated by the quality of the material needed by all who help to study the problems of the Slovenians. Finally, let me mention, even though I didn't want to, what is said or read through the newspapers. I'm a member of this committee and morally [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Can I finish? I'm committed to getting ready to visit. [[...]] [[...]] I'm visiting Slovenians to help them. I was both in Bosnia and Argentina. Those who say that it is tourism or write only two things, whether three or five-member commission goes and visit the Slovenes, are familiar with the problems and help them where they live or where tens of thousands of Slovenians come from where they are, to Slovenia. It's the decision that these people have in mind. I am sure that all Slovenians appreciate the help of this commission and that they also need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Young Slovenia we see the Slovenians in the world as an important part of Slovenia. By their work abroad, they spread the glory of the Slovenes as good, hardworking and reliable people. This makes the way to an increasingly globalised world easier for all of us. We can learn much from their experience. They are part of the national body, and our national conscience can also be judged through their relationship with them. It is therefore right that the State of Slovenia, as an institution, also provides them with adequate assistance and support, maintenance and care, thus making life easier for foreigners who are a minority in a foreign country, and it can always, as well as for other Slovenians around the world who have found a new home, but have never forgotten the first one and have, as they like to say, been in two places at home. Support for foreigners and Slovenians around the world is also the main task of the Commission, which has drawn up the report that we are discussing today. The report is quite extensive, but we can still read it more as a catalogue of matters belonging to this area than we read as a substantively completed matter. Given the content, this is logical because we are talking about a living organism that is facing different situations and pressures daily. Unfortunately, situations arise daily, which widen the above-mentioned catalogue of matters, but not smaller. This is especially true of foreigners who have recently experienced increasingly difficult conditions for their activities and also for their lives. Part of this is the responsibility of the passive policy of the Slovenian government, which is not actively engaged in any particular problem. We believe that it would be valid for foreigners to adopt a more decisive policy against neighbouring countries, mainly because of the fact that we have handled minority issues adequately ourselves and therefore have the right to claim this from others. Today is not the time, not the city, to even remember the complications with the Slovenian radio program, for which our cousins were even willing to strike hungryly. The Slovenian Commission for Relations between and across the world has limited powers, but we believe that it has done quite well over the past period. A set of conclusions and proposals is awaiting realization, but this is already the task of the government, but not just governments. The whole cluster of entities is dealing with this issue and there are several voices about under-coordination that we agree with. However, the number of these entities could still be extended, for example, the Youth Office could actively cooperate with a view to retaining the active descendants of the displaced, as they could increase the content, even instead of being active only for the younger. Finally, I would like to add to this what we have already heard about the tourism commission. We feel that this is not the case, for these visits benefit mainly the natives and the Slovenes around the world. These visits are happy, they feel that they are not forgotten, and these visits are, we can say, not enough. When it comes to them, it is wise to look through the eyes of the emigrants and their wishes, but not only through costs, because Members are only or are ambassadors of the state of Slovenia and some temporary consular advisers of emigrants who always have a series of practical questions. We will therefore, of course, support the relevant conclusions proposed by the Commission in the Youth Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Ašič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia discussed the report on the work of the Committee on Relations with Slovenians in the world and the replacement during this term of office. The opinion of the parliamentary group is that the report may even be too much a collection of reports, different conclusions and information, which are only an annex to the report. Nevertheless, the Group believes that the report shows sufficiently the work the Commission has been doing during that period, with all the emphasis on the activities for which I have not repeated it, I think that it has been said many times today, in which areas and why this Commission was set up in the National Assembly. Among the Commission's greatest achievements during this term of office is certainly the proposal for a resolution Relation with Slovenians around the world prepared by the Commission's working group, which was adopted by the State Assembly on 23 January 2002 between Slovenians and Slovenians after a broad discussion. Of course, all the Slovenian meetings held at the Assembly premises in 2001 and 2002 are very important and are also being prepared for this year. The Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia regrets that such meetings are sometimes sought by participants and the public to take advantage of the care of the Slovenians and to fulfil constitutional obligations to the Slovenians in exchange and throughout the world as a domain of the opposition, in particular the largest opposition party. This confirms the year-on-year complication with speakers, where the gathered must be particularly welcomed by the leader or president of the largest opposition party, not by the largest parliamentary club in the National Assembly, if necessary. The performance of the tasks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in carrying out constitutional tasks to the Slovenians in exchange and around the world is, of course, the task of all, both positions and opposition parliamentary groups and the contribution of the LDS Group to the implementation of these is appropriate to its representation in the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are also of the opinion that the report should highlight some positive developments in improving the situation of, in particular, foreign Slovenians, where the policy of the Republic of Slovenia in this area certainly has an impact and the work of the Commission is certainly an integral part of this policy. The adoption of a global law for the Slovenian minority in Italy is certainly worth mentioning, where Slovenian policy has relatively much cooperation along the way and in a way that is appropriate in politics, so that the law has been adopted. We also helped to move from the adoption of the law to its implementation when the Slovenians in Italy faced some difficult material problems. It is certainly necessary to highlight the assistance of the School in Špetr and the election success of the Slovenians in Italy, for example, an improvement in the situation in Hungary, where there is also a movement at the Slovenian radio station in Zgornje Senik, and not least a rather positive step in the application of the requirements to Austria for the implementation of the Austrian obligation to the Slovenian programme on their radios. I think that these are those exposed themes that we have dealt with a lot are positive and valid to highlight them here too. Of course, they're not the only ones. In the parliamentary group, we discussed very controversially the conclusions proposed by the Commission to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for adoption, particularly due to some inconsistencies with the report itself. Some conclusions, in particular one, are likely to exceed the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia vis-à-vis the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have therefore re-examined these conclusions in the special working group and proposed appropriate amendments, together with Members of some other groups, but on these amendments, their content and purpose once they are in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. And lastly, this is the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, Secretary of State! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the Commission for Relations with Slovenians, in place and around the world, has made the right decision when it has taken advantage of the business option and has also sent its report on its work in more than half of its mandate to the plenary, to the National Assembly and has equipped it with some conclusions. It seems that some conclusions have already given birth to a reaction, as certain amendments and additions have emerged, which are also complementary to these conclusions, and some are also slightly reduced. As has already been said, at the beginning of this term of reference, there were some minor complications when we considered whether and how to establish this body in the national assembly. At that time, we were likely to make a mistake, or those who were a little complicated here. This is in this symbolic sense, in relation to the Slovenians in place and around the world, one of the very important working bodies of the National Assembly. I am convinced that any future of the State of Slovenia in the European Union and anywhere in any connection, such a body must be established in the National Assembly. It's become an integral part of the National Assembly, and it's the right thing to have it. The new Rules of Procedure have brought another novelty that we probably all don't even know about. We have laid down in business that Slovenian organisations, in place and around the world, can directly, through initiatives and proposals, refer to the Commission and also deal with them. We have therefore opened a direct link between these organisations and only the Commission. This means that the Commission is also particularly burdened and its responsibility is great, as its powers are not so great. When there are direct problems, it also solves them well because it works very closely with the Slovenian government office in place and around the world, with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with the education department, for culture and so on. The individual elements of this report have already been mentioned by colleagues, so I would not like to repeat it. I would like to remind you that we have a constitutional provision, that we have two resolutions, that we have laws, that we have rules of procedure, that we have a commission, that we have a government office, that we have some other government institutions, that we have scientific institutions. All of these are responsible and deal with the situation, life and residence of Slovenians in the place and in the world. And just the fact that the report came to the plenary, and the relatively positive response of all the parliamentary groups, is the recognition of the Commission, the recognition of the President and the incentive for even more up-to-date work, perhaps for even more in-depth work. As I said, that was a good decision. But the fine words, the positive words, of course, do not outweigh the fact that our kinsmen in exchange and our kinsmen in home and eviction live their lives, which are ruthlessly determined by the processes of assimilation. The processes are persistent, they are insurmountable, and, of course, they are the ones we are actually struggling with the most. But we have to fight. Of course, the Slovenian national community, in place of a pulse, moves differently than in eviction and home, especially in eviction. It is therefore right that one of the tasks of the Commission is to maintain regular contact with representatives of Slovenians in place and around the world. To visit them. To visit them in their societies, in their religious centres, in their scientific institutions, in their educational and school institutions, in their media institutions, or to visit their political organisations, their economic structures, cultural, and scientific institutions, we have them. This is not parliamentary tourism if it is done. This is compliance with the provisions of the decision establishing this Commission. Interestingly, recently a very influential and respected Romanian writer, Professor Pahor, said that the mother, the State of Slovenia, was under-responsible and took a strong interest in the future of her indigenous minorities. He said this as a great Slovenian, a great writer, and as someone who experiences from within how this community lives and knows that it touches the process of assimilation. I am firmly convinced that with cultural connections, here I would like to support in particular the amendment written by my colleague Školč as an additional decision on libraries, that we are going to go to a single cultural space and that Slovenian buses bringing the Slovenian book go across Slovenian borders. These boundaries will become secondary in a few months anyway. This is said to be in addition to cultural contacts, school, scientific contacts, not to neglect economic contacts. The first resolution, which was adopted, as has been said four years ago, proposed special bodies to strengthen economic contacts and institutions to strengthen the economic base of Slovenians in substitution, particularly their financial ones. It is important to remember the important role played by the Market Bank. The financial essence of each community is practically crucial. We have therefore also proposed an additional decision or amendment to add particular importance to economic cooperation in this Decision. I hope that one of the amendments voted will not make him disabled and will become irrelevant. Another area is the area of eviction and homelessness. This, in turn, is based on a particularly pervasive attitude of assimilation. It is important to say that, as a country of Slovenia, we, in cooperation with organisations and societies that cover the lives of Slovenians in eviction and home, face a difficult task of dealing with the fact of the so-called generation gap. This is true for generations in Australia, even in Canada, in the United States in part, and especially in South America. Those first generation with great energy, with their ingenuity, built their solidarity with virtually real Slovenian homes, clubs. There they hung out and lived their vocabulary, formed their own culture of relations, which strengthened the sense of belonging to the Slovenes. They played an important role and played religious centers. But this generation has grown weary and then their sons, especially their grandchildren, have not followed the philosophy, the way of life of their parents and their parents. They were already growing up in the spirit of multiculturalism. How, then, can sons and daughters, grandchildren, and grandchildren maintain a respectful attitude toward their roots? This is also a challenge for the Republic of Slovenia, also for our commission. How to Find New Ways? The key element that defines the nation is language. What is the key to learning the Slovenian language? According to old, experienced rails, as well as modern methods, via electronic media, via the Internet. Here it is necessary to highlight and enforce this openness of younger generations living in the mood of multicultural countries and societies, that their great strength and desire to discover their roots, their culture and their language. They are literally looking for connections with their parents. What is the role of exchange of students and students, participation of universities, modern concentrated language courses or perhaps to upgrade language skills, Slovenian language, cultural and artistic creation and vice versa. A very positive experience is the importance of archival material for the Slovenian community in eviction and home. A single arrangement of archival material is important. The importance of Slovenian language lecturers at universities has been highlighted on several occasions on our committee. There is important cooperation between foreign universities and Slovenian universities, not only Ljubljana, but also Maribor and future coastal. And as has already been said, in a particular way it is necessary to give recognition and support the special role played here by the Slovenian religious centres. They play an extremely combining and connecting role. A few concrete views on the position of Slovenian societies in place, especially for some printed media, will be presented by honourable fellow Member Ivan Bozič in the discussion later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Just like you've been reported in the first place, I'll give you my word. First, I invite you to the word of Dr. Joseph Bernick. Please, you have two more minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u138	Madam President! Mr. Secretary of State! I would like to make a few more comments on this report. I think it would be very useful if you found out what's going on with the Slovenian mover department around the world. I don't know exactly when he was created and how many opportunities he had to organize himself and how they stopped the work. We also know nothing about the government's professional world, although it has no decisive functions, but it only prepares technical matters. Thirdly, he was supposed to mention what I have already mentioned several times, and others mentioned when we appealed to the Ministry of Education years ago to maybe organise one system, how to help or maybe give a small scholarship or anything to teachers and teachers of Slovenian education in Australia, Canada, the United States of America and Argentina. Some of these have been teaching for many years. One, say, for 50 years, and so far they have never been rewarded with any financial assistance. I don't know why this should be different than for teachers and teachers across Europe. I am pleased with every journalist who notices our work and concern for Slovenian expatriates, although in particular he sees travel, costs, increased aid to some of the rare Slovenians and Slovenes and so on. Well, every journalist has his limitations and lack of a clear view, but we must be happy to see anything in this area at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I quit. If necessary, when it comes to amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you don't want to. Mr. Kacin's not here. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The debate on Slovenians in place and around the world needs to be discussed, for we Slovenians are one and the same. It is true that we have been separated for many years by national borders and that national borders have been established by politicians and not by people just like that. I am coming, and I have often said this, from the western edge of Slovenian national space and I do not care that in the Channel Valley, Resija and Venice against Gorica, Slovenians live quite a separate life for so many years and we, politicians, are only getting a bit carried away with them. The Channel Valley has no more elementary school in Slovenian language or preschool education since 1918. Venice is only a few years old [[all of Venice]] First the private primary Slovenian school in Venice and now the Slovenian state school in Špetr, Rezija nothing. It's really bad. In this room there were many things done and many - what some speakers have already stressed before me - have also been done by priests in this area. In Venice, in Chad, there was a newspaper published by Dom, and the newspaper was also called Dom. And this paper stopped coming out last year. He began in 1965 and stopped dating after 37 years. I would like to read to those of you who are interested in how Slovenians live in the neighbourhood and in the world, a short introduction to the new home number, which came out this year for the big night, says on Sunday, April 20th: "Last autumn, I had a difficult heart separated from Kobariška after 30 years. I had to leave this mountain paradise, leave people who would not be able to be blindly satisfied with a single priest for four priests, leave the brothers of Venice and the neighbors of Furlana, leave cooperation with the House because it stopped dating exactly a year ago. I don't think it's necessary to prove to the Venetian brothers the enormous importance of this letter after more than 35 years of dating, in difficult circumstances. However, I think that it is necessary to remind everyone of the great role played by the House in these years even in the immediate home country of Slovenia. I must remind you of the great credits that Dom had at more than 70 meetings between the Benečans and Furlani in Kobarid, in more than 20 years of joint novels on Stara Gora, Viškorsa and other places, in three books that documented a great deal of cooperation among the border nations, on the book Slovenians and Furlani in Furlania, published in Cedado in 1991, on the book On the Ways of André from Loka, published in Špetr in 1992, and on the book Eight Centuries of Bulls, Pope Celestina III, published in Cedado in 1993. And as I was leaving Kobarid, I had the impression that all this work had been thrown aside, and that all of it had been buried, despite the requests and prospects of the people who would be obliged to continue on this path. I've already given up my fate and shared my grief with other friends of the House, but look, there's been a miracle. These very days, I was delighted to hear that Dom will rise from the dead for this great night. I cannot tell you what joy it has taken on this news that there has been a path to understanding and to further closer cooperation," he quoted. In this I would like to remind those who do not know, and I have only taught myself about it, and in 1192 Pope Celestin III gave to the Chedya capital some Slovenian villages near Cedada in Slovenia and to Soča. That is why we know the Slovenian names of these villages in 1192. So much for the house. I'd like to point out one more thing. When I said earlier that priests had done much in this area. Almost five years ago, Božo Zvanela and Mario Koalaica published a book, The Dark Years in Venice. In Slovenian it was published by Cankar's label. For almost five years, the descendants of fascist generals sued these two authors. Last spring, when they were forgiven, I'm sorry, you just had to apologize to the relatives of these generals so that they didn't have any intention of offending them in the book, there weren't many of us in Pordenon, only 5 civilians and over 30 priests. There was no one from our government. Why did I say all that? I said because I would like the Ministry of the Interior or the Slovenian Office in place and around the world never to allow any Slovenian newspapers to be produced in place, especially because I know this because I have been to a meeting of the Committee on Slovenians in place and around the world several times because the money of the Republic of Slovenia's budget has also been for this purpose. That's not good at all. I want to say one more thing about the amendments that are proposed. Above all, I need all of you sitting here today in the Chamber, as well as those who are listening, and those who will be able to read the magnetograms, to very much support the amendment as the seventh decision to be adopted today and written by Mr. Jožef Školč: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministry to carry out the outstanding tasks of the law on ensuring the visibility and soundness of the RTV Slovenia programme and the local non-commercial programmes in areas where the Slovenian national minority lives. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I've asked myself here a few times why we're adopting laws, why they're not being implemented. For the last time, I wondered why the law banning the production and sale of asbestos products was not implemented, so that people would wait for compensation after two years and die in the meantime and their number would just fall. The visibility of the Slovenians in Venice, we have provided it with conclusions in this National Assembly in law and in the budget. Here in the hall there was a mountain shaking, not even an electronic mouse being born. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we consider the report of the Commission on Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Around the World, I must also express my satisfaction that the Commission, after great pain, after great efforts, even after the great opposition of the ruling coalition, or at least the work of the ruling coalition, was established at the outset and that it is well-managed and well-managed. I think it is very important that the members of the commission work unitedly to carry some national pride between Slovenians in the place and around the world to influence the hope among our relatives, that they are here in the Slovenian Parliament, where the central city of the state of Slovenia, where central events are supposed to take place, take the central conclusions and the most important conclusions that come from here Members, symbolic messages and also actual visits to Slovenians, if they live across the sea or in the place. The Commission has certainly done a great deal of work, and there is still much work to be done. The Commission must be persistently loud here across from the Slovenian government, because in my opinion the government should be encouraged to enforce and work hard enough to pressure the world public through its mechanisms, let us say that the law on global protection of the Slovenians in Italy is finally being implemented. We know that we have waited for him for 40 years, and yet we hope that we will not wait for the next 40 years to begin, or for so long, that the Republic of Italy will not implement him until the last Slovenian is assimilated; then such a law was not necessary. Also, the Commission and all of us Members must press before the Slovenian public about what my colleague Bozič said before me - about the fact that those laws that we have adopted in favour of Slovenians living outside the Slovenian state after the great tribulation in this House, the law on the hearing and visibility of Slovenian programmes in the place, at our western border. The fact that the Slovenian government does not implement this law and that it has not implemented the budget items that we once had in the budget is, in fact, a claim for Slovenian national death beyond the state border. The Slovenian government must be aware of its responsibilities to some of the limbs of the Slovenian national body. It's a national disgrace! I am in favour of the proposal for a decision by my colleague, Školč, but it is a shame that government Members must warn their ministers and their government. And that we do not find or realize those "fictions" that are necessary for this; that we note this in the year when catastrophic frauds with budgetary money are detected! Billions in SIB, billions for prizes in Elan, millions of stamps for prizes at Maribor Car Factory - for prizes! - The Post Office and so on! And in a situation like this, the Slovenian government can't find money for law enforcement! It is also a major action by the Commission to trigger the adoption of a resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world. I myself have been actively involved in the debate on this resolution and my amendment on repatriation has also been adopted - that the Republic of Slovenia will allow Slovenians living in countries where the political or economic crisis is severe to return to their homeland. Today we heard that some Slovenian families have returned. However, given that we have recently learned about the census results and that the Slovenian population is only increasing at the expense of immigrants, I think that we are all aware of the importance of enabling Slovenian compatriots living in countries with a severe economic crisis, as well as elsewhere, to encourage them to return to Slovenia's blood where it comes from. Because these people are coming behind the nose, most of these people are not infected with the diseases that have actually caused a long-standing non-democratic system for us who have lived here. These people are the ferment of the Slovenian national body. Usually, as I can see, there are even large families, which is also extremely important. I think it's done here, not by the commission, but by the state. The natural increase in Slovenia and the matrix does not guarantee the preservation of the Slovenian population. For this reason, if we develop normally, it is one of the hopes that we will somehow maintain some balance with the neighbouring nations. Let me say one more thing about these, sometimes so-stricken visits to the Slovenian Commission in place and around the world. In my opinion, the Commission is also doing important and great work. Everywhere I have been - although I am not on this committee - but I have been in a number of delegations in some countries where we have also met in the framework of the Committee on Foreign Affairs with the living Slovenians, and I have heard remarkable words of appreciation everywhere about these visits, about the mission of these visits. I must say that in this mandate, even before that, the Commission has made an important contribution to reducing ideological and political differences between our fellow citizens in place and around the world. We know that this is a big flaw or a big bad side, that the Slovenians have long failed to act politically in important matters. We are aware of the historical impulses that such a situation has taken place. Here the Slovenian Parliament, this commission must continuously improve the situation between Slovenians in place and around the world. If we send signals and symbolic messages from this Parliament that Slovenians in their home countries, where they live, can only achieve something with unity in their demands and that they will have Slovenian support in their single matters, then we send the right messages. And here, the commission does a lot of work. I do not think that in one of her visits she looked at Slovenian political parties in place or around the world with visual aspects, that the members of the commission deliberately impressed on the side of their visual definition when they visited, including political definitions, and that they encouraged Slovenians, Slovenian compatriots in place and around the world, to their unity; although of course it is normal for Slovenians to participate abroad in various political parties. However, when they represent us - the protection of the Slovenian minority is, of course, also normally expected on our part to perform uniformly, let this be in Koroška, where the Slovenian minority is faced with severe pressure. I hope that, in the area of policy, we will not take any further steps towards the Slovenians in place and around the world, not at the parliamentary level or at the state level, even though these attempts are. Attempts to terminate the office at the Ministry and attempts that have already been made to avoid this commission. I recall the beginning of the mandate when many mentioned that it did not actually justify its mandate and that it could be done by another commission. These steps back are unacceptable. Slovenians around the world were the best ambassadors and the best lobbyists of the future Slovenian country when our country was established. Without Slovenians around the world, it would probably be very difficult to recognise the independent Slovenian state. And it is a moral and political debt, as well as a commitment of Slovenian blood, to maintain good contacts and to encourage Slovenian living in place and around the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Kavticnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we are talking today about the success of the Commission's work, but these achievements are still related to good cooperation with the government. For without good cooperation with the Slovenian office in place and around the world, the Commission could not have such good and genuine relations with Slovenians living outside Slovenia. However, let me remind you that we Slovenians have gone, that in our historical memory we have beautiful and even less beautiful events. One of the most beautiful events is that after several centuries of efforts, Slovenians have first received their country, where we can decide for ourselves what we will do and what we will do with the orchards of our work. But to remind you of less beautiful events, we've been under foreigners for hundreds of years. Therefore, it is not the case that Slovenians migrated around the world for various reasons. And that is why it is not the case that many Slovenians are talking about a few hundred thousand, that is, 500,000 Slovenians who live outside Slovenia, who, although they have lived outside Slovenia for so long, have maintained their culture, their language and tradition. And today, when Slovenians have their country, when we can have the goods we create ourselves, it is right for these people, those who express themselves for the Slovenes and who bear Slovenian blood and who carry the Slovenian culture within them and want to preserve this culture and want to carry the language from generation to generation, it is right to help them. And I'm glad the Slovenians have that kind of attention for these people. That is why I am especially proud to be a member of this commission. I am also pleased that we have so much hearing in the National Assembly that we have set up this commission, a commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, and I am sure that we will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Sponik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. In short, I would like to define myself as a Member or touch on the subject, which is also recorded in one of our conclusions and is an integral part of the resolution on relations with Slovenians around the world - this is repatriation. Repatriation is the result of one of those less beautiful events that respected colleague Kavtičnik was just talking about. In this resolution, we have written that the Republic of Slovenia is interested in returning Slovenians to Slovenia and also in the settlement of their descendants. It pays particular attention to those who can contribute to the development of Slovenia. And we wrote down, to Slovenians around the world who live in countries where there is a severe political or economic crisis, the Republic of Slovenia allows them to return to their homeland. The question of repatriation is, in my personal opinion, one of the very important issues concerning the very essence of one of Slovenia's national interests. Years ago, the new magazine published a handbook on the future of Slovenia as a country and asked what is the meaning of Slovenia's country and Slovenia after we reached its existence, its independence, and especially after we entered the European Union. So what is the point of the Slovenian state? Above all, this, giving its framework to the Slovenian people, of course, lives together behind indigenous minorities in Slovenia, as well as members of other peoples who have Slovenian citizenship and are Slovenian citizens. But repatriation, the return of Slovenians and their descendants to Slovenia, I firmly believe, is one of the very important strategic decisions of Slovenian politics. There will be a need for generosity, human solidarity and openness. The government is in its work. [[I think it was written by the former Secretary of State Dr. Simoniti.]] I wrote very directly about this issue. We had previously boasted that some had returned, but for now, only about 200 had returned from this information. So 200 people of Slovenian origin moved to Slovenia; I would say that much too little. The question arises which measures are needed to increase this number, not least in the face of worrying demographic trends in Slovenia. What must be done to increase this number? Rafael's company, which has already been mentioned, was the first to be programmed to address this issue. Later, after the creation and creation of a independent Slovenian state, I believe this is also one of the main tasks of the Slovenian state. At the request of the Slovenian Office for Slovenians, a foreign immigration department was established within the office. And this section has its own professional council, which is very wide, which contains a number of names, covers a number of areas, from housing, school, economic, that is, the employment department, the role of the congregations is important. It is very important how those who come to Slovenia solve their social problems, how they connect with social work centres and so on. That is why I would also like to get an answer later, because I have seen that, my fellow Members, you have proposed an amendment to the decision proposed by the Commission, and it reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare appropriate measures to support the easier return of Slovenians to their homeland," and here you propose a dot. The Commission goes on to say: "...mostly from countries where there is a severe political and economic crisis, and from those Slovenians who could contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Slovenia." Both syntagmas, both dictatorships are copied from the resolution and it is unusual that we do not follow the resolution we have adopted in our decision. On the other hand, if your amendment had been adopted, of course it would have become an amendment, as we proposed when we proposed a basic decision to continue this decision," in national immigration or repatriation policy, the return of young families should be particularly possible. "In our view, it would be a shame if the National Assembly did not adopt such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Puksic to the floor. He doesn't want to. Mr. Komljanec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I have read this report carefully, and I have listened to most of the performers, and I would say that a carefully prepared report may be too detailed in some details, but perhaps too little critical. However, I did not think critically wrong, but rather how to improve certain things, given that the Slovenians are everywhere, perhaps I see little effort to take care of the Slovenians in our place, those who live in a single cultural space and even in the same geographical space. I think that we also have a few proposals to improve this and, above all, I would like most of these proposals to come true, both through the government service that is for this, through the societies we have in Slovenia, of course, even through this commission, which is trying to do even more than it can be done. I've already been to some of our natives in America, Canada, even Australia with some cultural group, and I know that every kind word, word, something new, and homely joy. Therefore, in view of many proposals, I myself fear that there are so many that it will be difficult to make them all come true, perhaps not at once, but gradually, but I would still like to have one thought here, what, when and how, that what I was talking about could actually be done. Otherwise, I support these efforts with this desire that there might be a second time a little more criticism of my work in this sense in order to achieve better content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Onion has the floor. He's not here. Mayo Shirco, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I think there is a general rule that applies to most of the reports submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. Their common denominator is a fairly written, factual approach, i.e. a series of facts that do not always elicit essential visions or systemic solutions. While this report differs, it is quite detailed. He already has pre-moral support. It is certainly not for a number of activities that are inherent in the commission's work cycle, in other words, although at the time of accurate reading of the report there is also a surplus, at least if we are reading in detail those decisions which the Commission has adopted during its work with a very vehement swing. I understand that some of these conclusions are also the result of numerous visits by commissions abroad, by stressing that I do not object to such practices in contrast to others. The question is whether a commission in certain places can even suggest or determine which institution needs or even how much it needs - say - funds for its operation. If we refer to the way in which they subsidise and seek assistance from foreign and emigrant organisations, we know that the needs are determined by means of proposals based on calls and proposals from expert commissions - if I speak for at least one ministry, which provides quite a few subsidies for action in the field of culture. In short, in the form of public calls and in the manner in which expert committees are identified, not in the way of hearing proposals from different Commission proposals. For example, if I summarize both the magnetograms of the session itself and some conclusions where the Commission proposes a certain number of resources for specific tasks, which, by the way, if we take the government's response to these conclusions of the initiative for such subsidies, have not come from the institutions themselves abroad. I'm talking about the case of Rogerman's home. However, I would point to the second part of the report, which is an annex transmitted by the Government at the initiative of the Commission itself. Upon reading the Government's reply to a number of Commission conclusions, the attentive reader may find that it is often not possible to inform the Commission as well as what the work of the Office, in particular the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, and also what measures the government takes in this area. This type- certainly lacks - the flow of information between Gregorčičev and Šubičev may even botruise any premature decision or over-vehement decision based on, I think, after reading this report, the assumption that there is a lack of accurate knowledge in certain cases of certain legal measures, frameworks. For example, if I refer to the Law on Administrative Fees, on Citizenship, on Higher Education, on Realising Public Interest in Culture, or which is even based on the misunderstanding and non-information of the work of the office itself, which - let's say, as I read his report and believe it - is already preparing proposals for the Slovenian Act around the world, where we read that the procedures have already taken place, etc., and we have here proposals by the commission itself that this should happen. In short, two different information that I suppose comes from the fact that both sources or bodies are sometimes not well informed. However, if I go to the conclusions proposed by the Commission in today's report, let me mention or draw attention to Decision No 3, which states that the Government should prepare appropriate measures to support the easier return of Slovenians to their homeland, and point out or that the advantage to those - of course, I have read the decision myself - may have been different in mind, but - which should give priority to those who could contribute to the overall development of the Republic of Slovenia. It is certainly appropriate to draw attention to an unequal approach to emigrants in this Decision; in short, it should be understood that those who would be more useful to us should have priority in returning from those who would not be natives or evicts who would not be able to contribute sufficiently to Slovenia's overall development. I'm sure the proponents will explain to me that it's also worth reading differently, and I'm sure that's how my reading is. I would also like to comment on the decision to supplement the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries in the light of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. This decision certainly brings about an urgent thought that we may not have devoted enough to him so far. Perhaps there is even some kind of "trap", let me say in the notes, which in a free Europe may worsen the status of foreign Slovenians. In principle, the fall of the border is supposed to bring free flow, but as paradoxically as it may sound, the fall can also bring drowning, not to say, delete the differences that define the minority and, of course, preserve the non-ethnic countries in it. We have not yet devoted ourselves to these dimensions and it is right to think about them within this conclusion, as formulated. The fourth decision of the Commission, the preliminary conclusion, appeals to the current reformers of the state administration, who are changing the status of government offices. In this discussion - you will all remember it well - we were involved in the adoption of the law on state administration. Not once, it has been asked several times by the Government or the Ministry of the Interior to present a scenario and vision of the transformation of key government and other services in the composition of ministries or to present their changes. They gave us no answers, except for the generalisation of rationalisation and defacing of government offices. This includes the Office for Slovenians around the world, which is similar to the other offices of inter-resort, certainly inter-resort, inter-ministerial body in which various ministries and their services are projected. Whether it can maintain autonomy in today's sense of the office's functioning after the body's composition is a question to be answered when the law is passed - once; harder or impossible - today. In doing so, I would point out the last amendment - that I will not be included - to the last amendment signed by the proposaler Jožef Školč, whom I also welcome, by noting that the law on ensuring the visibility and soundness of RTV Slovenia programmes, as proposed in the previous National Assembly, Member of Hvalić, is in fact ordering the fulfilment of the widespread visibility and visibility in areas where the Slovenian national minority, the public institution of RTV Slovenia, lives. In its modest eight articles, the share of the public institution RTV Slovenia clearly identifies where and how it must define the framework for the establishment of the technical infrastructure, where it provides the resources and the government is provided in Article 7 to support the financing. So it would be possible to define this amendment slightly differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u154	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. I take this report as an opportunity, in particular, that the National Assembly also discusses the situation of relatives living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. I have to say in black, unlike most people, that I do not share their conviction that in this case it is a perfect material that gives insight into the work of the Slovenian community either in Italy, Austria and Hungary or anywhere in the world, and that if we are talking about this report, it is important to say that the worrying level of such a document is when we look at the structure, when we look at the content and when we look at the individual conclusions, it is also worrying about the language side. I would like myself to say that people who take the right to teach everyone in the country how important it is to care for the Slovenians who support it, I will say, this culture is also beyond our borders and the language outside our borders, that perhaps the little things are more carefully looked out for written and also said in this assembly, as is usually the case with other subjects. This does not mean that the level of other subjects is such that they can be satisfied with it. We are hardly talking about a truly integrated report, which would be a report in terms of what the Commission is competent to do. If I give a parallel, it is rather a series of some invoices, partial records, summaries of these minutes, but not really a document that could and on the basis of which we could get a significantly greater view of the position of Slovenia outside our borders. Discussions are also interesting. I myself shuddered at some important thought of my colleague Spokonik, who shed tears behind the loss of this economic infrastructure as some basis for someone, let's say, a more daring life of a minority. But I would like to say that the Slovenian policy, and also that part of the policy that it belongs to both in the belief and, at some point, I will say, in relation to kinship, has greatly helped - as the foreigners themselves say - to dismantle this economic infrastructure both in terms of the financial institution and all those which were also dependent on these financial institutions in some way. I would like to take these tears for the loss of this infrastructure as well as what has been said here: the recognition of certain errors that have been made in the past by the visa of this community. And what I was going to say is that these mistakes were not only made in 1990, but they were made after 1990. That is why I would like to believe all those who say that this Commission has made a significant move at this time and that because of this Commission, there is, in fact, a blessed understanding among the divided Slovenians in the world. I wish it was, but I don't believe it. Of course, unlike whom, I don't expect that, because it seems to me that there is some wealth that we can afford, even in that people maintain their ideological, religious and cultural differences abroad, that they don't need to be forced into what many people are trying to forget about other appointments and other elements of their own, I will say, identities. So I ask myself, and I don't have to say here whether all this smugness is related to the work of this commission, even related to the fact that maybe someone has a bad conscience before questioning the public about the meaning of these great and long journeys, which, as we have heard, have a soothing effect. I would ask myself if certain things could also be learned from the records of the committees of the previous reference and from the previous reference. Of course, there is also, for curious, many literature, which is very quality and thorough, which talks about the problems of assimilation, which discusses the problems of the second and third generation of emigrants who talk about the problems of the legal regulation of these things. Here it would be interesting to see if we had what was done elsewhere, how many members of the commission borrowed this literature about these things. Because in the things they tell, I also see a lot of basic and ideal ignorance, and it saddens me. But today, more than all these things may be relevant to this debate, the conclusions they have put forward are more important than this report and more than that impression we want to make. However, if we analyze the conclusions, then we can see that these conclusions, in fact, in the majority, including that there will be no misunderstanding with those two I propose, summarise things that the National Assembly has already decided in some way. Maybe it's new in a few details. One is that this resolution must also be looked at through the optics of our future position in a year. Another such novelty is Mr Sponik's proposal to extend the content that speaks of the return of the Slovenians - in addition to the two criteria that have already been adopted - to the third. If the government is really making a program of action, then I think it's his wish and his proposal on the spot. And perhaps it may be new that we are trying, within the framework of a cultural policy, which we normally refer to as a policy that touches our carefully protected kindergarten, to drive these networks, which are luxurious and rich, to work for the benefit of the national community in place. The proposal, which I have put forward to the vision of the sound and visibility of radio and television programmes, is a proposal which has been reached several times in this assembly and which has been ignored several times. But I still think it makes sense for the National Assembly to say that electronic media are the key to maintaining language and culture. This is clear to all; those who demand the day-to-day transposition of meetings of the National Assembly, such as those dealing with, say, the Americanisation of culture and language. I would therefore like to see him, regardless of the fact that it has already been decided to support him, because the law that I quote is the law that has set out to achieve the objectives of the law. The key objectives of the law should be achieved by 2002, which is why this decision makes sense. Speaking of this library loan, I must say that for many years it has been true that both the library in Trieste and in Celovac has practically the same accessible copies of this literature as all our central libraries. And that's good. But Trieste and Celovec are for a lot of people, I will say, as far as anyone in Slovenia Ljubljana. And from this point of view, I would also like you to support this decision, which allows you to eventually in Venice, which everyone really likes and, I'll say, with tears in your eyes, we're talking about the possibility that there, say, the Tolmin Library, which is a professionally qualified bibliobus that would be a bibliobus that would cover these valleys. To strengthen the position of the Murskohoba library, which does something similar in Use; to consider what can be covered from Koroška and is easier to reach than in Celovac. And that seems to me to be something worth considering, perhaps as an initial investment costs less than the smallness of the more difficult path of this commission - and I end up in a way that, if the budget runs out, Mr Pukšič will consider and reduce these research paths in favour of these Slovenian projects in exchange. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik has a replica of the implementation of Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you, Vice President. A brief replica to my colleague Školč, who mentioned my name in his debate and also interpreted my statement on the importance of economic cooperation and support for the economic and financial institutions of Slovenians after their replacement. On the other hand, we have supported each other's amendments that we have proposed, and in some ways here we have blown this relationship apart, but to say that I, personally or in the circle that I belong to, am responsible for the dismantling of financial institutions and those that were dependent on these institutions, which is an accusation that is criminal to me. If that's true, then you have to exclude me from this commission. When did I do that? Where did I do it? What circle? I know that colleague Skolcz used to have a sense of humor, but sometimes he provokes, but this time he goes over the edge and over the right attitude towards Members. When I, acting as President of the National Assembly, as a Member, dismantled the financial institutions of the Slovenians in exchange, and those who were dependent on these institutions - when and where! Please, fellow schoolboy, forgive me for this negligence you've done to me!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Although the replica is not allowed, since I estimate that there has actually been a misunderstanding, I give you my word for the replica on the replica, Mr Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u158	I would like to say that Mr Sponik Janez will be able to read the magnetogram and will see that I did not apostrophe him, but his; and with this explanation I am explaining this. If more is needed, then we should remember the discussions on the TKB, the SAFTI and other things, and the roles played by the various parties and individuals in these parties - and for this there are also records in this national assembly - and not by Mr Janez Podobnik, but by his.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u159	This can be a procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik. The Rules of Procedure are clear. I apologize. [[...]] We know exactly what the rules of procedure are. It's about clarifying the misunderstanding, so you had your word. I apologize, but Mr Školč used the replica, and this is where the controversy ends in our rules of procedure. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, I must say that in the debates concerning the state of Slovenia's relationship with the Slovenians either in place or elsewhere in the world, it is always detectable full of high-flying words and pretty words and it seems as if we all want to gather our fellow citizens outside our country in every way. There may also be some overcalculability and some sort of calculation regarding political combinations, but I wouldn't be running into these speculations right now. The fact is that, over and over again in these debates, we find that at least the relative share of funds earmarked for our relatives abroad is lower in the budget and that it is already very far from that of the late 1980s when this percentage was the highest in the budget. We always take some, I would say, so on the eye of very beautiful conclusions; I think these conclusions are also very beautiful. I will, of course, support the amendments or corrections tabled by the Group of Members due to editorial integrity. I will also support both of Mr Školč's conclusions. However, I fear that the problems on the table for at least six years, since I have been more intensive in monitoring this issue of Parliamentary eyes, will remain more or less the same. The iron repertoire of problems in the substitute has long been known. What is in line with the fourth chapter of the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities outside the borders, the visibility and visibility of TV programmes, the backlog in the payment of regular and already foreseen financial resources either on the Slovenian side or in the home country where Slovenians also acquire funds. Well, there are also new ones, as is now the case with the Slovenian radio in Koroška. Of course I don't want to say that there wasn't much to be done at the time. On the contrary! I think it's done quite a bit. But in some concrete areas, I would say, things are just going too slowly. The problem of obtaining citizenship, ensuring the exercise of electoral rights, and so on and so forth, is always coming back. I think that even with some, I would say, more measured conclusions and acts, resolutions or laws of this national assembly, which would be even more realistic in some way, and which would be easier to implement, have a slightly better effect. These conclusions go in this direction, as many others have already done - either the Commission, the National Assembly or other acts. I would like to point out some unfortunate experiments, which are also related to these conclusions, which are worth recalling so that when we meet again here at this point, we will not wonder why some things are not realized. However, we recall the law on the provision of visibility and visibility that has been adopted and which should have already been implemented. When this law was adopted, it was clearly warned that the law could not be fully implemented. I do not claim in part; of course something could be done. First of all, this could be done by the national television system, which is ultimately in charge of this, or this, of course, with the help of the government. However, something in this area simply cannot be done only by the government or national television, because it is simply technical problems that are also connected, I will say, in some kind of sovereignty and it is not possible that all Slovenes in turn will receive the signal as they receive Slovenian citizens here in Slovenia - unless we want to get it via satellite, through transmitters it is no longer possible. It is therefore worth being evaluated when adopting such decisions and acts by the National Assembly. The Slovenians will benefit more from this without having a false hope from which they have nothing but high expectations and great disappointment. Rather, let us say what is really possible to do, and let us actually realize that. We can also remember the law, which is possible even in the procedure, I do not know, I did not check the status of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship, which was one of many written, taken over by some Members, all in the light of the fact that as much as possible could be done for Slovenians outside Slovenia. When this law began to be dissected, of course, it was found that some things that had already been promised in some way would simply not hold back. However, one may reach even the opposite effect and objective. Therefore, I would like to ask that, irrespective of my support for these conclusions, as I have said with the amendments, we are being measured and more serious. Of this, Slovenians will certainly benefit more than writing them high-end and beautiful conclusions that we do not want or even can't realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Ašić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. So when I called on behalf of the Group of Members, I tried to synthesize these different views on the work of our Commission and I think I somehow hit the whole and the atmosphere in the Group of Members. Of course, personally, as a member of this same commission, I think that sometimes some critical subtons are justified, but often not. And that it is often a matter of not knowing the area we are dealing with, whether consciously or knowingly, because some colleagues or colleagues do not participate to that extent in this area. Of course, you could end up where Mr Davorin Terchón has finished, in the conclusions we will take. The fact is that it is always so that the conclusions are realized to the extent that there is a material basis, if any, for the collection of funds, and to the extent that it is willing to implement these conclusions. In any case, the proposals are well-intentioned and in order to be implemented. They are being implemented by some others, and our Commission also refers to these requests, requests, initiatives and so on. One of the tasks and objectives of the Commission when it was established and also of the following: "the Commission shall maintain regular contact with representatives of Slovenians in place and around the world." If we knew that, then perhaps there would be some dilemma as to whether the roads were justified or not, too. In terms of costs, it would be necessary to discuss the costs of all international activities and of all the routes of the national assembly and not just those of the Commission. I think that's the only way to correct this approach. True, it is right that we read literature and old notes as much as possible by the members of the commission, but it is not the same thing to read Partjič’s drama or to look at it on stage. And that is what we often miss or what we gain when we go abroad. On my last visit, I was extremely happy and proud of my colleague, Marica Pozsonec, who told the Austrian Parliament about Slovenia's concern for the Hungarian minority in Slovenia. In this way, she said how right it would be to have the same level of relations as we have in a neighbouring country with their minorities. I can safely say that Slovenia has a much better approach for its minorities and for minorities outside its borders than for many countries. This is not only the result of this commission, this is the result, as I have already said, of the entire Slovenian policy, of our constitution. As a result, of course, we can be critical in those parts when we assess that it could be even better, but we must not be too critical of what we have achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. If I would also like to have a word with the proposer, there is a chance, please, Mr Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to respond to some of the concerns of some. Before doing so, however, I would like to thank all the members working on the committee, all the representatives of the government, the office, all the three state secretaries with all the professional colleagues, especially the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture, and less the Ministry of the Economy, in the first part of the presentation of the report. Indeed, these two, together with the Office - because the Ministry of the Interior is extremely well co-operated and co-creates the preparation of the conclusions and preparation of the meeting itself and, of course, co-sponsors the substantive debate in the consideration of reports or in the consideration of laws or other documents that we consider to be an interested working body. This means - Mrs Majdi Shirci - far from not knowing here one or the other institution, what is the task of which. It is true, however, that you have changed a little or not read certain things carefully enough. It is not the Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that prepares the Slovenians law that live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, but the Commission has assigned itself this task and the Commission is doing so. It is true, however, that there is a professional support from the office, which, of course, also helps by other ministries, some, as I said, and some less. This decision, in fact, by this first decision, which is proposed, actually gives political support to this work, which in fact the Commission has been working for a good half a year or so since the resolution adopted in January last year. As far as decision number 3 is concerned, it is not meant as a discriminator to conclude that some would be considered more, for others to be less, but the emphasis is on young people, those who, of course, can also help with the general development of the Republic of Slovenia, having sufficient information on employment opportunities, on other options, on the possibilities of nostration of diplomas and so on and so on. In short, things will change and improve in this area as well. Very concretely, when you mentioned that somehow the commission goes over - it doesn't go over its jurisdiction and give someone some tasks, no! But help, shelter at Rozman's home in Argentina. You know, when you're there specifically when you see these particular problems and when you see that the people are living with about 15,000 Slovenian tolars in this house or there are so many of their pensions, the rest are taken care of by Slovenians and Slovenians with their charitable actions and, if you want, some Slovenians with regular monthly grants that these people who unfortunately came through in life as they are, and have no other chance of surviving the rest of their lives. Then very concretely - very concretely, and of course this was not a proposal from one of the members, but therefore from all of us - you suggest that at least in this form this aid should be given. Or when you get a letter from the people who are preparing the students' travel of the last year of the high school course, from Director Mark Bayuk to Slovenia, where they will be for a month, and when they write by name and surname that this one and this one does not have for a plane ticket that costs $1,000, and for the others it is possible to take care of or take care of themselves, then these are specific things that we also discuss with the office, exchange information and suggest. I thank you, Mrs Majda, for your comments, and I believe that they were really good intentions, and so I have accepted them, and I will also think in future when preparing and proposing conclusions when we deal with them. Certainly, at least some of Mr Školč's comments were less well-intentioned when he spoke of not believing - this is his right - that the relationship between Slovenians around the world has now become blessed because of our commission. However, these differences that we have not created that are created in the world are trying to ease; even by talking to someone who still expects to receive funds for the rehabilitation of the bowling alley, someone expects him to receive funds to obtain a book, a notebook, or literature for education. However, these are, of course, essential diametric differences and contradictions - between someone who has received funds to build a bowling alley and others who have not received a tolar for 50 years, he also retained the fourth generation Slovenian language, the culture of the phrase. That this is so, and that these visits are important and necessary, they also speak, as I have already mentioned, of the dispatches sent by the embassies after our visits. For example, from Argentina, it said: "The Embassy considers the visit to be very useful, since the Commission with access at several levels at the Argentine official circles and with the Slovenians in Argentina can get quite a look at the state and community. From a political point of view, the visit was promoted for Slovenia," Madam Vice-President, do I have another word? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u165	Please, for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u166	"at the same time, it allowed for an exchange of views on matters of common interest, in particular on bilateral issues between countries..." [[...]] And so on. In short, there's a lot of these findings. Why the Commission also decided to call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, to preserve the autonomy and current competence of the Office. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1996 we adopted a resolution in this Parliament or you adopted it - because it was before the next mandate - some adopted the resolution in IV. The section speaks of the appointment of a Minister without a Charter proposing a policy of cooperation with Slovenian autonomous minorities in place and responsible for its implementation and coordination of the activities of the competent ministries in this area. Never adopted a resolution, you were also Minister, Mr Školč, this resolution has not been implemented. You were Minister of the Drnovškova Government when this resolution was adopted and later - of course, this resolution is still in force today - but it has not been implemented. That is why it does not seem right for the government to change this status even to a lower level than the office is now. I certainly agree, but the Commission has not yet proposed these two conclusions, as proposed by Mr Školč - yes, I will support this decision myself. However, these decisions, which have already been adopted, are a decision drawn from the law on visibility and soundness. The government in which you were, Mr Školč, did not implement these conclusions. That is why, of course, I think, the Commission's warning that this is not a reality, somewhat in a different context than it should have been. I agree with Mr Tarchoon when he said that it is better to adopt more realistic conclusions; those that can be realised. This, of course, also means such legislation, which can be implemented, but not by law, so that we have it, we wave it, but it cannot be realized. Elections to the National Assembly, the election of the President of the Republic are two such laws that cannot be implemented worldwide. This has now been proven several times, and I therefore expect that changes will take place in this area as well, and that when the Slovenians who live outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia are adopted, the Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship chapter will be so real and so realistic that it can be realized. With regard to the other amendments that have been tabled on the proposed conclusions, I will speak on the basis of the amendments. Indeed, I cannot speak as a motioner, because we have not had the opportunity to discuss this on a committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I conclude the general debate on the report. As you can see from the agenda presented, at 6.15 a.m., we are scheduled to proceed to the vote on today's decisions. As you have seen, in the course of a one-phase process, we received the report all afternoon at the click of each amendment to the individual points of the proposed conclusions of the Commission. The Rules of Procedure also provide for a debate on individual amendments, of course in the context of the time notified by the parliamentary groups, but take into account the fact that, in the course of the single phase procedure of the parliamentary group, they do not know how many amendments will be prepared and that in this case the amendments prepared are almost every decision, I will, as President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, propose that the National Assembly itself decide that it is time to consider this point, but only for the discussion of the proposed amendments to the decisions you have in the review of the amendments tabled. The time that can be spent is up to one hour, however, which has already been defined by the amendments, so I can estimate that 30 minutes is fully enough time to discuss the conclusions and amendments that you have received today on the bench. This will, of course, be decided by the National Assembly, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, so I ask Members and Members to come to the Chamber to vote on the procedural decision to extend the debate on the Commission's decisions and the amendments tabled by 30 minutes. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. It's 36 votes against 15. [[36 votes against.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposal to extend this agenda item has been adopted by 30 minutes. I hope that we will be rational in the debates, for about 4 minutes in fact, the debate should be at each proposal for a decision, in view of the time voted on by us to extend this point, so that I really ask everyone who will apply to the debate to see that you are trying to give your explanation in one minute, otherwise in 30 minutes we will not be able to discuss all the amendments to the proposals for conclusions. I am putting to the debate the first decision and the amendment to this decision, which is proposed by a group of Members, with the first-signed Jožet Ašić. I'm opening a debate, who wants to discuss it? No one, I close, close the debate and open the debate on the second decision and amendment, which is proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I'm opening the debate, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group suggests that in a second decision, as proposed by the Commission, it should be added that, as the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in neighbouring countries changes and complements the resolution on the situation of indigenous Slovenian minorities in order to give further emphasis to the economic and cultural field in this connection. And as for the economic area, of course, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the minutes, and not least because, as you say, because the meeting is public and we are being followed, the instigation of my colleague Školč to be personal or ours, the circle to which I belong, in any way related to the SAFTI affair, is absolutely depressed, absolutely depressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on the second decision and open the debate on the third decision and the two amendments to this Decision. Under 1 is the amendment of the Group of Members, with first-signed Jožet Ašić, with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, it will become an amendment under number 2 irrelevant. Under 2 is the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Squirrel, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I said earlier in the debate that you were colleagues, I think you were five, proposed that the third decision end with the word "domestic". And of course let go of the text, which reads: "mainly from countries where there is a severe political and economic crisis, and from those Slovenians who could contribute to the general development of the Republic of Slovenia." [[...]] And you say that there could be discrimination, but this dictatorship is completely overwritten by the resolution in force, and that cannot be the case. And even if the amendment under point 1 had been adopted, then the substantive amendment, as proposed in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, would allow for the return of young families in particular in the national immigration or repatriation policy, then this substantive amendment is not at all - we cannot decide on it. I would therefore suggest that we allow the amendment under point 2 to be decided, which means that the amendment under point 1 has been rejected in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The purpose of our proposal is, of course, to allow all Slovenians living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia to return to their homeland if they so wish. Of course, we assume that those in the more vulnerable countries, as far as the social situation is concerned, have a greater desire for this, but there is no need to close the circle. The resolution shall contain the text set out in this Decision. With this decision, let us extend the possibility for the government to provide conditions for return to all who wish, even for the reasons already stated today, that it is okay for Slovenia to increase its population in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I agree that the first amendment to the 3rd Article of the Group of Members with the first-signed colleague of the Union is, in fact, an exception to what we have already discussed and already mentioned in the resolution itself. The decision is to further encourage and commit to these matters being settled. By writing "particularly from countries where there is a severe political and economic crisis", we give greater emphasis to the problem. This, of course, does not mean that we would not be desirable from other parts of the world, far from it. However, it is not necessary to stress what is problematic, what is reasonable in itself. I therefore propose that we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. If we would like to make it possible, under the procedure, to decide on both amendments, which are not substantively connected in any way, substantively in nothing, but because of the interpretation that if, as the first amendment states, the article is to be completely amended, then our amendment should be drafted as an amendment to the amendment of the group of five Members. This is the only way that if the amendment under point 1 were to be adopted by accident, we could also decide on our amendment under point 2, which is substantive. The contents of this amendment also come from government material; the government says that most young, active families are expected in the future. It is true, however, what my colleague Pukšič said - it is a dictatorship enshrined in the current resolution, and it does not rule out, of course, that, with appropriate measures, it would not support the mobilization of Slovenians from other parts, but rather follow the content of the resolution. Thus, the Vice-President would request that you allow, however, a conditionality if an amendment under point 1 has been adopted so that an amendment under point 2 may then also be voted on, which has absolutely nothing to do with the amendment under point 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Thank you for your warning, Mr. Sponik. You are right, of course, and the note does not apply, because at the end of this decision a sentence is added, which is here in the amendment, where the first signed Mr. Ašič, the word "dominance" is placed on a dot, that is to say, it becomes the end of the sentence and then logically follows "in national policy". That's how I understand it, and professional services have a lot to do with it. Thus, when voting, the communication that the note on page 2 of the amendment review does not apply to the amendment of the group of Members with the first signed Mr. Ašić and we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 and the amendment under order number 2. Anyone else want to discuss the third decision and these two amendments? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. I am opening a debate on the fourth decision and the two amendments to this Decision. Under number 1, the amendment of the first-signed Mr Ašić's Group of Members, with a footnote, if the amendment under number 1 is adopted, becomes an amendment under number 2 irrelevant; under number 2, the amendment of the SLS Group is an amendment, and here I believe that the amendment is on the ground, because it is a whole modification of the decision, as proposed by the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Ašić. I'm opening a debate. Mr Auschwitz, then Mr Pukšič and Mr Podobnik. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It is certainly the wish of the Commission to remain, within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Office for Slovenians around the world as an organ as we know it today. However, the National Assembly adopted one law and imposed certain reorganisational changes on the government in the field of state administration. Therefore, we believe that it is not right for the State Assembly to call on the government to maintain it, but to request the government and send it to study to maintain it, and we believe that it would be okay. It is only that we do not interfere with the area for which, of course, we have adopted different provisions by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will not support this amendment for two reasons. One is the one written in the resolution on Slovenians in place, which I read earlier, so that the government will take care of Slovenians in place and around the world through the foreign ministry. That's what she reduced to the office. And the second reason is this. An important circumstance, which is also in favour of the Office as an administrative body in the composition, is the introduction of two new existing formal statuses, which will be introduced under the emerging umbrella law on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians in place and throughout the world. This is the status of Slovenian without Slovenian citizenship and this is also discussed by our first decision and the status of a repatriated person. The granting of one and the other status will take place under a procedure prescribed by the Administrative Procedure Act. The status will be granted by the Office, which means that it will carry out administrative tasks under administrative procedures. However, the implementation of administrative procedures requires so-called urgency or degree. A party to an administrative procedure must be able to appeal to a second-stage body at the decision of the authority representing the first stage of the decision. In this case, the Office shall be a first-degree and second-degree body minister. This is now in line with this arrangement. However, if the Office resigns as the administrative authority in the composition, the degree within the station will also be abolished. And if the Foreign Minister is only the first stage - then who will be the second level? Will it be the government of the Republic of Slovenia? So, with these changes to this office's status, we would, of course, do something that Mr Tercheon had previously pointed out in the debate, that it is good to make such decisions that can also be realized in life. By changing this status, we will, of course, come up with a decision that will not, in fact, be able to achieve, or the tasks that they will perform, fall as a purely second-rate task, with the content of the issue of substitution and the council will not be dealt with by anyone, but will only deal with administrative matters. This, of course, cannot be the first or second resolution, nor Article 5 of the Constitution, nor the law we are preparing. That's why I object to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Sponik, then Mr. Skolč. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. It is my opinion that if the government gave it the powers it gives - indeed, the new law of administration gives it explicit powers here - if this government were to abolish it, it would give one strong earring - the same resolution itself, and also give a completely wrong message, in my personal opinion, to the Slovenes in place and around the world. On the other hand, I am surprised that, as a national assembly, we are becoming so ambitious, so greedy, and so political. We're taking some autonomy for ourselves. The National Assembly accepts political positions, but let us not be embarrassed to do so. And someone other than Parliament will call on the government to do something! And I think that we are responsible for this and that we should not be embarrassed if we call on the government to maintain the autonomy and current competence of the Slovenian office in place and around the world. She will decide on her own terms of reference. Don't make that an argument! We shoot ourselves in the knee with these greedy views. And not just here, but in other ways. This also reduces the level of Parliament by such an interpretation, which is not correct. On the other hand, this amendment of respected colleagues is not logical. Why should the last paragraph be deleted which explains the first paragraph. The Office shall carry out specific work in both substantive and organisational terms. Therefore, the abolition of its autonomy would be contrary to the principle of effectiveness of the functioning of this body. It's the right thing to do. At the same time, the amendment of the parliamentary group adds "especially the immigration department of Slovenians from abroad," which has come to life in this office, and it is also right to write this down. I believe myself, my fellow Members and my fellow Members, that nothing would have been wrong if the National Assembly had adopted a decision as set out and that it would have also been amended to add the importance of the immigration of Slovenians from abroad in this Decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Contrary to my colleague, I think it would be wrong not to say that it would be very wrong to take such a decision. The supplement proposed also does not resolve the embarrassment in which the national assembly took place. Not long ago, when we had a thorough discussion on who will be the one to reorganise all these numerous offices and the state administration. And the criticism of most of the people in this congregation was that the network of these offices is completely impenetrable and impenetrable, and that in the end it also serves badly those for whom it was established. If I were to follow the logic that Mr Podobnik interpreted in his decision back, where the National Assembly had already adopted something and I agree with it that it is unreasonable for us to correct the decision at some point already in force, then I should have the same logic in the decision concerning the powers of the government when we are talking about the reorganisation of offices and the whole administration. From this point of view, it would be logical that this decision, as - in my view - would not be the only one to open up, because we are in fact interfering with the area of someone we have recently admitted to being fully and fully responsible for this office. The discussions at hand are, of course, also important for the government. What concerns me most in this debate is Mr Puksic's argument. This one is insufferable and impossible and unacceptable. What's he saying? He says that this office, which does something good, must have, in particular and in addition, some additional tasks from the law that no one has ever seen. How does an argument for an office and its powers have to be something that this national assembly has not yet accepted? From this point of view, it is necessary to be realistic, as Mr Pukšič himself says, and to limit itself to what we can right now. This is said to apply to applicable legislation, to applicable rules and this must apply from the first to the last decision. Not when it suits a person, but when it fails, we refer to the political will of the national assembly. Finally, this national assembly has decided certain things in certain matters in this reference, and I will say, it is my opinion that we accept these decisions and that we respect them at least for the end of this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. In order, since Mr Pukšič has been appointed, I give him my word for the replica first. Then Mr Bernik and then Mr Podobnik spoke. Please, rationally with time, 9 minutes is still a voting time to extend the point, and three more proposals for conclusions if you would like to discuss. Mr. Puksich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Yes, of course, if Mr Školcz interprets my statement in his own way and does not want to understand it, then this creates a colloquial that I have to correct. I was talking about that when the law was drafted - today there was a lot of talk and we also said that this is being done, that it is being prepared and that we are also predicting these two categories in the law, that this will be an additional work for the office. And I have talked about the consequences and obligations from the point of view of the administrative procedure. At the same time, I said we had to be realistic. This is exactly what has taken me in the sense that the Office will not only become an administrative part of the foreign ministry and will only deal with administrative matters, but that it will remain in the form it is, including an office with content - as it is so far. What decisions, then, are made when we refer to the political will of the national assembly? Mr Školč, even when you were a minister when you were in the government, your government, which you were a member of, did not respect the political decision taken in this national assembly. It's not! A resolution was adopted, the resolution was a political decision of the National Assembly and you did not respect it. A political decision has now been taken on the law, which is just the way it is, but this state council has the right and the duty to at least warn the government that the government requires that an office such as it is, at least keep at this level, without going four steps down if it does not go one step up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, I'd like to remind you what we're talking about. We're talking about our kinsmen in their place and in the world. Last time I saw a lot of interest in so-called "described," or what they're called, and a necessity that we have to do something about. But no one's ever heard from us this way about our cousins. Otherwise, I like Mr Auschwitz's lecture, because it is polite and so on, but it does not bring politeness anywhere in this House. In this House, if you don't have electoral power, you're not worth anything, no one will listen to you, no one will agree, no one will go pluralistically to you and say, "This is good for us all, let's forget the boundaries between the parties," that's how it's done all over - probably who knows it - in the entire democratic world. No, that hasn't happened yet. And it seems to me that this courtesy of our government is of no importance and they will laugh in our face; "we have prayed, we have prayed, we have demanded" in countless amendments and in countless things, even in the budget and so on, and we have not come anywhere. That's why, unfortunately, I won't support this amendment. Next time, I'd say this. This isn't about dog protection or animal protection. And I'm sure if that were the case, then we'd have a lot of discussions and support. However, I must say that in the Council of Europe they are now also talking about relatives around the world. And just in early May, there will be a conference on this in Warsaw. In addition, we talked for half a day about how to protect animals in transport. I thought it was very good, but on the other hand it is not - and I am sure we would also spend a lot of time on it, but we just never have time to talk about our relatives. So I ask that we simply say that this must happen. How many times have we called on the government to do something, and, damn it, if we don't do it for our compatriots around the world, we're funny! Political decisions are being made here and we must therefore make this political decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Four more minutes are available. Mr. Sponik, please, about the fourth conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you. Very briefly. If I were to interpret this kind of decision, with such content, as opposed to and interference with the power of the government, then I wonder what the business path is, in general, for a national assembly like Parliament, as a legislative body, when it finds that there is a situation in some area, a question that is necessary, which is sensitive, how should it even turn to the government? In my view, the way the government calls for something to be preserved, something to think about is correct. However, the government will decide, within its powers, because it will not report to us any more. I do not accept the interpretation that this way of writing decisions is contrary to business provisions. I think that this is the wrong interpretation and that you are simply a state assembly of powers it has, and this is very, very surprising and I am disappointed at such a position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the fourth decision. I am opening a debate on the fifth decision and the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Jožet Ašić. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u192	As this decision will also obviously be quite controversial, let me just point out that it is not disputed that the National Assembly calls and proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a material basis for the needs of Slovenians in place and around the world. We only propose deleting the part that speaks of being sufficient to implement their programmes. We all know that there is no budgetary consumer in Slovenia - and this category is also a budgetary consumer - who would be satisfied with the funding of the programmes proposed. Everyone who responds to the call for proposals does not receive 100% of the funding for the implementation of the programmes, but receives the share that is foreseen in the call for proposals and the resources available. This decision speaks of this - "which will be sufficient to implement their programmes" and we think that in the future it can also cause interpretations up to 100% of the coverage of certain programmes, which is unlikely to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, please, then Mr. Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I oppose this amendment to the 5th decision of the first-signed Mr Auschwitz for substantive reasons. When they have placed a dot, our decision goes on to say: "and for them, it is intended to provide the means that will be sufficient for the implementation of their programmes." That doesn't mean he's going 100% for all the programs and so on. This means that it allocates funds in accordance with the information, with the information we have now after the third annual call for proposals, according to the programmes that apply, which are substantive and so on. Fellow Members and fellow Members, this means that in 1995 the Slovenian office was in place and around the world for funds for Slovenians in place and around the world one billion 517 million 175 thousand - in 1995. This was 0.3% of the total budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In 2003, before the rebalancing, there were 1 billion 840 million 744 thousand. That's 0.125, that's 2.5 times less money in eight years. 2.5 times less money in eight years! Well, how many resolutions have we adopted? We are talking legislation, we are talking about repatriation, we are talking about maintenance of Slovenian language and culture. We are talking about the world's vocabulary and the means that we are so stricken, but of course we are not supporting, not entirely - no, colleagues and colleagues - in some part of the 10th, 20th percent. I almost do not believe that which project is supported by 30 per cent of the foreign government, for everything else Slovenians around the world and instead acquire other sponsoring funds and their own resources and thus preserve Slovenian identity. That's why I disagree with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Just a minute more 30 and two debaters, please, and then I have to stop the debate. Mr. Squirrel and Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u196	It says it's an amendment of editorial nature. The amendment is not editorial, the amendment is very substantive. If we accept this interpretation, then it means that we will take the decision that the Government in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and around the world should allocate funds for them. That's not our purpose. It's clear who's doing this. The second part of the amendment speaks of this: "... and for them, it is intended to provide the means for the implementation of their programmes." If we do not have the political courage to show some positive attitude towards the Slovenians in place and around the world, then I really don't know why we put this point on the agenda. So the amendment is not editorial in nature.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. In today's debate, a great deal of speech has been spoken, and I think it will be inversely proportional. When we come to the vote, how to allocate funds, then it starts cutting. This is incredible what's happening here at the National Assembly. It's not the first time. When clear conclusions are needed, the next point is likely to be the same problem and then the matter stops. So we can't, dear colleague and colleague, resolve in this way. I'm interested in concrete results. And these concrete results with regard to Slovenians in place and around the world over the last 8 years, what my colleague Puksic said, is very little. And that's a picture of you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u199	Please, Mr. Tiny. [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have used 30 minutes of our own time to discuss the proposals for conclusions and the amendment to this Decision. We have not been able to hold a debate on the two amendments, the new sixth and seventh conclusions of which are proposed by Mr Jožef Školč. However, I can confidently assess from the debate that took place this afternoon in this Chamber that these two additional proposals for additional two decisions are supported by almost all those who discussed this afternoon. I conclude this debate and allow only a minute to hand over my seat to the President, who will lead the vote on today's decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u200	We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second consideration of the bill on humanitarian and charitable organisations. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Humanitarian and Charity Organisations - the second reading - is not suitable for further consideration." Can we make a decision? Okay, then we'll decide. We're voting. We decide on the proposal for a decision given by the competent working body regarding the appropriateness of further consideration. 58 present, 43 to and 13 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that this Decision has been adopted and that we can conclude this 3rd item of the agenda by means of this Decision. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposed Real Estate Intermediation Act. By the 10th Article, which we will first decide, the New Slovenia Group first submitted a supplement to the supplement and then withdrew this supplement, so that we remain with the basic text of the amendment, as it was tabled in Article 10. Please, Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. I am obliged to explain the amendment to Article 10 when I presided over the meeting [[...]] Here's what I'm finding out. In the general debate on the law as a whole or in the debate on the law, it was expressed in its entirety that the amendment of the New Slovenia Group was not acceptable, and the government opposed it. Therefore, the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group proposed the replacement of the amendment with a manuscript, and we have a revision of the amendment in the manuscript, with Mr Plevelj being kept. Before the conclusion of the debate on Article 10, I have read the proposed amendment and it is clearly stated in Lotus Note or in my programme, by getting such an amendment. We received the amended amendment because that manuscript does not say "if we do not agree with the parties in the Slovenian language", it says - please correct me, because now after memory - "if we do not agree with the parties in their language, they understand." Please, let's find out. In my opinion and my belief, only this amendment can be the subject of a decision because, until the conclusion of the debate, such an amendment was replaced by the original amendment in Article 10. When the debate on Article 10 was concluded, and also on Articles 11 and 25, and even when the agenda item was concluded, we will be granted a withdrawal which, in my opinion, is irrelevant. I believe that we can vote and decide only on this amended amendment in the content presented before the conclusion of the debate at the meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u202	Before I give my word to my colleague Petty Officer, let me say that I have a withdrawal from the amendment. In Article 10, I am withdrawing the amendment of the Group of Members. Please, Comrade Petty Officer, behind him, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u203	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have withdrawn the amendment, so the amendment is as tabled by the New Slovenia Group before the beginning of the consideration of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u204	My friend Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u205	Yeah, I'm asking you to take a look at what was really going on. I have everything black in white here and it is clear from this that the amendment cannot be rectified because it was made later. And more! There was even a case where something else had been published in Lotus Noteus, as had been read to the speaker. And please don't go too far with manipulations. So find out exactly what is - the withdrawal correction cannot be done. If you want, I'll give it to you, or you'll get it because you've got enough work to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u206	I asked how with this, it was explained that a few minutes too late to withdraw, so we will have to vote on this, as was supplemented by the New Slovenia Group. Will it be enough for the National Assembly to read the text of the amended amendment, or do you want to get it in writing in front of you on the bench? "In the fourth paragraph of Article 10, a new fifth indent shall be added, which shall read: 'If the parties do not agree in it in an understandable language'." Is that right? Are you asking me to get this in writing? Please, Comrade Anderlich. This is a correction, as they have made, and takes into account your comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u207	Oh, yeah, but I'm just wondering what's been going on for three hours now that this revised amendment isn't on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u208	You're demanding to get him on the bench? Look, colleague Anderlič, I asked earlier before the vote whether there were any voting complications, and I got an explanation that there were no such complications, so I didn't expect that we could take a break now, if that's what you want - I don't think that's necessary. I will read again: 'In the fourth paragraph of Article 10, a new fifth indent is added, which reads: 'If we do not agree with the parties in it in an understandable language.'' Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u209	I would truly apologize to all those who think we can vote at this time. However, I would like to understand those who understood the Chairman who said, "before the vote, you will get the amended amendment on the bench, just as it has been said". Why he's gone for three hours, I don't know. And I ask you to do this, because the law that we have been making for months and months to happen to us as it happened to us, that one announced, the other published, and the third filed, is not working! Please put what needs to be put on the table and then we will vote on it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u210	That's what I'm gonna do. In about ten minutes, I'm going to interrupt the National Assembly meeting. It is always so that when someone asks for the material of the forerunner, a certain break is taken, and you get it. I'll interrupt the session in ten minutes, so you can have the material on the bench that we're going to decide on. Procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. They can prepare the material at this time, and we're going to the next point. Stop this point, let's go to the second point, and let's go back.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u212	Is this acceptable to the National Assembly? Does anyone object? If there's only one, I won't do it. You object. Ten minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u213	Colleagues and colleagues! One of our co-workers already divides the text by slop, which we now have in writing before us and is about to amend the amendment to the proposal for a real estate intervention law. This is an amendment to Article 10, as tabled by the New Slovenia Group. I will wait two minutes for colleagues and colleagues to gather in the large debate room and then we will move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u214	Once again, I ask my colleagues and colleagues to sit in their bench. We'll continue with the decision. Just a moment longer, Comrade Petty Officer. There's no debate. This one's closed. Maybe just explain the voice. You want to explain your voice? Okay. Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have formally corrected the amendment tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Sok, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The text is now identical as proposed by Mr Sok. Given that only the amendment was read at the time and I did not hear it well, I, of course, dictated to my professional colleagues the text that came as you received it, and it was not in line with what was presented. I didn't get a good look at it myself. But it is that correction that the professional colleague wrote and I also described it, is a logical amendment and would be useful in substance for Slovenia and for the language and for this law. Given the need to adhere strictly to procedural rules, for substantive reasons this amendment is of such a nature that I do not support it myself. Unfortunately, this has happened and the Group of Members cannot support it and will not support it. It's understandable that no, because it's diametrically opposite. I apologize for the disagreement, but we wanted to do something useful. What was first reported, so that the amendment in its original form would be supported and aligned through the harmonisation amendments, would of course be the right solution. Or it may be an opportunity for the marriage to be completed on the occasion of the first opportunity to benefit both the Slovenians and the Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u216	A colleague of mine, an explanation of the voice. May I have your attention in the hall, please? My friend Peca is the only one who has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u217	Respectable present. I must also express my dissatisfaction on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, in particular with regard to the conduct of the Ministry. We believe that the amendment, or amendment, is mainly due to the action of the Minister, who spoke of the substantive discrepancy between the basic proposal for amendment to Article 10, which would allow or require that a foreign natural person should not conduct business of a real estate intermediary if he does not have the skills of the Slovenian language. The knowledge of the Slovenian language is proven by public documents. When the government tried to convince us that you do not have one, the content of this amendment is appropriate for Article 10. I cannot agree with this in any way, and I regret that the drafter of the basic amendment, that is, the New Slovenia Group, has amended the amendment, which unfortunately turned out later, even in their kind, that this was not appropriate, but we are convinced that the National Assembly should entrust or vote on the old amendment and finally meet with the harmonisation amendment. I am also convinced that the substance of the amendment to Article 10 in the original sense would lead to the proposal of the Real Estate Intermediation Act being one of the better laws adopted in this mandate. Unfortunately, this is not the case, and in the National Party for Amendment Amendments to Article 10, amended, this, which has given rise to some kind of problem, and that we have also had to wait 10 minutes for it to be distributed to the Member, we do not intend to support it and we will be held in the framework of the vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u218	The National Assembly will now vote on the amended amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 10. We're voting. We vote on the amended amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 10. 64 present. 11 for and 45 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We will decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 13. We vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 13. 52, none against 63 present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The Government has also tabled an amendment to Article 25. We're voting. This one's been accepted: 50 for, no-one against, since the '66s. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. How's the consistency? Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. In the light of the few amendments adopted in the second reading, not today, there have been two minor inconsistencies: one in Article 15 and one in Article 34. In Article 15, the words "and conclusion" should be deleted in point 2 of the second paragraph and the words "with a legal examination" should be deleted in paragraph 10 of the first paragraph. Those four words. These two harmonisation amendments, also in line with the Parliamentary Law Service, I am investing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u220	Then I propose to the National Assembly that we terminate the decision on the proposal for a real estate intervention law at this point, so that we can get on the bench before the final decision, which is foreseen at the end of today's agenda, this harmonisation amendment and its decision. This way we can continue with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda - with the first reading of the proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos-cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure for drinking water. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the gradual replacement of asbestos-cement pipes in the water supply infrastructure for drinking water supply at first reading is suitable for further treatment." We're voting. We vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. 63 in attendance, 24 in and 36 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the proposal is closed. Procedurally, colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you, President, for your word. I would like to take advantage of the procedure which we call "procedural" in the Rules of Procedure. In the context of the debate, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as one option, expected that the law would not receive support for the continuation of the procedure. And today, in the debate, so to speak, all parliamentary groups, as well as a number of Members and Members, have been exposed to the problem of asbestos as an environmentally unacceptable raw material. In our view, the current Rules of Procedure in Article 237 allow us to request the Government or the individual ministry to report to the National Assembly on the enforcement of laws, regulations and so on. And we have put into the procedure a decision, which reads: "In accordance with Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure, we propose the following decision: 'The competent ministries are required to report within three months to the National Assembly on the implementation and effects of the National Environmental Protection Programme, which was adopted by the National Assembly at its meeting on 16 September 1999, and in particular on the application of the conditions for the replacement of environmentally unacceptable raw materials." In our view, we have the basis for such a decision in the Rules of Procedure. I have heard that the Vice-President, before concluding this point, has stated that there is no basis - and I ask you, Mr President, is this a typical situation referred to in Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure? Therefore, we ask the ministries or the government to report to the National Assembly on the enforcement of laws, other regulations adopted by the National Assembly and on other measures under their jurisdiction and their effects. And that is what we have proposed with a conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u222	Well, I believe that the Vice-President did the right thing and that he correctly interpreted Article 237. After the new rules of procedure, and even after the practice that we have followed since its adoption, we have never adopted any laws that we have adopted - this is essentially an additional decision. 237. Article 237 states that the National Assembly may adopt a decision from the Government and so on. [[...]] I believe that this could be a decision that could be adopted as a specific item of the agenda and then go through the whole procedure, to which the committee responsible would be identified. Thus, I believe that it is possible to explain Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u223	The President, with all due respect to you and to the conduct of this meeting, I am deeply convinced that your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is wrong. Nor was the purpose of the drafters of the Rules of Procedure; it was precisely because, at this point in the agenda, we cannot take any decisions at all, that we took one guardian so that we could turn to the government in this way. If you insist on your explanation, we'll just go to the business committee. I don't see another option, but I think it's a shame that today the National Assembly does not turn to the government on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal for a decision shall be written as correctly as possible and shall also be reasoned and, unfortunately, not distributed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u224	See, your initiative is absolutely meaningful, legitimate, and can be addressed to the business committee on the question of Article 237. I believe that, even in view of the practice so far, it is not possible to explain otherwise than it is written. I'm sorry. I'm going to insist on this position. If you feel otherwise, please refer your proposal to the business committee for an explanation of this article. That's how we ended this agenda. We are considering the Commission's work on relations with Slovenia in place and around the world from 27 March 2001 to 31 December 2002. Earlier, the vice president had said that he had completed something. You've got it all in the review you got on the bench today. We're in a single-phase procedure. We'll go from complete to complete. I suggest we go to the amendments and then make a full decision. Amendments and decisions in full - is this procedure transparent? Okay. To the first decision, we have a supplement, an amendment by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Ašić. There is a possible explanation of vote, or we will go to the vote and then we will go to the decision in full. [[Question.]] Excuse me? It's already been changed. Thus, we will now decide on the proposal of the Group of Members with the first-signed colleague of Auschwitz to the first decision. I'm putting him to the vote. Please explain your voice? I asked, but you didn't hear. Please be careful. You warned me before the time was up, so I'll make it possible. Otherwise I wouldn't. Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I didn't hear because there was talk about what was on the screen and what wasn't; so here was a conversation about it. In this first amendment to the first decision - in fact, they change in this part which says: in accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks explicitly of Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. The Slovenians Without Slovenian Citizenship Act was introduced in the previous term. The government has not defined it, and now that we have begun to prepare the Slovenians living law - with a working address - this is not yet the title of the law - outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, we have agreed that one of the chapters will also be Slovenians without Slovenian citizenship. In fact, I wouldn't want that to limit in this sense, if not, then I don't mind the amendment. But if that's restrictive, I won't support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u226	So there's no misunderstanding again, does anyone else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then I pay attention, please, to the proposal of the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed colleague of the Council to the first decision on the vote. We're in the middle of a vote. 64 present, 42 for and 19 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 19.]] We will now decide on the first decision in its entirety, as supplemented by the supplement just adopted. We're voting. Please. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry. [[...]] Thank you so much for the heads-up. In the second decision, the Slovenian People's Party's Group is proposing an amendment. Does anyone want to explain the vote before deciding on the supplement to the second decision? We decide on the addition of the Slovenian People's Party's Group to the second decision. 58 present, 40 to, 11 to. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the supplement has been accepted. Now, however, we must decide on a second decision in its entirety, as supplemented by the supplement just adopted. We're voting. 65 present, 60 for and one for. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. The decision is adopted. We have two amendments to Article 3, where the Vice-President, when concluding the debate or holding the debate, has warned that the note you have in the review is not relevant, so that we will decide on both proposals. First, on the proposal of a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Auschwitz. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? The decision is adopted. 44 for, 13 to 65. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now deciding on a proposal for a supplement tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're making a decision. 63 present, 54 to, 2 to. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that this supplement has also been accepted. And now we must decide on the third decision in its entirety, as supplemented by the additions we have just adopted. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? The decision has been taken. 64 present, 56 to, 2 to. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] In the fourth decision, we have a proposal from our colleague, and from the Group of Members, here the remark is relevant, if adopted, the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group becomes irrelevant. Can we decide? Then we will first vote on the proposal under number one to the fourth decision that this decision should be put to the new vote as proposed. Please, we're voting. May I have your attention, please? 36 for, 23 to 65. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] We have taken this decision. Thus, the decision on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party or the Group of Members becomes irrelevant. On the fifth decision, we have a proposal from our colleague, Ašić, and a group of Members to amend the text or part of the text of the fifth decision. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you, President. I will not support this amendment to the fifth conclusion. In my view, it will be unusual for you to adopt a decision to find that the government will also draw up budget lines for Slovenians in place and around the world when preparing the budget. That's what he has to do. If we delete the last sentence which speaks of this, "if it provides them with the means that will be sufficient to implement their programmes", then this decision is totally unnecessary. I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u228	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] Then we will decide on the proposal of a group of Members with our first-signed colleague, Auschwitz. We're voting. The decision is adopted. 39 for, 19 to 63. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] That is how we must now decide on the fifth decision in its entirety. We're voting. We vote on the text of the fifth decision. 63 present, 43 to, 9 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand he's been accepted. He proposed a new sixth and seventh decision. First, we'll decide on a new sixth decision. The National Assembly may decide, please vote. Peace in the Chamber, so that there may be no slips in the vote, I ask your attention. 66 present, 54 for, 4 versus. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] The sixth decision is adopted. Finally, the seventh decision is also proposed by colleague Školč. We decide on it, we decide on a new seventh decision. May I have your attention, please? 61 present, 54 for and none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This is how the new seventh decision was adopted. We have thus exhausted the decision on this item, the sixth item of the agenda, on the report on the work of the Commission. Please, is it true that all of you have before you the harmonisation amendments to the Real Estate Intermediation Act? Can we decide? I don't see a contract. Would you like a representative of the government? Representatives of parliamentary groups? The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] Then we will move on to the decision on the harmonisation amendment, first of all Article 15. We're voting. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 15. May I have your attention, please? 58 present. 48 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still need to decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 34. We're making a decision. We decide on the harmonisation amendment to Article 34 of the Real Estate Intermediation Act. We're voting. 57 present. 49 for and no one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how we concluded this agenda item, that was the fourth point. We still have to decide on the whole law, this is about the real estate law. We are voting on the law as a whole, as it has been supplemented by two harmonisation amendments, to Articles 15 and 34. We're voting. 60 present. 46 for and 10 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. That's really the fourth point we're running out of. At 7. We are at the point of the day on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Gradual Closure of the Ripper Mine and the Developmental Prestructuring of the Region. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the Secretary of State want a word? [[A voice from behind.]] Excuse me, Mr. Secretary of State. I see you didn't report the debate in advance. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u229	Your Honor! The government proposes to amend the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine in the part relating to the development restructuring of the region. The key amendment we are proposing is to extend the programming period by two additional years. This will give us a little more time to meet the stated objectives of the law, that is one thing. Secondly and most importantly, it is difficult to secure the annual amounts laid down in the law within the framework of public finances. Therefore, the extension of the programming period will allow, at the same time as the annual amounts are reduced, this programme to be implemented in the way it was intended. There are other changes. An additional municipality, Šmarje pri Litija, is included as an area where these funds are used. Otherwise, the powers to implement the law are redistributed by the various national authorities, which have been caused by changes in the organisation of the government, and this is it. Otherwise, with regard to the implementation of the law itself, let me draw attention to just two things. We are in the third year of implementing the law, so we already have some positive, but also experience. This is a programme approach which is a novelty in the practice of development restructuring in terms of promoting coherent regional development. The programme was implemented in two years, 89% in the first year and 98% in the second year. This is said to mean that the region is also actually using the funds allocated to it. We have exercised control over the use of funds in the region for 2001, which has not shown any specific irregularities. Therefore, funds shall be used for the purposes for which they have been allocated. This year, we are going to evaluate the external evaluator, from the independent evaluator government, which is likely to bring about some additional changes in the programme and better focus on measures. The government itself has done something about it every year when it identifies the situation in this area. We propose that the law be adopted to allow for more effective and legal implementation and an effective conclusion to what has been set with the objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u230	The draft law was examined by the Committee on the Economy. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, first to Comrade Petty Officer. In accordance with Article 125, the discussion shall be limited to a maximum of five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Sava region, mining has prevailed for a long time as a major economic sector, which [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u232	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u233	So, as an economic sector that mainly employed labour from the same place, from all over Slovenia, as well as from other former republics of Yugoslavia. From experience in other countries of Europe, we have been able to learn how restructuring is carried out, both from positive and negative experience. In 2000, a development restructuring programme for the Sava region was adopted, which enabled - which is an appropriate document to carry out the tasks assigned. We certainly need to ask ourselves what the effects of this programme and of the adopted law are, which also provides funds from the state budget for this public company, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik, in closing. The results, as we also know from the census on the number of enterprises and then the gross product of the active population and all these changes, can be found that the programme could run better. However, it would have been better if there had been other legislation, particularly with regard to investment in foreign investment or domestic investment, as well as regional development programmes, in short, if all of this had gone better. Thus they also worked in Germany, Belgium, England, where they closed similar areas as opposed to Slovenian so much that these areas were significantly larger. However, when you look at this data, you can quickly find that without really good investments and without good support regional programmes, the issue cannot be well implemented. The government says it is running out of money to implement the law, so I would like to postpone the obligations to implement this programme. This, of course, also risks that the restructuring programmes will take place later, in the second period, during the second period of the government set-up. This, of course, will reduce investments at the same time - the country is canceling the anti-cyclical stabiliser, which it had predicted at the time, but now I do not know whether the Prime Minister, Mr Rop. Well, now we're dealing with hidden public finances. The postponement of this programme for a later period will also lead to the implementation of the programmes in a later period and will require greater funding. Therefore, higher secondary costs. By shifting these obligations, we can happen, which can be very confident to predict, a great burden after 2004, which can mean financial risks, the expression - chaos in public finances. Not because of this, but because of everything that the government has been repossessing after 2004, it's like it's going to be some new sacred period. With this law, the government is also trying to pass the labour law to abolish the dismissals of workers. This is not a suitable measure for an undertaking, even if it is public, to exclude rights that apply under the general labour law. I would understand the Government if it proposed a general provision on a labour law that would apply to all entities in the restructuring process to be subject to such a rule, but should look closely at the rights of workers if they are included in the restructuring programmes. In the light of the above, we consider that the existing law is not necessary, is not appropriate and does not adequately address the problems of restructuring the mining region. What is important and necessary in this law is only the name of the Ministry, which is a necessary consequence of the amended Law on Local Self-Government, concerning the division of the municipality of Lithium. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Mr Grošelj will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, behind him, colleague Kelemin instead of colleague Jerovska, as originally reported. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u235	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Nicely greeted! In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have taken seriously the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Perhaps also because we have been particularly attentive to the development of this region even when energy activity has traditionally been a vehicle for development. In the Sava region, many times in the past, they were placed before the responsible and challenging task, or at a time when the energy activity would provide the conditions for the construction of the third block of Thermoelectric Trbovlje, as well as at the time and after when the voters decided in the previous legislative referendum in January 1999 against the construction of Thermoelectrica 3. At the time of preparation for the adoption of the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, the municipalities, in addition to the strategic document Zasavje 2000 plus, in particular the Municipality of Hrastnik and Trbovlje, developed strategic orientations of the development restructuring with specific development programmes of companies and programmes for the establishment of the development infrastructure of the municipality and training and development programmes for the period 2000 to 2004. These programmes were submitted to the Ministry of Economy in February 2000. As a basis for the adoption of the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, the law was adopted in June 2000, a study was produced, an assessment of the costs of closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine in the production of coal by the end of 2015, which also provided funds for the development restructuring of the region of SIT 8 billion. The Ministry of Economy has established a maximum funding framework of SIT 4 billion. On this basis, two billion SIT 600 to create spatial conditions for the development of new activities in municipalities, one billion 150 million SIT for entrepreneurial investment and the promotion of entrepreneurship, and one billion 150 SIT for the promotion of investment in human resources development are intended instead. In fact, the programme was not financially implemented in 2000, during the Bajuk government. In 2001, 665 million SITs were actually used from the State budget of 800 million and 850 million SIT in the 2002 budget. The funds for 2000 were liquidly released only at the end of December and for the year 2000 in January 2003 and for 2003 and 2004. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, in particular in the development restructuring of the region, is not implemented in accordance with the intention of the legislator, probably not because of several sub-legislative acts to implement the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which otherwise regulates the competence to prepare regional programming and implementing documents and to monitor the implementation of regional development programmes, as provided for in Chapter 4, the development restructuring of the region in that law. We could also identify differences between the actual situation and the legal standard, which are further defined in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of that law by emergency procedure. In view of the above, in the Group of Members we agree that the validity of the law for failure to comply is extended to 2006 for a period of time. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats presented its views on the implementation of the law in more detail during two coalition coordinations in October and November 2002. However, in the draft law of 28.3. this year, the proposal sought to ensure in Article 3 that workers who as redundant workers are actively dismissed are not entitled to retirement. We have therefore proposed coalition coordination to delete Article 3 and have united ourselves that the abolition of the waiver is unacceptable and contrary to Article 9 of the Labour Relations Act. The coalition amendment with the same content was adopted by the Committee on the Economy as its amendment. MEPs and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote in favour of the complementary draft law, which includes all the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Comrade Groschel. Mr Kelemin will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, followed by his colleague Barovic. First of all, my friend Kelemin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you. Respectable all together! Our party's parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, will support this proposal of the law, but we believe that the reasons the government has cited as fundamental reasons why this law should be amended - otherwise they may have some arguments - but we are assessing, as it has already been heard, that the main reasons are that the government has not implemented the existing law. That's a fact. And now it is trying, because it does not find funds in existing finances, to extend it for a longer period, it is said, to be extended for two years. But in our Group of Members, we firmly believe that this is not the last extension. If you behave as you have done so, and you will obviously continue to do so, you will not be able to provide funds for the implementation of this law in advance. As we passed this law, we were somehow in doubt in our parliamentary group that this was the way to resolve certain areas before any programmes were even adopted. We have now found that in fact the restructuring programmes, what is most important, which should have had the effects, in order for people to work and so on, these effects are not, because these programmes were not prepared in time, they were not realized, there were no resources and so on - a whole series of problems. And in this way, please, the laws are not being implemented. I don't know what you're doing on this side, where you're in the majority, that you just don't know what obligations you're taking or how you're going to provide the means to keep the law going. But there's something else. In our Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, we find that funds are spent extremely irrationally and harmfully for the country when closing mines, especially in these specific laws we have. Look, now we've got two reports from the Court of Auditors. Report on Lead Mine and Zinc Mežica - negative opinion. A whole bunch of irregularities! And the money is spent like that, in three days! Just not what it would take to enable workers to have new jobs - those who have left their lives in mines, so to speak, in old years or in some extraordinary years they do not have some social security. They don't have those! But the money is spent in three days! Take a look at the Court of Auditors report! Now we've got a negative report on the Seine Mine. Look what it says! This is where the money goes with the shovel! And I firmly believe that it will be no different if the state does not ensure that controls are a little more effective and that there are competent and responsible people behind this law or all of these law enforcement. In short, totally, to the extreme, a demeaning anarchy in this area! And here make order, here! While we support Mr Barovic's efforts to ensure that workers actually have at least one of these. At least the workers I told you about before leave their lives or leave their lives or a good part of their lives in mine pits. Unfortunately, not all his proposals have been accepted, but most of us support these things, and of course his thanks, of course, for advocating that at least the workers have something out of it. In short, as I have said, we will also support these few amendments adopted by the Committee, but we expect the authorities - and we will always warn you - that you will continue to respect the legislation and that you will properly provide the funds for these purposes. In fact, we were also trying to achieve this, so that the law would not say that spending or providing funds up to a level, say, 850 million for a year, but that it would say "at least". And now it's going to be back in the budget for next year, and I'm pretty sure this item isn't going to be 850 million, but it's going to be significantly smaller, because you won't have coverage. In short, anarchy in the whole area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u238	Mr Barovic will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by his colleague Diaci. First, my friend Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Secretary of State! With this amendment of the law, the National Assembly - I hope - will extend the period of co-financing of the closure of the mine by two years. Moreover, the law is in line with new facts. Well, among the facts mentioned in the explanation are the facts that my respected colleagues have told before me on my right, but fine. The stock was too large under the original law and now we are going to divide it into a longer period in total, the dynamics for all three measures will be the same. And that's right. By extending the financing of the so-called Swiss law, the Programme of Action will be coordinated with the Regional Development Programme for Zasavje and with the financial perspectives of the European Union. Since the first year was not implemented, and not all funds were used in 2001 and 2002, the extension of the funding of the measures by 2006 was intended to ensure the implementation of the entire closure programme. This "no" and "no" need to be explained. Problems with the implementation of this law in 2001 and 2002 were caused by the late adoption of the annual implementation programme in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This was not adopted until June 2002. As a result, the tenders were published quite late, June 2003 and 2002 respectively, and contracts for the implementation of individual projects were signed later. The municipalities also had major difficulties in obtaining appropriate documentation for infrastructure projects in such a short time. However, on the basis of the amendment of the so-called Sava law, no additional financial resources will be made available to the region, which, of course, is an excuse and an excuse. Whether this is the case or not, we will see that the funds provided for the financing of the tasks under the law are only redistributed. Otherwise, the amendment of the law, which amends the law in 2000, takes into account the reorganisation of individual ministries. Here I would like to say this: when we decided in this National Assembly that energy should be transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Space, I personally said that this was impossible and inappropriate. However, the National Assembly voted the transfer to the ILO and today - after two years, not yet, or maybe after two years, or maybe a month or two more - it turned out that I was right then and the Slovenian National Party. It is not right that energy has been in the ILO and is being transferred back to the work that has grown from the Ministry of the Economy. And then the energy could stay there and it would be a lot different. In addition, I would like to point out something else in the end. We're not free, I'm not, or we haven't tabled three amendments with our colleagues for free. The first is to delete Article 2. We know why - not only because it is in breach of the labour law, but also because it is necessary to make it clear that the money for re-employment is not paid to workers, to miners who choose to do so, but to employers. And they can do what they want with it, and after five years they can do what they want with the workers. That's why we want a fuse, even if it doesn't feel right for a lot of people or it's going to be obvious to us; if, for one thing, it's true for one another, it's not. The law is that the law should be so enforced, and it is a guardian for those workers, miners who will have to look for their new jobs on a large scale. The second amendment is due to what my esteemed colleague, Kelemina, had just said. Nothing up to, like, 800 million can even be 100,000 tolars. This year so much, this year so much, this year so much and this year so much. Either the programmes are ready or not, it's a matter of municipalities and it's a matter of regional organisation. The funds must be provided - and to finish, Mr President-respected - I have made another amendment, where the words "may be supplemented by the resources of the European Union", are deleted "may" and supplemented. Despite my conviction, I still claim and insist that the simple word "may" can be deleted. And I call on my colleague - thank you, Mr President, I will finish - I call on my colleagues to consider this amendment when it is decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. I now invite my colleague Diacia to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u241	Yes, thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. Unemployment, bankruptcy and restructuring are one of the biggest problems in Slovenia recently. That is why yesterday I also asked the question of unemployment, which rates are particularly pronounced in the eastern part of Slovenia. Almost a week goes by when we are not faced with the hardships of people who have lost their jobs after years of work, sometimes, unfortunately, even hope. Zasavje, especially the municipality of Trbovlje, is one of those places where the above is pronounced when once successful Trbovlje faced new market and economic conditions. At one time, this pool was powered by energy from all over Slovenia, as well as wider. The new situation in Trbovje is the closure of industrial giants and the excruciating adjustment to the new situation, a different structure of the economy, which is mainly a problem for specific personnel such as miners, Knaps. In view of the fact that the energy activity in the Sava region employed more than 75% of all employees in the past, state aid was an emergency when the mines were closed. Thus, the law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the developmental restructuring of the region was adopted. The applicant explained in detail the facts which should amend and supplement this law. In the fact that the proposal for a law on the law of origin has been amended accordingly, we do not see any reservations in the text that the amended bill would not be supported. We are particularly pleased that the amendment to Article 3 or to delete this amendment has been adopted, and that further payments of benefits will be made to redundant workers in accordance with the law. There were quite a few words on the committee about the appropriateness or inappropriateness of such an arrangement. As far as texting is concerned, the matter is clear. We are glad that the members of the committee finally felt the same way. We will support the amended bill in our SMS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u242	Mr Jerič will present the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy and his colleague Brenčič. Then we'll decide, so I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come back to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u243	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished Mr Secretary of State! In the Zasav region, energy activity traditionally represented a development vehicle and employed a large number of employees in companies in Zasavje. In January 1999, voters voted in the previous legislative referendum against the construction of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. Under such conditions, taking into account the 15.7% unemployment rate and the findings of the study The assessment of the costs of closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine in the production of coal by the end of 2015 was passed in June 2000 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. At the time of the implementation of the Sava Law from 2000 until now, a number of laws and regulations have been adopted in the National Assembly and in the Government, which otherwise regulate powers and responsibilities, both for the preparation of individual measures and sub-programmes and for the implementation and control of the law itself. Let me mention only some of the laws adopted during this period: the law on the organisation and work of ministries, the law on state administration, the law on the establishment of municipalities and the establishment of their areas, the law on labour relations, the law on the promotion of coherent regional development and, last but not least, the state budgets, both for 2003 and the 2004 budget. This discrepancy between the actual situation and the legal standards needs to be brought into line quickly, and this will, in our opinion, be done with the amendments adopted and the amendments to the law of suture. The purpose of the law is to harmonise the period for which a programme of measures is being drawn up with the current financial perspective of the European Union, including until 2006 or to extend the programming period by two years. Involvement of the newly established municipality of Šmartno in Lithuania, redistribution of budgetary resources and arrangements of financial commitments undertaken in such a way as to allow the extended period of implementation of the law to be fully implemented, adopted by the programme. Eliminate the discrepancy between the actual performance of the tasks in the development restructuring of the Sava region. In the light of the fact that the proposal for a law on the home committee has been amended accordingly on the Committee on the Economy, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be complemented by a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the gradual closure of the RTH and the development restructuring of the region. We are particularly pleased in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group that amendments have been adopted either to the third article or to delete the third article and, of course, the amendment to the sixth article. Both in our view and in the view of the legislative and legal services, workers of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine must be subject to the solutions provided for in Article 109 of the Labour Relations Act as a system law in this area. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we expect that, with the amendments and amendments to the law adopted in the future, there will be fewer problems in the implementation of the law, both in providing adequate financial resources and of course in the implementation of the programme itself, and that we will achieve the basic objective of the law enshrined in the adopted law of 2000, which is the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Brenčič will also present the views of the parliamentary group [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. The law that we are changing today has been drafted by the government. It was also financially evaluated by the government, but was accepted by the National Assembly with the majority required for this reception. The evaluation took place on the basis of public funds, that is to say, public funds do not allow such baranting to occur and qualified programmes had to be set aside for these values of the annual items. If that was not the case, then this government, my government, is acting extremely irresponsible. However, if this was the case, then there are many non-economics that are practically full of implementation, in the time dynamics of the programme, which had ratified programmes that were evaluated, it is uneconomically and impossible to halve funds at this time for 2003, 2004. There is something wrong here, but good, and it is also clear to me that there are no real programmes and that "one grate" of this money will be spent on public money only for the ongoing operation of the gradual closure of mines, which is a serious damage to the region. There'll be very little money for restructuring, and that's too bad. The region will remain practically bare and bare, as it is now after the end of this period. However, it is clear to me that this law must be extended to the extent of the funds, because the state of the'spar of the programme' is such that we must understand it by the responsible Members, so we support the law. But there is something else I want to say in connection with Article 3 and the discharges. I'm not too much of an advocate for deleting this article. Of course, I also advocated that we cannot turn this law against the roofing law on working relations. But the Labour Relations Act is by [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Article 109 is poorly recorded. This time, the employer's money will go from public money to public funds. And through the restructuring programme, new jobs and jobs will be made possible through public funds, re-employment of certain parts of people. And honestly, in this case, we need to talk about retirement. They're not going to take away the employees from the employer, they're going to go from the country. It is true, however, that it would not be acceptable for us to make such a precedent and run it over at the first test of the labour law. And, after all, if we have a pale light on the discharges that go up to such heights and are also paid out of public funds, then we have no moral right or will to take that little worker away somehow. We'll support the marriage. In particular, I would like to ask you, Zasavci, to open up slightly more economic potential under this law, and to spend less money simply for "hand-to-hand" which is taking place under this programme, otherwise this extension would not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-25.ana.u246	We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We'll move on to a decision. No amendments were tabled to the draft law, and the second hearing was concluded. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, I ask the Secretary of State whether there have been any inconsistencies? The law is ready for decision so that the National Assembly on the Law will take its full decision. Please take your seats. I am putting the law to a full vote. We're voting. Of the 53 present there are 49 for and none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We don't have much work left to do, we've got 8 and 9 ahead of us. At 8. PERFORMANCE OF THE PERIOD WILL BE AVAILABLE TEXTS. First, we will move to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the law on specific conditions for the registration of property rights in individual parts of the building in the land book shall be confirmed." We're voting. 56 present, 53 for, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the text of this law has been officially refined by the assembly. We will now decide on the decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the Law on Payments. We're voting. We are voting on the approval of the official consolidated text of the Law on Payments. It's a state council confirmation. 54 present, 45 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the National Assembly has confirmed the officially consolidated text of the Law on Payments. We're going to test the officially refined text of the medical service law. We're voting. We are voting on the approval of the official consolidated text of the Medical Service Act. 56 present, 48 for, 1 up. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of this law. We confirm the officially purified text of the law on the fund for financing the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from this nuclear power plant. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the confirmation of the purified text of the law. 57 present, 46 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I understand we've confirmed that. We still have confirmation of the official consolidated text of the law on radiation protection and nuclear safety. We're voting on confirmation. We are voting on the confirmation of this consolidated text of the law. 56 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it that this officially refined text has been confirmed. And we have another decision on this point, a decision on the decision, a consolidated text of the law on the purified text of the law on the correction of wrongs. We're voting. The official text of the law on the correction of the wrongs shall be confirmed, and this final decision shall be as set out in this item on the agenda. 55 in attendance, 45 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of this law. We have also concluded this last point with this. With the latter, colleagues and colleagues, we will decide on the mandate-holder matters. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will first consider the proposals for the decisions of the election in court. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to our National Assembly on the election to judicial office at the District Court in Maribor and the District Court in Maribor. Excuse me? The proposal was addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the president want a word? He doesn't want to. They want the word - representatives of the parliamentary groups have not signed up for the word, so we will move on to the decision-making process. First, we will, colleagues and colleagues, decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial office of Mrs Iva Srednik to the district court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a decision to elect Mrs Iva Meditnik as a judge. 52 present, 46 for and none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has accepted the proposal. We are moving on to the last decision at this session, to decide on the motion for decisions on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Zlatka Repolusk to the court seat of the District Court in Maribor. We vote on the election of Mrs Zlatka Repolusk to the judiciary. 56 present, 49 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] The proposed decision was adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and thus the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all for your cooperation. Have a nice evening, as long as it's left! Thank you very much.
