ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u1	Good morning, good day to you all! I want a good and successful day's work! Today we will continue the 27th session, which we interrupted yesterday after the end of point 1. Today there will be several colleagues and colleagues absent from the work of the National Assembly, namely: Juri, Battelli, Dr. Brejc, Horvat, Partljič, Petan, Peterle, Pucko, colleague Vizjak, Kavčič, from 17:00 onwards colleague Podobnik, to begin the meeting of colleague Lavrinc, after 3 p.m. there will be no colleague of Marsic, colleague mag. Kramberger will be missing at the beginning of the meeting, after 3 p.m. by colleague Tanko and colleague Ašić from 5 p.m. So I think after this notice we can move on to 2. Agenda item - First of all, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to public procurement laws. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of fourteen Members, with their first-signed colleague Visiak, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate today. I will first give my word to the government representative to further explain the bill [[He asked for 10 minutes.]] and I invite him to give additional reasons for the proposal of the law on amendments and additions to the law on public procurement. Director of the Bureau, please, Mr. Igor Soltes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr President! Thank you for your word. You have before you a bill amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act. So it's the first consideration of the law that we've been waiting for a while. Initially, I must say that the history of the adoption or preparation of this law is quite long, more than one year, because the ideas of how to go extensively into these changes were different and changed. Initially, if you remember, as we have said many times before, the first tendency was to make the most urgent changes to those articles which in practice constituted the biggest obstacle to the adoption of the law. However, once a draft has been made, there has been an initiative to make wider changes, so also those directly related to compliance with the acquis of the European Union. In doing so, I would like to point out that, at that time, the decision was to make only the most urgent changes, but not the whole change in the law, especially because, as you know, the European Union is preparing a new directive from this area, combining the so-called classical sector, goods, services and construction work, into a single directive and a so-called infrastructure part in its directive. For this reason, we were convinced that it was better to wait for the new directives and then to enter into a new law. However, I must say that the Commission of the European Union has asked all associate Member States to harmonise their legislation by this year with existing directives, which must be said that some are more than ten years old, that practice has largely passed them. Even at our explicit request to introduce certain solutions offered by the new directives into the law, we did not run into, if I say so, hearing from the European side. Of course, we have entered something in it, but perhaps further, we have entered it in this part, yes, or in a way that applies only under the value law laid down by the European Union for public calls to be published in the European press or in an official publication of the European Community. So what were the objectives that led the bill's proposer to change the law: we can divide them into three points. The first, certainly a very important point both for the domestic public and for domestic use is, of course, the removal of those articles that have brought the most problems and obstacles in practice. This is therefore a goal that we have defined as the removal of administrative barriers. Several articles, or some changes, refer to this type of correction. Above all, practice has brought about the need to design or amend these articles. Because, as you know, public procurement has committed many contracting entities and tenderers who had a different way of concluding contracts prior to the adoption of legislation in this area, or if I say entry into property law relations by the state of the state of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of origin. And for this reason, this law, which you are amending, has produced quite something, if I say in connotations, stress, especially business problems, and for this reason the professional public, both on the side of the tenderers and contracting authorities, has shown that there is a need for urgent, rapid changes to certain provisions. The second part of an important set of objectives refers, of course, to the abolition or harmonisation and harmonisation of this law with the directives of the European Union. As has already been said, it is a matter of alignment with existing directives, which is of course not the best solution, but of course it is the only one at this time. By law, of course, we have tried to make all the current changes that we have had before the amendment phase of the law, or the amendment and amendment of the law, available and, of course, we have taken full account of them. The last important element in these objectives, however, is to update or simplify public procurement procedures before I can explain them in a little more detail, especially here we have the possibility of electronic procurement. It is also proposed to combine and access to public procurement data in accordance with legislation governing the requirement for accessibility of public data, including by means of the publication of tenders, or to be sent for publication at the Public Procurement Office portal. The second segment, which is extremely important in this electronic work, relates to electronic commerce itself. This is one possibility of communicating between contracting entities and tenderers to communicate electronically, i.e. with electronic offers and, of course, with contracting entities and tenderers, to communicate electronically, with electronic documentation. Here, of course, we expect something from the outset, if I say, logistical problems, mainly due to equipment, both contracting entities and tenderers, but the practice comparable in the European Union shows that important effects have been achieved in this area, especially when we are talking about so-called low-value orders, where several applications and programmes are already being prepared to simplify this part of the process. What I would like to mention is that an electronic auction is being introduced as an important novelty. It's a relatively novelty. And in contrast, I'm going to say, from classic auctions, of course, this electronic auction is auctioned down. And it is the fact that the contracting authority has the opportunity to invite those who have submitted tenders in a restricted or open procedure to submit tenders below also in an electronic auction, which, of course, must be fully automated, in short, to exclude this human factor, and in this part it is a matter of obtaining or giving the tenderers the opportunity for another round of offers, i.e. another round of downsizing the offer price or criteria, if I simplify the matter. So if I go to what is, in fact, the most important and necessary for practice, that if I divide just a few major sets or some substantial substantive changes, which of course will mean a very important leap or important contribution to facilitating the lives of both the tenderers and the contracting authorities. And if I start with those essential circuits. The notion of a contracting entity, as you know, is still, I'll say, a problem in our practice. Above all, I am speaking here in the case of individuals of private law in which, I will say, the state or, of course, the local community has invested or a certain capital or has the possibility of certain management Here, of course, our current definition of the contracting entity is wider than is required in the European Union, and with these changes, the term of the contracting authority is narrowed down in a way that excludes that part of the article that talked about so-called connected persons, which the legislation itself did not actually define in the best way and for this reason we had a number of problems in practice. What is extremely important is, in a different way, a procedure for demonstrating the status conditions for recognition of competence. In this part, of course, it is an important set to simplify the process. Therefore, the contracting authority does not always need to require a set of documents and evidence as required by the current regulation. So whether we're building highways or building smaller ones or smaller orders. For this reason, it is an important simplification. Then we reduce our hands below the thresholds. Small-value orders are also important, where, I will say, we are simplifying the process and thus trying to achieve one important thing, this is the rationalisation of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Director of the Procurement Office, Mr. Soltes. The debate will now be followed by a debate on the groups of Members. On behalf of the Novi Slovenije Group, she will first present her views to her colleague Dr. Andrej Bajuk, a colleague of Pohorec. First, Dr. Bayuk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The regulation of public procurement must pursue certain objectives such as cost-effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency in the use of public funds. Ensuring open and complete competition between tenderers, preventing corruption and thus ensuring equality and non-discrimination between contracting parties. By meeting all of those objectives, ensuring the trust of taxpayer citizens. However, the scope of public procurement is also governed by strong pressure from tenderers to draw up rules that would allow for equal access to public procurement for all. Economic operators do not want to be evicted from this money source, which is an important part of the market in some sectors. In recent times, public procurement has increasingly exceeded local and even national borders and thus become an important part of international economic practice. It is therefore understandable that economic operators and the general public are increasingly interested in finalising this area. This should take into account the fact that there are many high-tech industries, especially telecommunications and, in particular, medical equipment, almost entirely dependent on the public procurement market. According to some data, the share of this market is reaching 60% in information technology and 30% in construction. Any major movement in this market is extremely important for these industries and has unpredictable consequences for their development. It chooses such or different technological solutions or individual operators in areas such as telecommunications, energy, water supply, medical equipment, signalling may have dramatic consequences for the development of certain technologies. In some cases, public procurement may have a decisive impact on the market situation, including in the context of the transnational market. We must therefore also listen to the needs of the economy and ensure the conditions under which open competition will prevail. This is in line with the market economy and this is what most entrepreneurs want most. For the first time in 1997, countries in transition, which met with the regulation of public contracts, Slovenia has been able to follow European guidelines since the beginning, when this was not necessary because of our association. Today, however, we find that the resistance to satisfactory procurement arrangements in Slovenia was immeasurably large. In the adoption of the second law, this is now a valid Public Procurement Act 1, in 2000, the applicants argued that the law is fully in line with European directives. Since I had the opportunity to participate in and watch all this process from the executive branch at the time set for the preparation of a series of sub-laws to this law, I soon came to the attention of independent experts that the Public Procurement Act 1 is not really well aligned with the directives of the European Union. I was aware that high-level officials in the European Commission were uneasy to note that their proposals made to the draft or proposal for this law were not then taken into account. Our representatives simply rejected them with an explanation that our legal order does not allow for full harmonisation. Of course, the wider Slovenian public did not know this. Therefore, as soon as the opportunity and function of the chairman of the budgetary and other public finances commission was reached, I made sure that this working body was adopted on 25 October 2001 by the National Assembly itself, which reads as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and submit, as soon as possible, amendments to the law on public procurement to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The three should take into account, in addition to the comments already made, the proposals of the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procurement procedures of October 2001. Several more times we called on the government to reach a conclusion. Mr. Minister of Finance, then Mr. Minister of Finance Anton Rop, nothing. Thus, it has been a long year and a half to deal with the law on public procurement today. Today, these same proponents, the government's representatives write down peacefully, and I quote here: "It is essential to approach the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act 1 in order to establish the competent European institutions on the partial non-compliance of the Public Procurement Act 1 with the Directives. In drafting the amendments to this work, the applicant followed the European Commission's 2001 comment on the shortcomings of the Public Procurement Act 1 in relation to individual directives and so on." But most importantly, independent domestic experts have once again made me aware that the Public Procurement Act is also 1A, what we are starting to consider today is that it is not fully in line with the current European guidelines. I would therefore like a government response today: Are the current constituents of this proposal in the National Assembly, or have they shown it to experts from the European Union, and can they really ensure that it is in line with the guidelines? It should also be pointed out that, in this law, compliance with the guidelines of the European Union is not the only criterion for its appropriateness. The European Union is particularly interested in large-value contracts, over €5 million. The question is therefore very important: Does this law really lead to better public procurement objectives that the European Union will not take care of in Slovenia and I mentioned them at the beginning of this debate? Our assessment is that the Public Procurement Act 1A is still not a good enough basis for the right path towards these objectives. We also note that the applicant does not follow the findings and proposals of the State Audit Commission, which, as the highest contracting authority, draws attention to the lack of legislation also since the implementation of the Public Procurement Act 1 in all its annual reports. However, the subordination of certain procedures allowing for the non-transparent and uneconomic behaviour of the contracting authorities is also constantly noted by the tenderers and their associations. This proposal actually solves a lot in the practice of the problems observed, but it is nevertheless insufficient to address the following issues, which will necessarily need to be addressed in the process of adopting this law. Experts in this area advised the New Slovenia Group and gave some opinions that we can draw from the following findings: First time. Exceptions to which the law does not apply should, as far as possible, be defined in one place and thus provided for a more transparent system. On the other hand, at the abstract level, draw the clearest limit between the application and non-use of the Public Procurement Act1. Another time. The relationship between public procurement under international agreements and public procurement under public procurement law should also be regulated. At the same time, the relationship between the rules on the use of funds from programmes such as Sapard, Ispa and cohesion and structural funds needs to be verified. Third time. The current Public Procurement Act allows for too wide opportunities for the government to exclude certain contracts from procurement procedures. As soon as it comes to a contract which, according to the Government, is of a confidential nature, it can be eliminated, thereby reaching into the system established by the legislator by the law on public procurement. In addition to the fact that such exclusions are often inappropriate, purchases on this basis can be costly, as there are no calls for proposals, and such arrangements are contrary to European law. We therefore propose that in this area the law be brought into line with the directives. Fourth time. Under European law, a contracting entity which confers special or exclusive rights in the field of the provision of services to a non-contracting entity must undertake to act in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of nationality. Whenever it comes to activities under monopoly conditions, the authority granting such a monopoly must thus prevent its recipient from abuse of his monopoly. Public procurement rules also extend to persons who do not carry out their activities under conditions of competition, even if they are private property entities. Such an obligation must necessarily include the law of the contracting authorities. Fifth. The normal public procurement regime in the Republic of Slovenia does not properly standard the legal relations between contracting authorities. Since some of the transactions concluded by contracting authorities are excluded from the public procurement system, the question they are dealing with is answered sporadicly, depending on the circumstances and the case. All of this, on the one hand, often constitutes an unacceptable intervention by the State into the market economy, and on the other, we are witnessing an almost chaotic situation when public entities establish legal entities solely for the purpose of carrying out certain activities, but later they must not directly cooperate with them as they are committed to public procurement rules. There is also the practice of the European Court of Justice in this area, which needs to be properly translated into legal standards. Six. In accordance with the needs of local communities and other contracting entities other than direct budgetary users, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of providing conditions for the initiation of the procedure, in particular with regard to the provision of funds for longer periods of time, thereby ensuring the timely implementation of the procedures, in particular in the case of the use of development funds. It's a week. Particular attention shall be paid to the arrangements for the conditions for participation, competence and conditions for the recognition of competence. In the practice so far, there are clear answers to the ambiguities identified. In particular, it is necessary to verify the need to submit all evidence already in the tendering process and the need to identify tenderers in certain legal situations. In this regard, it is also appropriate to propose to simplify business as much as possible by allowing certain documents from public records to be obtained by the contracting authority itself if he so wishes. By the way, most of the contracting authorities are not obliged to pay judicial or administrative fees. Eight. It is imperative to regulate the rules for the possibility of initiating, and in particular to conduct the procedure with negotiation as a procedure which is characterised by the fact that it does not provide the necessary level of information to the public. The contracting authorities themselves shall decide on the number of invitations and the procedures shall be carried out without legally laid down rules. This procedure in the present and proposed arrangements does not provide the necessary transparency. The proposal for a law is totally inadequate in this part, as it does not further normalise the procedure itself. Nine. In particular, it is necessary to set out the content of the necessary tendering and tender documentation, since the provisions of Article 23 of the Public Procurement Act 1 are insufficient. However, the proposal does not address these issues in such a way as to clarify the minimum necessary volume of tender documentation in different procedures. Given that this area is crucial for the conduct of procedures, and taking into account the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not issued the necessary sub-legislative legislation since the entry into force of the current law, despite constant warnings from the State Audit Commission and participants in procurement procedures. Ten years. The proposed solutions are not fully followed by the applicant's intention to arrange for an effective electronic submission of tenders. Eleventh time. By amending the award rules in the case of a single successful tender, it is not possible to eliminate the possibility of abuse of contracting entities who would award an order to the tenderer by adjusting the terms and measures and thus ensure the possibility of obtaining one single tender. In the process of enacting the law, consideration will have to be given to the possibilities to ensure that such arrangements are lifted. Twelve. Inadequate and sub-normary remains the area of low-value procurement. It also takes into account the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by amending the law on the implementation of the budget, can now increase the amount from which a public tender is to be made, with an unlimited increase of 10 million tolars and thus lower the level of accessibility to public procurement. In this procurement segment, contracting entities are unreasonably autonomous as proposed also with regard to the selection of tenderers, the use of conditions for cooperation and the definition of criteria for selecting the most favourable bidder. Given the large number of procedures proposed, the solutions proposed are not appropriate. Thirteenth time. The draft law does not remove any conflict in the regulation of the public tender under the Public Procurement Act 1.A and the rules governing the course under the Construction Act, paragraphs 43 and 44. Both terminology and content. There will therefore be a need for mutual coordination. The same goes for some of the standards in the law on space regulation, such as the award of built public goods under Public Procurement Act 1, which is not touched by the law at all. Fourteenth time. It is also appropriate to consider institutional solutions to the draft law in view of the latest decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to abolish certain offices, as the bill even extends certain powers of the Public Procurement Office, which it wishes to abolish or reshape. To this end, it is necessary to obtain the appropriate interpretations of the applicant and, above all, to check the possibility of rationalising public procurement also through the possible establishment of a public procurement agency with certain elements of independence from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Fifteenth. Finally, the proposal for a novel on the regulation of concessions on the one hand is inappropriate and, on the other hand, contrary to European law. The proposal of Article 133 of the novelty strengthens the application of the rules of tender from all concessions only to construction concessions. In this part, the proposal is not in itself contrary to European law, but it means that a number of concessions, in particular concessions of services which do not have a specific legal basis, can be awarded without a call for tender. Therefore, we propose that Article 133 also makes sense to grant other concessions until the concession law is passed. Without such a basis, a wide range of concessions can be granted legally, even legally, without a public invitation to tender. That's the kind of thing we warned you about yesterday. This is not only inappropriate but directly unacceptable. In addition, the proposed standards in construction concessions are sometimes confusing. Thus, it is clear from the proposal to amend Article 133(1) that the concession of construction is no longer different from that of the payment for construction being replaced by the right to use the facility, but by the fact that the concessionaire has the right to use the facility, which could lead us to a totally unreasonable position when the concession of construction would be that public contract where the contractor would clearly have, in addition to the right to payment, as the definition does not exclude, also the right to exploit the building. If I simplify it a little bit, the concessionaire would have the right to double payment in contrast to the contracting authority, which has the right to pay once the work done. For the first time, because it goes according to the definition of a public contract and the essential element of a public contract is its repayment. And secondly, because the concessionaire has the right to exploit the building. In this part, the proposal is flawed according to our assessment and must be aligned with European law, which is also true for other shortcomings and errors in the determination of value [[First paragraph]] , choice of procedure [[third paragraph]] , an unjustified distinction between public and other entities as regards the performance as subcontractors, and that is paragraph 6. Finally, I would like to stress in particular that the National Assembly must pay particular attention in this law to sanctions against its non-implementation or criminal provisions. I therefore expect the Court of Auditors to draw up its own opinion on these provisions, namely that it will review the Public Procurement Act 1.A from the point of view of the infringements that occur most frequently and draw attention to them. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] in his last annual report. [[...]] Our call for a contribution to the regulation of sanctions also applies to the supervision of the Ministry of Finance and the government office of the Republic of Slovenia for the prevention of corruption. And that is why I propose a decision to the National Assembly. Proposal for a Decision: "The Council of State comments and proposals for a more complete and comprehensive regulation of the sanctioning of incorrect implementation of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act 1.A, based on the practice of monitoring the implementation of the Public Procurement Act1, shall be submitted within 30 days by the Court of Auditors, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the Prevention of Corruption and the Budget Control Service of the Ministry of Finance." We have hard work ahead of us, but a change to the law now in force is essential for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u5	Before I give the floor to my colleague Pohorc, who will present the views of the DeSUS Group, let me remind you that, after we have adopted the new Rules of Procedure, we have already rejected the proposal to vote on the conclusions on the legislative process that we have now. I have not seen your proposal yet, but I believe that, as last time, I will have to reject my colleague's proposal this time. But this is on the business committee, so the business commission will also say its word on this. My colleague Pohorec now has the floor for the views of the DeSUS Group, followed by his colleague Grošelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, President. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which is before us in the first reading, is, according to our assessment, a suitable basis for further discussion by considering that further amendments will need to be supplemented and amended. Slovenia has a rather short history in this area, since the first law was passed only in 1997, which has shown in this relatively short time that changes and additions are needed since public procurement, as one of the other normal business events, is always the subject of current public debates and also for the media. There are always doubts in the procurement process, suspicions about corruption, bribery, privileges and the like. It is therefore necessary to define this issue more thoroughly and more qualitatively by law. We are in an open economy, in open competition, where all tenderers, all interested in the procurement process, should have an equal and equal opportunity, in access to these contracts, on an equal footing; however, the competitive capacity and reliability of the tenderers should apply. The current law is in practice, i.e., on a certain basis, it is insufficiently clear, inaccurate and allows the possibility of such hidden traps, which are always particularly critical in the public eye. Public procurement must be the subject of normal business developments, not the subject of privileges, suspicions, floods and what is happening today. New changes and additions bring good enough changes to the procurement process. The law specifically defines entities in public procurement, in particular who is the contracting authority, who is the tenderer and their quality conditions, that they are identified as tenderers and contracting entities by law. The procurement procedure, I think, is sufficiently transparent and clear - the powers and tasks of all entities in public procurement procedures, specific rules in the most sensitive areas where certain irregularities, such as energy, supply, services and the like, may have occurred so far. The law lays down the terms and conditions of the tenderers, both legal, technical, human resources, financial and economic, because only by clearly setting these conditions can access those who also meet these conditions normally. Of course, it is a particularly important area for the public to work in the procurement process, so it is also possible to monitor and monitor this through the information system in the public domain. Those who consider that they have been injured as tenderers in this regard also have the opportunity to make appropriate complaints on the basis of data and evidence. The role of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which brings together all these business entities, is defined either legal and natural persons who are the only or most common tenderers in the Public Procurement System and the role of the Public Procurement Office. An important area, which is essential because of our integration into the European Union, is that we also coordinate the law with legislation in the European Union, as we will soon find ourselves in an open economic, economic market in the European Union and it will be possible, of course, for foreign suppliers to participate in the procurement process in the Republic of Slovenia, more than is already present today. The electronic way of doing business, a more modern system of public auctions, are only an update of the form of business in this area. Exceptions are set and so on, keeping statistics and so on. Our Group believes that the law is appropriate and will need to be supplemented and amended by the amendments below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Mr Grošelj will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, followed by his colleague Tanko. Please, Comrade Grošelj, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The Honourable Director of the Public Procurement Office! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 1997 the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, by adopting a law on the ratification of the European Association Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Communities, adopted an undertaking to harmonise the field of procurement with the rules of the European Community. On this basis, a new law on public procurement was adopted in 2000, which is now in force to simplify procurement procedures and to fully align the field of public procurement with the rules of the European Community. Thus, the applicable Public Procurement Act has incorporated into one law the rules of all 7 EC Directives, resulting in individual derogations from the public procurement law from the rules laid down in individual Directives. With regard to the incomplete level of compliance with EC Council Directives, the European Commission also concluded in its June 2001 opinion. The Public Procurement Act has not met all expectations, both for the professional public and for contracting authorities, tenderers and competent institutions. However, it should only be pointed out that despite the relative non-compliance with the European legal order governing public procurement at the principal level, the law on public procurement is non-discriminatory in relation to the possibility of the participation of tenderers abroad. The current Public Procurement Act is based on fundamental principles, such as the principles of ensuring competition between tenderers, the principle of transparency and the principle of equality, the principle of cost-effectiveness and the efficient use of public funds, in line with the requirements of the Directives. And in each Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the invitation to tender also presents the possibility of participating in the invitation to tender to foreign tenderers, but it is concluded that the public procurement market in our country is still largely limited to the participation of tenderers in public tenders established in Slovenia. The almost two-year application of the Public Procurement Act has in practice highlighted those dilemmas and obstacles in the application of the law, which need to be removed and thus ensure that the basic principles of the public procurement system can be respected. It is therefore necessary to adapt the legislative framework to both European guidelines and the elimination of excessive barriers to public procurement procedures, which is the main reason for the necessary amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that the objectives of points 1 and 2 of the proposed amendment of the law are very well presented and outlined, since the proposed amendment of the law constitutes a contribution both to the direct and direct elimination of administrative obstacles and thus to the amendment and addition of those articles which in practice constitute an obstacle to the effective implementation of public procurement. With regard to the objectives of the implementation of public procurement procedures through one authority and the placement of electronic procurement in practice, we believe that the scope of public procurement can also be developed through the proper establishment of institutions that can contribute to a better impact of public procurement, both at both substantive and formal level. We also accept the assessment that the advantages of centralising public procurement at national level, as well as the possible negative consequences of restricting the market, should certainly be carefully considered, while ensuring that the assumptions set out in this part of the law are met. We are confident that today's debate and the views of other parliamentary groups will raise some other issues and that the debate itself of Members and Members will contribute to the elimination and confusion and uncertainty of the current legislation. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we believe that it is right for us to have a general or first reading of this Act and that the views and suggestions of the proposer of the law are such as to answer a number of open questions and that the already tabled discussion of the Law on Public Procurement provides an appropriate basis for the next stage of the procedure. We will therefore support the first reading of this law in the parliamentary group and thus give the opportunity to draw up a real-quality law on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Groschel. Mr Tanko will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He will be followed by a presentation by his colleague Podobnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! Today we have before us changes and additions to the Public Procurement Act, a law that directs the use of a large part of public funds collected in state accounts, municipalities, institutions, institutions, agencies, funds and other types of other institutions and used for an extremely wide range of purposes. In fact, all works, purchases, services and investments should be carried out in accordance with the applicable public procurement law. We were expecting a new law, at least as predicted, and we have received a novelty that we hope is truly in line with the acquis of the European Union. We hope that the attached declaration is not just an optical supplement, as in some of the previous cases, when we have already had to correct and re-ordinate the law in very short time with the guidelines of the European Union. So far, practice has shown that many mistakes and omissions have been made in the implementation of this law, unusually large. There must be more than one cause, and the key are the following: At the time of the adoption of the Public Procurement Act in 1997, the current practice of issuing works was extremely severe, since it broke up in a negotiated manner and introduced a much more complex but more objective and transparent way. This prescribed method was not acceptable for all, since it largely excluded and restricted subjective decisions and eliminated backstage bargaining. The process has become more transparent and has taken place more in the public eye. Clearly, not everyone accepted the new way of working and that many continued the old practice that permitted many things. It is true that public investment, services and purchases have often taken place as public funds have been misused not only for the purposes set out in public plans but also for a variety of other purposes and even for the purpose of charging private accounts. Many refused to give up this privilege, and it was more appropriate to challenge the provisions of the law. The Executive Authority itself, the first to be called for implementing and overseeing the enforcement of legislation and the rational, efficient and transparent use of public funds, has made efforts to implement this law extremely uninterested. According to the Court of Auditors’ reports, which audited the final accounts of the budgets, the audits found significant or major infringements in the field of public procurement. Extremely large amounts of funds have been spent beyond calls, without programmes, without contracts, without adequate insurance and anything else. Large amounts were disbursed and spent only on the basis of the personal decision of employees and officials, as audit reports are known for cases where the funds were indicated even without contracts. There were almost no sanctions for offenders, no penalties. Almost no one was responsible for the illegal conduct committed, neither as a responsible professional nor as a leader of the contract, nor did anyone take political responsibility. This was a clear message to all the lower levels that the application of the law was not mandatory. In the audits, the Court of Auditors identified irregularities, informed auditors, requested response reports, but there were no significant changes. However, in their advocacy and response messages, the auditors have always referred to non-life solutions to the Public Procurement Act and have forgotten their duties and obligations. Of course, there are bad solutions in this law, but all such reasoning and reasoning was intended solely to cover up other reasons. The non-implementation of the law is particularly controversial because part of public funds designated for certain purposes is not accessible to all interested parties under the same conditions. This allows for a completely different implementation of budgetary policies and plans from those adopted. This also strengthens the power and omnipotence of bureaucracy. Both public procurement laws, the applicable Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Audit Act, are unnecessarily burdensome for both investors and tenderers in certain provisions. Minor procedural and substantive deficiencies, errors that were frequently referred to by unsuccessful tenderers, have not often affected the order and choice of the operator. However, they have achieved the annulment of the contract. This has led to major delays in the implementation of investment cycles, the non-use of public funds and, indeed, many have forced contracting authorities to use emergency solutions and to commit illegality. It is irresponsible of the government not to submit both laws in parallel with the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. Both marriages are inseparable. The procurement procedure shall, in the extreme case, be terminated by an audit. It should therefore be coherent and balanced. In the case of public procurement and the award of works, procedures must be designed in such a way that neither the contracting authority nor the tenderer is in favour and that they are both responsible for their decisions and for the delays they have caused. This is even more important than compliance with the European acquis. Our Group of Members has called for a general debate, as the law before us brings some significant changes that will have a significant impact on the implementation of the procurement procedure. The deadlines for the submission of tenders are very important. The proposal that the contracting authority may make by tendering in half is certainly a useful solution for both the contracting authority and the tenderer. For the first time, because they are able to complete the procurement procedures first and start using the reserved funds. However, due to significantly lower costs for the issuance of the bank guarantee and to the faster decision of the contracting authority and the clarification of the situation. An additional reduction in the time limit for the maximum contracts is also a way of publishing the contract, which is set out in the new Article 64a, although it is not clear whether it is reduced by 7 days or twice by 7 days. We certainly support these provisions. The amendment will also constitute a change to the place of publication set out in Article 53 of the novel. An important task and role shall be given to the Public Procurement Office, which will certainly require additional red tape of this office, for work that is already well under way. The Official Journal has proved to be a solid and reliable institution in these cases of publication. I do not know why nothing can be arranged differently than on the burden of the contracting authority or consumer, which this novelty brings him only an additional but not excessively high cost. It would be much more rational for the contracting authority to send a diskette to the public procurement office at the same time. It may be more appropriate to form this portal in the Official Journal, which is likely to have sufficient human resources already due to the existing performance of publishing tasks, and only a link to the Office would be further developed. It is certainly necessary to think before we make any unnecessary, not exactly cheap and not very useful steps at the time of the rationalisation of the offices. Article 15 of the novel should make it more clear that there would be no unnecessary confusion as to the timeliness of clarification. In their practice, all those who at any time prepared tenders had cases where a number of clarifications had to be made some day later than 6 days before the submission of tenders. We believe that thinking is needed and that it is not the best way to close the door, as it is likely that it is the goal to get as many quality and complete offers as possible. I do not believe that a sufficiently well-founded award of a contract is sufficiently justified under the negotiated procedure without prior publication and after prior publication, since there is nowhere to be specified what and when it is considered that the original subject matter of the contract and the content of the tender documentation are not substantially changed. I believe that tolerance of derogations should be provided for, both in price and in content and other criteria. It is also necessary to define what the term "emergency" means. More precisely, it is necessary to determine the award of a contract by negotiated procedure and without prior publication for disabled companies, as they can be awarded up to EUR 5 million or up to approximately EUR 1.2 billion after this procedure. These are already extremely high amounts, in particular for exceptions, and in particular if the subject matter of a contract does not constitute the main activity of such a company and only the resale or delivery of the transaction will take place to the desired contractor or subcontractor. The provider will demonstrate his qualifications with a qualified subcontractor. This solution is certainly worth serious consideration, as it can happen to us that disabled companies will not only help and complement jobs, but can even become carriers of the development of whole industries or regions.I am sure that this solution opens up too much room for manipulative behaviour and increases already such poor transparency in the conduct and management of public funds and public property. One area is certainly also the area of proof of the supplier’s competence, which, according to the new proposal, is better but much more tolerantly worked out, both to the contracting authorities and to the tenderers or to the public procurement stakeholders. Given the characteristics of the state's operation and its institutions, the law opens up a new field of opportunities for poor and irrational use of public money. The preparation of a legal basis allowing the conclusion of contracts with tenderers that have proved themselves to be in poor business so far will certainly in many cases lead to extremely unpleasant situations. I don't really understand the lawmaker, why he thinks such a tolerant approach is so important or why he let it go with the novel. The law should, in fact, adequately protect the use of public funds and prevent contracting entities from entering into contracts with risky tenderers under the cover of favourable offers. This allows and even encourages so - called friendly allocations of funds. And this solution, because it will bring many more problems than benefits, is not supported by our Group of Members. So far, too many so-called public fund-raising accidents have occurred, much to be said, even after significantly higher public funds management standards than the novels. The last two solutions I have highlighted allow for exceptional opportunities for corruption, which have been discussed in the public for some time now. They shall allow for the illegal direct connection of the public administration policy with the operators duly selected. They are opening up precisely those painful points of the Slovenian transition that some government services have recently been alerting to, for example, the Anti-Corruption Office, and some others. These two solutions, which otherwise provide a regulated area of public procurement, essentially constitute the legalisation of corruption. Consideration should also be given to penalties, both at the level and in the consistency of implementation and sanctioning. We have already seen, recently, some of the laws that concerned ordinary citizens and economic operators in particular, and when they were proposed by the majority, this is the ruling coalition that has adopted the draconian penalties. This law, which deals exclusively with the field of public administration and public procurement and the non-implementation of some often very pollutes the image of public finances, not only has a much milder penalty, but is not even implemented. I believe that we need to make a very tighter responsibility, professional and political, and also criminal, and I think it is right to make such a law, by which citizens in this area will also be equal. Of course, as with all laws for the implementation of laws, the will of the State, represented to the greatest extent by the government, is necessary. The preventive and curative behaviour of all authorities, services and offices in all areas should be significantly more effective and consistent. They haven't shown up yet. However, adjustments towards the legalisation of disputed behaviour will remove the latest tools and arguments to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Kolga Podobnik will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, followed by a fellow Master Gračner.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the area of public procurement is that sensitive activity where the public and private sectors meet. Some international research has shown in the 1990s that public procurement is also an important source of corruption in Slovenia. In 1999, the World Bank and the EBRD carried out a study that also identified the state of public procurement. The survey notes that Slovenian companies on average have to pay on an additional or informal basis more than 4% of the contract value if they wish to operate with the country. Of all the corruption perceived by Slovenian companies, there are 36% in public procurement. Similarly, a study by the Government Anti-Corruption Office notes. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party has also proposed, in coalition coordination, some additions to the Public Procurement Act, which unfortunately were not taken into account by the Finance Department in the drafting process of this Act. We had a similar experience at the Anti-Corruption Office. Our assessment is that the proposed changes will still not provide sufficient opportunities to reduce the worrying situation in the area of corruption. It is also unacceptable for us that the limits for the award of public contracts are laid down in the second law and are not fully in line with European rules. We are also wondering whether it is good for the quality preparation of the current marriage novel to have experts who have already co-formed the laws, which have proven inadequate in some areas. I myself, as an observer in the European Parliament, will pay particular attention to this particular area and then, as a assistance to the Group of Members, some of the solutions that will be, and if, in the framework of the adoption of this law, they will incorporate them into the legal matter. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the government to complement the proposed bill and to consult experts, particularly international experts, to combat corruption, before that. We have completed at least twice in the National Assembly following the adoption of the applicable law on public procurement. We are therefore wondering whether there are arguments for speed and urgency or arguments for the best possible quality solutions. In our view, it would be good for the government to prepare an international consultation on the subject of this law, on which it would also invite experts who have carried out the research already mentioned, and could also explain where the shortcomings of the proposed novel are. Because if we adopt an expertly under-completed law, then we can point out today that in a few years' time, there will be a new bill or amendments to the bill, and the caravan of Slovenian public contracts will go on. I would like to conclude with a section in the law that speaks of so-called anti-corruption provisions. Article 14 in force was sub-titled "Prohibition of Bribery", whereas the new proposal contains this in a very large Article 40, which is sub-titled "Status conditions for recognition of competence". Let this debate be an opportunity to re-emphasize anachronism, irritability or superficiality as enshrined in the current coalition agreement. I have warned at least three times about this anachronism as a coalition Member. In fact, on page 65 of the current coalition contract signed in 2000, which refers to which tax-free expenditure should be included in the new corporate tax law, which therefore states that the tax-free expenditure should also be bribes; this is contained in the existing coalition contract. So is it anachronism or is it awkward or what it is? Is it a translation error? In our view, the bribe cannot be interpreted as an expense in the business of companies; bribes are essentially different forms of crime. When we went to look at the genetics of that word or this anachronism in the coalition contract, we could find some reasons for that. The first could be to translate some of the older European laws, perhaps Austrian ones. Because some of the older European laws have tolerated bribes from public servants, such as foreign civil servants, as a cost to businesses. For the bribery of foreign civil servants until the OECD Convention was adopted was not persecutable under national law. However, the Coalition Treaty was written in 2000 and in 1999 the new criminal law had already criminalized such acts and we therefore consider that the bribe cannot be interpreted as payments for economic activities such as commissions, rebates, discounts and so on. We therefore propose once again that this word be removed from the coalition treaty as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. A colleague of mags. Gračner will present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group, followed by his colleague Vnučec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u14	Dear President, representatives of the government, fellow Members! On behalf of the LDS Group, I will present our position on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement. In the Republic of Slovenia, public procurement is governed by two laws, namely the Public Procurement Act, so-called ZJN1, and the Public Procurement Audit Act. The Public Procurement Act 1 defines and sets out the mandatory conduct of contracting entities and tenderers in the award of public contracts. For the basis of the Directives of the European Union governing those areas, the legislation has public procurement of goods, public service contracts, public works contracts, public contracts in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications fields. It should be noted that the procurement rules laid down by the Directives, even in the opinion of the competent authorities of the European Commission, are not fully complied with in the current public procurement law. On the other hand, it is appropriate to establish that certain parts of the law under the directives are more strictly regulated, particularly in the case of contracts that are of value before the European thresholds, making procurement difficult, as it places unnecessary administrative corrections and problems on both the contracting authorities and the tenderers, which in absolute terms reduce the impact of public procurement. The proposal for amendments and additions, in our opinion, follows the following objectives: firstly - the comprehensive implementation of the cited European directives into our legal order, this is in the law of public procurement, secondly - the removal of administrative barriers, this requires rationalisation and simplification of procedures under the European Union authorities, and thirdly - the gradual introduction of an electronic form of procurement as a material, technical and cost-effective tool. In our view, in the Government's proposal for amendments and the addition of the JJN1, it is necessary to define the concept of the contracting authority even more precisely and consistently, namely, all entities which are bound as contracting entities and to respect the rules of procurement. Furthermore, it is a consistent definition of terms, such as the right, appropriate, acceptable offer, which has a direct impact on the application of the negotiated procedure with or without prior publication. There is also a need for a more precise definition of the concept of a contract for the award of public contracts, in particular in the light of public procurement of goods. The proposal for amendments to the law is a novelty, a so-called framework agreement, which can be used below European thresholds, and therefore this area needs to be defined more precisely. There is also a need to ensure that the Directive is taken more closely into account when laying down rules on the definition of technical elements of public procurement. It is also necessary to add a provision governing the functioning of compliance with the requirements for quality management and assurance, in order to comply consistently with the principle of equal treatment of tenderers. Furthermore, the proposed provision concerning the award report as one of the important elements of ensuring transparency, stating that it should also include information on tenderers and candidates qualified for reasons. As mentioned, the legislative proposal regulates an electronic procurement approach and as an instrument of electronic auction which is not yet in force in the European regime is defined in the proposal for new directives. It must therefore be laid down that it applies only below European thresholds and should be regulated more precisely by a sub-legislative act. The proposal also addresses public procurement in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications fields. It is therefore necessary to add that public procurement in the water field in relation to the directives also includes competitions. With regard to the preparation of technical specifications in that field, Article 116a provides where it is necessary to add that the technical specifications are defined by reference to European specifications, if and where they exist. These interventions in the draft law are necessary to ensure the consistency of the legal text and the formal text, as well as the actual alignment with the directives, to which we are bound by the Association Agreement and therefore one of the conditions for admission to full membership. In fact, it means that it is possible to use the law as an instrument or tool for the execution of public procurement in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments also concern the regulation of the status of the Public Procurement Office, which needs to ensure all appropriate autonomy and independence, but should still remain a government service. One option is to transform the Public Procurement Office into a public procurement agency. Our Group considers that, while the law is suitable for further consideration, it will need to be further improved with certain amendments by including all the amendments mentioned above.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Gracner. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. He's been followed by a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that the essence of the new law cannot be exaggerated, the ineffective formalisation of budgetary spending procedures as the award of public contracts, which has proved to be a counter-effect, but rather the establishment of important market regulation mechanisms in the basic way of the market economy. Finally, we can forget that the rules in this area are not intended to control the work of individual state officials, for which we have other institutions, and that we are misinterpreting and creating the atmosphere and even the law comes from the assumption that all civil servants are potential criminals. There's another problem. The problem is the stepmother's attitude towards the state administration and its staffing. This should not be able to choose contractors by reason of common sense, by market logic of the cheapest, by quality logic and by any other logic. In view of the fact that this is already the fourth regulation, we hope that the government has encountered common sense and has been able to identify and incorporate arguments and problems into the new law. We forget that the purpose of regulating this matter must be to use public funds rationally and not literally to process perfectly, which in a specific case may mean that a particular process cannot even be carried out due to all procedural obstacles. In addition, the lack of consistency of legislation in this area and of sub-legislative acts allows for different interpretations and thus complaints at all levels, which in many cases prevents the selection of the tenderer for a long period of time. The courts are also swamped with complaints, and the country itself has made a significant contribution to the increase in judicial backlogs. We need to be aware that the market is increasingly taking steps forward, we can also see it in justice, and it has organised itself in the opposite direction in a monopoly. And the purpose of the law should be exactly the opposite. Enhance transparency and competitiveness. Therefore, it might also be necessary to consider that funds, for example for investments in the country, are collected on the common budget item and thus reduce the costs of procedures, or to follow as much as possible the rules of the foreign country where this is better regulated, or to simply prescribe them, because unfortunately, we are always governed by a very reverse logic. That what quiet souls can also be copied, we do not prescribe, but we rediscover America where there is no need for it. We also believe that the area of concessions is unregulated, and it must be regulated in this law, not left to different laws. And there is an even more present monopoly in this area. And it might even be worth considering changing the title of the law into a law on public procurement and concessions. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we will support the draft proposal at this stage, and we expect the proposer to take note of the comments, because otherwise we will not support the law in further procedures if it does not follow the European guidelines and the guidelines already mentioned here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Mr Peče, as the last representative of the Slovenian National Party's Group, will present her views, and we will then go to the debate of Members and Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u18	Your Honors are here! We assess that the law on final regulation of public procurement does not regulate. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also aware of this when it even speaks in its explanation, or states that the law has a period of time and that it will need to be amended very quickly in accordance with the developments on the European Union legal market. So we could signify that today we are considering and in the coming days we will be adopting a law with a deadline or a time limit. While we see some positive features of the bill in the national party, I will only point out two. Firstly, this is a shortening of deadlines and with this kind of - I emphasise, some kind - of more effective moves, and secondly as a positive feature mainly electronic ordering. However, more important in the national party is the assessment or exposure of those positions that we estimate could lead to negative consequences when the law is passed. We would like to highlight the dilemmas on which we want to respond by the proponents or representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of the law itself, we have stopped for a long time in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Unfortunately, we have already encountered some concerns in the original articles, which, according to our assessment, do not lead to transparency or even more, allow for the lack of transparency of business. Article 2a, where the contracting authority is designated, indicates, under the indents, public undertakings, public economic institutions and other public entities, and in the following paragraph, talks about this - I will read: "... which, in order to provide public sector needs and not to carry out profitable activities, the Republic of Slovenia shall establish." However, the fact is that the situation in the Slovenian public market or capital market is quite confusing and that economic operators established on the one hand by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the State, Republic of Slovenia, or local communities, and these companies have a double status: the status of public economic services regulated in Article 2a or in the proposal of the new Article 2.a, while at the same time the same companies bear the capital code d.d., which already has the primary and sole purpose of providing, creating capital or profit under the Act on Economic Companies. Well, according to our assessment, it is, of course, contradictory to Article 2 itself, or to the content of Article 2, which allows the form of the contracting authority to all economic areas or property issues and the purpose of establishing such an undertaking. It follows that, in our opinion, the whole law is inconsistent. Because the fact is that the basic element of the contracting authority's definition is not true. On this basis, we estimate that the law should be defined more clearly in the general provisions, i.e. in Article 2, the speech and the substantive references of later articles. We also lack in the law a more important or substantively profitable and stronger definition of criminal provisions. For the drafter himself also notes in the first part of the first sentence of Article 104: "In this chapter the amendments are intended primarily for editorial corrections" and then continue. In the National Party, we estimate that the field of public procurement is one of those topics of our society, which in the past has mostly been the subject of criticism of corruption and business irregularities and of various political or family ties. It follows from this that the practice of action in this area in the past in our country should dictate to us - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proponent of the said law - that it in particular strengthens sanctions and not only approaches to some kind of liberalisation, which, according to our assessment, unfortunately also from practice, will help to develop, we fear, corruption. In any case, we would like to touch other content sets. First of all, the authority of the contracting authority. According to our assessment, his request for tender conditions is, of course, overly lax, because the fact is that during this period of development of the transition of our country and related persons, opening the option of free or free choice of required documentation, at least as referred to in Article 43, increases the possibility of abuse, according to our assessment. Again, we come from the past actions of actors in this area. The other three demands, I hope to be able to intervene later.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much, buddy. By presenting the views of your Group, we have exhausted this first part of this point, which will now be followed by a debate between Members and Members. First of all, a colleague of Dr. Bajuk, who is currently absent, has asked for the floor, so I would like to invite a colleague of Silvo Crnugelj, a colleague of Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, when adopting amendments and supplementing the law on public procurement, which will bring the law into line with European Union law, we have made special efforts to regulate the special status of public procurement without issuing a tender to a certain level for disabled companies. These companies are concerned with the training and employment function of those who are at risk and more difficult to employ in the labour market and are thus very poorly flexible. This is precisely why we considered it extremely important to incorporate into the law the possibility of facilitating the procurement of these companies, without compromising our compliance with European legislation and maintaining the non-discrimination of the tenderers and the transparency of public procurement. The new European public procurement legislation introduces environmental and social aspects in which the regulation of disabled companies can also be included. The new European guidelines to be adopted in 2004 also provide Member States with the right to participate in the procurement procedures for disabled companies or to award contracts for such undertakings in the context of the implementation of employment programmes. The regulation in the current amendments is applicable to the award of public contracts for disabled companies under the procedure for the purchase of goods and the provision of services. The disability undertaking must first fulfil the condition of participation. Before concluding a business with a disabled company, it is necessary to check the price and quality by collecting offers or checking the market situation. Thus, the contracting authority may award a contract without prior publication of the invitation to tender in the following cases: for services and goods of disabled companies, where the activity of training and employment of disabled persons is under special conditions and for which the Public Procurement Office has given an opinion. The contracting authority may award a contract under this point only if the tenderer fulfils the conditions under Article 41 of this Law and if the contracting authority checks the price and, of course, the quality of the contract subject by collecting more offers or by analysing costs or by comparing quality and supply. The contracting authority shall carry out the verification by type and subject matter of the contract, which it shall demonstrate in its file. That provision, in our view, constitutes a positive shift from the general principle of equality by introducing a preferential position for providers with the status of a disabled company as provided for in Article 569 of the Company Act. A limited liability company, a limited shareholding company and a limited shareholding company which, during the whole business year, trains and employs at least 40 per cent of disabled persons from all employees in the company, operates as a disabled company if it obtains prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, let me finish. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the addition of the law on the regulation of the situation of disabled enterprises and understand that in these cases, there will be a number of analyses in the implementation of services or supplies of goods mainly for the implementation of the objectives, training and employment of disabled persons as difficult to employ in the labour market, and we are also warned by numerous companies of disabled persons throughout Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, now you have your word, Comrade Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! It is clear that this proposal or, in general, the Public Procurement Act is unlikely to be definitive. There are always new situations, there is always development due to time and also to modern ways of doing business a little further and certain things need to be adapted, but I think that it is worth the legislative proposal to amend and supplement the law on public procurement to speak, in particular from this point of view, that, in view of all the comments that have already been made by the groups of Members today, there is now a heavy responsibility on Members, in fact that this law will try to improve in the following cases so far that all these shortcomings, the mistakes that have been seen in practice and are now being made here, and they are being warned that they will be tried by Members and Members with amendments in a way that they can be removed and made in such a way that they can make the law as little abuse as possible. Of course, the question is always why this law is so important. I'm sure that's not our idea. We, we know what year, we have summed this up, as well as some solution already implemented by the European Community, and it is also important to us because the battle on the market, both in the European Community and in our country, is growing. We must be aware that the stagnation of investments is high - this is definitely - and that the supply is increasing, and this is also increasing competition in this area. Of course, it is right that we have this competition high, but it is always necessary to think in this direction in order to avoid any negative elements that may be present in the procurement process. Of course, it is, as I said, the usefulness of public procurement in ensuring as much transparency as possible to ensure the greatest possible equality, because in public resources we actually have to - and people also have the right, especially taxpayers - to know for each tolar where it was intended, and to justify its use. This is also the case, as I have already said, for the equal performance of all tenderers. However, this proposal, like all other laws, also has a number of shortcomings, the reasons for which are different. Some shortcomings are such that they are also dependent on a type of invitation to tender. In some calls for simpler standard equipment, for food and so on, where things are very transparent, these shortcomings and distortions of public procurement are less, in more complex calls such as construction, such as different equipment, information technology and so on, complex equipment of course, and there is a potential for error and also for abuse significantly more. The shortcomings of these tenders may also be that, due to the provisions contained in this Act, individual tenders may also be tailored specifically to individual tenderers. That's definitely it. We've seen this a lot. Therefore, in my opinion, we should tend to make these calls as general as possible in order to make it impossible in some way to arrange the tenders for the individual tenderer. The disadvantage is also that it is extremely difficult, for example, to follow the principles of public tendering: the best bidder, the lowest price. This can be very misleading, for we know that the cheapest bidder cannot be the highest quality, and then many times it comes to bad solutions, bad choices. However, it also happens many times that the prices given by the tenderers - let's say that this is a completely normal invitation to tender - are sometimes significantly higher than real offers. This is also present. I myself have encountered these things in certain objects, even now as a Member, because I have often worked at a local level on certain matters of this nature and I have simply found that prices have been significantly higher than they should have been. This actually infuses or increases expenditure excessively on certain matters that should result in greater effects by lower use of public money due to the use of public funds. These things must now be carefully examined in how to achieve such solutions in the law that these things I am talking about try to prevent. It's a no-hitter. It also occurs many times that, especially in the case of low tendering costs, these costs are quite complex, but also expensive and so on, that no one knows how many applicants or tenderers are there. These things should also be simplified and costs reduced in order to make these things or those calls really accessible to smaller tenderers or tenderers who are not so rich and cannot afford many unsuccessful offers. There has been some talk about the fact that there are always suspicions of abuse, corruption, bribery, privileges and so forth in public procurement. That's right. This is all true, but it is also true that this is happening in practice. It is definitely true that in public procurement, I hope that you know most of this stuff from practice, that there is an experiment, precisely because of what I said at the outset, due to the stagnation of investments in all areas and then, what I know, the pressure on public investment, that there is an attempt, to ensure an appropriate business, if only for as long a period as possible, because it is essentially a struggle for survival. Then there are attempts at bribery, or in most cases I can tell you that this is even happening. Not everywhere, not everywhere, but in most cases. In one way or another. I'm not gonna say it's always direct money in my pocket, but in different ways. Since the recommendations of what I know, certain funds are passed on to sports clubs and so on, in all living ways, we can also say money laundering, which we can never eradicate. In fact, we won't be able to find them and we won't find them. It's about these experiments. It's about these plans. That's what's going on. This is also a little awkward if this is even a bribe as the cost of a business entity dealt with in a coalition contract, as Mr Podobnik previously said. That's almost unacceptable. I don't know, respected colleagues of the coalition: LDS, United List, DeSUS, if you've overlooked this possible provision in your coalition contract. If it's written like that, then it's the precedent of the highest rank, which is even possible. This can't happen. This should not be found in the coalition contract, giving a bribe could be the cost of a business entity, at least that's how I understood it. Let this be checked, otherwise Mr Podobnik has already asked you to change these things. Of course you can talk about a reduced price, about some of what I know, about a lower margin, or I don't know what else, not a bribe. But the bribe we know what it means. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am firmly convinced that this solution today, the proposed solution, brings some improvements and that, based on existing practice and all the recommendations we have received from different sides, we will try to improve this law. In fact, the greatest responsibility now lies with the Members themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. It is his turn, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The fact is that public procurement contributes significantly to the efficient and rational use of public funds. In other words, the work, the service ordered, is provided with quality and also financially acceptable. Of course, the question has always been, and today the question is whether the public procurement system is sufficiently transparent enough to allow efficient use of public funds. These questions are always asked. Allow me to see that one of the basic questions that I hear very often in conversation with people is whether it is at a national level or in certain local environments, that certain public contracts are more or less spinning in a certain cartel circle. It seems to me that this is one of the questions to which we must try to find the most acceptable answer. Article 42 is likely to be very sensitive in this regard when it comes to conditions, economic, financial, technical and human resources conditions which, of course, the operator or the interested party must also meet for the provision of a particular service. The fact is, we need to have a very sensitive relationship here. Why? On the one hand, if these conditions are substantially tightened, we significantly reduce the range of possible performers or possible selected performers, which, on the one hand, can improve quality and, on the other hand, can dangerously narrow this circle and thus prevent others from fighting on the market equally. It is generally known that there are certain companies in Slovenia, both state-owned and local, in certain business areas, who only run for office so that they can continue their work to subcontractors and earn the right amount. This is all fine and proper until the issue of the use of public funds as well as the efficiency and quality of services comes to the fore. In this context, I believe that it is a shame that the current law does not also monitor the law on the revision of public procurement, which would probably contribute to perhaps a better solution to this issue than the completeness of the processing of both segments. Since I am running out of time - an important novelty is the provision in Article 42 which speaks of additional works and also the condition that they are limited to a maximum of three years. However, I believe that further consideration should also be given to whether these three years are not too long in certain cases to allow for additional funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Comrade Jerovšek, your turn is now, but you don't have much time. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Public Procurement Act is an extremely important instrument and if such a law were accompanied by a political will to enable the authorities to make order, transparency in the award of public contracts, then this could be an important instrument. However, I firmly believe that the fact that the first law was passed in 1997 alone bears witness to the contrary will - that as many things as possible can be confused. I am afraid that this bill, too, does not go in the right direction in most of its changes. Look, once again, we need to remember what the head of the government's anti-corruption office, Boštjan Penko, said that "the long-term political rule of one party in connection with the economy and some lobbies leads to a situation where it is extremely difficult to regulate". Among other things, he said that legislation was often adopted, not to prevent corruption, but to cover it. I think that's exactly what this is about. Such a state of government is appropriate. Public procurement commissions, under the table of data or seemingly regular ones, are financed by government parties - many times, especially before the elections. It is logical that it is not possible to introduce some serious control here, because there is no political will to introduce serious control, to place on the table such laws, which are more obscure, to make transparency more impossible than to allow it. It is quite clear that we could significantly reduce public costs, public expenditure with transparency in this area. We could reduce them if we always had credible people at our disposal, but the smell of people's money drives us all the time. And when the government itself shows that the main leader was the smell of money, it is, of course, the order to make it difficult in this country. Nor do changes in this law lead to this direction; again, a law is being made to cover certain matters. Sorry, I have run out of time, the new Rules of Procedure do not allow for debate in such an important area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u27	Wait, we've already taken this comment. As long as the Group of Members asks for a debate, it shall also be given the time. You want a replica? [[No, no, ……]] Because you were not mentioned in the performance by your colleague Jerovska. I now invite my colleague Christmas to the floor. [[You won't.]] A fellow cremator? My friend Puksic? [[He's not here.]] Comrade Spodnik, colleague of Spindler. We have some time left, and now I think we can give a word to those who still want to, if they feel that way. Who else would want to talk now? Comrade Petty Officer, colleague of Bayuk and colleague of Peca. Five minutes each. Please, first a fellow Peca, who asked for a word earlier, then a colleague of Dr. Bajuk and then a mag. He's a petty man, and he rules, of course. Then you, Mr Director of the Office, will get 10 minutes, which could come from your bench this time, when you represent the views of the Group of Members, but we are very pleased if you come on the stage. First a colleague of Peca, a colleague of Dr. Bayuk and Mag. It's a trifle. Please, five minutes each.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u28	For the record, I would ask that this part of my implementation be considered as the implementation of the Group of Members, because I had misdiagnosed the functional party's time to present my position. Since such communication is therefore the only source of communication with the Government to the proposer, we will, of course, take advantage of this and submit the remaining three observations or dilemmas that we have around the law, which we sincerely hope that the proposer will be able to ensure that our findings are not reached in the context of the next examinations of the law. If, in the introductory part of the presentation, I have touched on the position of the members of the groups in particular Article 2 and the criminal sanctions and our assumptions as to what might have happened in particular in the past in the Slovenian market, I would like to touch on the negative view of the three following things. First of all, the authority of the contracting authority. After our assessment, the documentation requirement and the supporting documents referred to in Article 43 make it possible for the contracting authority to make an individual request for documentation for individual cases selective and per partes. According to our estimate, this increases the possibility of abuse. In connection with this fear with another criticism, this is the success of the invitation to tender at the same time - despite taking into account the positive facts in order to allow for a faster pace of work and a less repeat of the invitation to tender - we estimate that this would also increase the possibility of abuse. If we take both criteria, firstly, the competence of the contracting authority to request individual documentation, and that it is not legally defined, but for each individual case, and secondly, that each individual case has succeeded at the same offer, we estimate in the National Party that we will not approach it, in the last period of many times spoken words behind this speaker, it is the standards of the European Union, but we will move away from it. For the fact is, we estimate at least that during a period of transition in which in no way, if taken as a criterion of credibility and non-corruptivity, we cannot be proud. We therefore assess in the National Party that the competence of the contracting authority to provide evidence and documentation and the question of the invitation to tender in the form of an existing law would make sense until the next hearing. The drafter of the law should also take into account individual restrictions, which could be done - at least as we have seen this law - and be feasible in supplementing Article 104, or the articles on sanctioning. Furthermore, we also express disagreement about the possibility of denying the existence of a market in the form of exclusion from the tender. In view of the fact that we have given all four content sets defined by the law that we have found in each of them a number of domains or substantive areas that suggest the possibility of an increase - but unfortunately again, I will use these words - corruption, we cannot in any way assess that the law is suitable for a second treatment, especially in the light of the behaviour and knowledge of the fact that you have also defined in the explanation of the law, this is about a very rapid future amendment of the law that will be required by the European Union Directive. On this basis, we will not support this law in the National Party. However, since we know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia operates within the ruling parties and that the ruling parties provide the necessary majority in this national assembly, we would still appeal to you that, despite the fact that the law will come into second reading, you also try to take the comments into account. For the fact is that the comments we have made go only in the direction that the law is good and that it prevents corruption in all areas. This is the wish of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u29	Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to highlight certain things from the presentation of the positions I have already made on behalf of the Group of Members - this is what we are dealing with today. This is a law that has a long history with us, in Slovenia and in this National Assembly. That this law is a failure to be a constant source of corruption and other problems, we know when we face daily reports from the Court of Auditors, when we face reports from the Budget Control Service, which we are dealing with in this committee. In October 2001, this National Assembly asked the government to immediately amend the Public Procurement Act 1. On the basis of the Court of Auditors reports, final accounts for 1998 and 1999. Based on expert opinion. I recall well that in those days there was one public debate in Portorož, where experts pointed out the holes in our legislation and, on the other hand, we faced these consequences every day. That we have problems in this area, that's not new. The government knows all about it. And not just that. He also knows very specific cases where this matter needs to be corrected. This is the opinion of the State Audit Commission, which we discussed on the Committee on Budgetary Control and Public Finance a few weeks ago, when we reviewed all 36 proposals submitted by this State Commission to the National Assembly. We have decided on the Commission and have asked the Government, because we have learned that it is finally only preparing this proposal, we have asked them to examine and include these proposals. And now what have we figured out? We have found that at least 15 areas have not been taken into account or are poorly resolved in this bill. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am aware that this law in a number of areas is positive news, but there are still so many problems, unresolved problems or problems that we cannot accept this proposal as sufficient for the next reading. This would mean that this National Assembly will assume responsibility to correct in its working bodies what the Slovenian government has not been able to do in the last three, four years. Since not only is this law as it is, you will remember, if not, how did the then Minister for European Affairs here in this national assembly ensure that everything is harmonised in European law and not so. It's just not true. Today, too, the representative of the Public Procurement Office here has told us what we already knew that the European Union is preparing new guidelines. Okay. I am positive about this decision by the government to take this risk, that this may not yet be fully aligned with the emerging European order, or that we will then correct it. I accept this, I accept this risk because I understand the need to make things right once and for all in this area. Not primarily because of the European Union, but because of ourselves. For our sakes, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Please read the article in the Finance magazine today. Dr. Mitja Riesman, retired expert, under the title of SIB, is not the only case. How we do things in this area in our Slovenia and tell us, I don't know if it's all true or not, about 6.2 billion too much money that the Municipality of Ljubljana has spent on a cleaning plant. These things happen because of the holes in our legislation, because there are no penalties for offences, because gentlemen's officials can laugh at us in a mustache. What's going to happen to them? Nothing at all, because it's getting old. But when this comes to the National Assembly, we finally decide to accept it, and we will bear it again. This proposal must be reviewed by the government on the basis of all that we have heard here today. And finally, Mr. President, I understand, I'm sorry, 30 seconds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u31	Impossible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u32	I understand business problems [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u33	Just finish the sentence. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u34	on the conclusions in such cases, the first examinations of the law. [[...]] But we have to solve this, too. But why are we having discussions, if we can't conclude anything? Why don't this National Assembly ask the Court of Auditors to oversee the budget of the Ministry of Finance? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u35	Dr. Bayuk [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u36	and finally the Anti-Corruption Office to give us their opinion on this proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u37	Dr. Bayuk's colleague!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u38	I demand, Mr President, that we do the same. Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u39	It is only that we respect the rules we have adopted and these apply to all alike. With regard to your proposal for a decision, I have previously informally informed you that it cannot be decided by the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure but may be decided in accordance with Article 45 of the Committee. In order to propose that you should adopt the necessary decisions in the Committee's debate on this law. Mag. The petty man now has a word, then he'll get the word from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you. Since my fellow Member has gone 30 seconds later, I'll cut it short. I would therefore like to highlight these basic starting points. The law must be such as to ensure the competitiveness of those who apply for public contracts, i.e. equality, we can see what has been happening in practice, expedient implementation, that there is no need to establish some bureaucratic barriers that do not contribute to equality and to safeguard the competitiveness or protection of those who apply. This law is similar to the banking law. There is a will to settle a decent marriage, but there is still something left open to sway. This, of course, hurts us, so in the opposition, we propose that the government and the National Assembly take seriously the other proposals that we have mentioned, which are a stumbling block in order to make the law a good one. See, the existing law explained that the law is in conformity with all European directives. Basically, yes, but it wasn't in the performances themselves. In order to have order in this area in Slovenia, it is primarily necessary to have a law, as we have proposed, with all these supplements. However, there must also be a political will to ensure that the procedures under the law, not only the political will, but also the decent conduct of the public authorities, are not abused. We have a lot of these cases of how public procurement is abused, order-sharing, quasi-quisitions and the like. However, more will have to be done to do so, including the implementation of those six requirements that we have put in place to monitor also these public procurement institutions, and then we will be able to move further calmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. That is how we completed the debate in the second round. He will now be given the floor of the Director of the Public Procurement Office, Mr Soltes, and then we will conclude the debate before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Much thought has been expressed today on this proposal for amendments and additions, some more, some less critical. The fact is that this law will never satisfy all appetites, all views. If I say from practice one of the reasons why we are going to change, it was precisely practice that required a more liberal approach to proof of conditions, others demanded, more stringent, a common point between providers and contracting authorities that the procedure should be made as transparent as possible and that the basic principles underlying the public procurement system, in particular the principle of transparency, transparency, the economy of public finances and, finally, the provision of fair competition and the prohibition of discrimination, should be safeguarded. These objectives and principles have also been followed by the government in preparing the proposal. I see that there have also been some misunderstandings about corruption in particular. The fact is that public procurement is likely to be an option or a high level for such treatments mainly because we have on the one hand one contracting entity and on the other hand several tenderers competing for the same deal. To this end, we also have in law a so-called "anti-corruption" provision, which is in line with the Anti-Corruption Office. This is moved from Article 14 to 42, which refers to the status conditions for the recognition of competence. In order to avoid misunderstandings, as previously stated, even in the law, it should be stated that the ransom or commission is permitted as a means of obtaining a job, he would explain that it is a misunderstanding that the 42nd Article, which speaks of the status conditions, quotes paragraph 2 of the first paragraph: "The contracting authority must exclude from the tender procedure if the contracting authority reasonably suspects that the tenderer or someone else on his behalf is a worker, contracting authority or other person who may influence the decision of the contracting authority in the proceedings [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] the contracting authority has promised, offered or given any benefit in order to influence the content of the actions or the decision of the contracting authority with regard to the offer before, during or after the choice of the supplier or contractor." [[...]] This is therefore a provision which also means that this direction of limiting the possibility of corruption is being implemented. The fact is that the Public Procurement Act is not a law on the prevention and limitation of corruption, that the Public Procurement Act is not a law on the prevention of cartel agreements and monopolistic agreements, that institutions and regulations exist for this purpose, that the Office, I am now referring to public procurement, in the event of suspicion of such conduct or cartel agreements on the one hand, and on the other hand, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] corruption is communicated to both competent authorities, i.e. the Anti-Corruption Office and the Competition Office. [[...]] Perhaps one more word about what has been most recently at this session, the competences of the tenderer or the competences of the contracting authority to prove the conditions. I must say that, unlike the current regulation, which experts believe is both on the one hand and on the other, if I say both on the client's side and on the client's side - if I speak of the client's side, I also have in mind the economic chamber - was too much to oblige the contracting authority to submit evidence irrespective of the value or the type of contract. For this reason, proof is now proving separately these conditions for participation in two parts. One relates to the status conditions, i.e. to the tenderer and the other to the offer itself, i.e. to the personnel, financial, technical and other quality of the offer. For this reason, I would like to point out that not everything is left here to the contracting authority, his free will, what he will require for an individual invitation to tender. Even explicitly required, in which cases the contracting authority must exclude the offer from further cooperation, in the event that it is not registered, as it is said, for corruption reasons, if it has been banned by a judicial or administrative provision if it has issued misleading data and so on. I would like to point out that, in fact, this circle of reasons is on the one hand wider than ever before, a so-called negative reference has also been introduced, i.e. the explicit possibility of contracting authorities to exclude from the competition or from further cooperation the offer of a tenderer with which they have, if I simplify, poor experience, in this case a negative reference is made. This is as far as the status conditions are concerned. Secondly, the conditions are, of course, the very fulfilment of the conditions for cooperation in relation to the offer. Of course, things are perfectly clear here. I must say that they are much clearer than the current legislation. The evidence is also clearly defined as necessary to demonstrate such conditions. Above all, it is important that the contracting authority be bound by the law that before, it is stated after a choice decision, it is necessary to verify or re-check before the contract is concluded that the successful tenderer - that is to say - requests or meets all the requirements, the status requirements and the requirements relating to the tenders themselves. Therefore, another security guard would not be able to conclude contracts with tenderers which are status or offer disputed. The essence of these changes in this article, which has been most discussed, is in particular to reduce red tape to demand that when the contracting authority knows from the beginning of the mountain of papers that have so far enriched those institutions that have issued various certificates, I am talking about audit reports, up to bank guarantees. The subject matter of the order was irrelevantly different whether it was a billion-dollar business or a few million-dollar business. In this way, in a way, there is a greater possibility for the contracting authority to decide on the extent of the status criteria. When we talk about the terms of the offer itself, the matter remains the same, only a little more defined. As regards some other comments concerning the recommendations or views of the State Commission, I must say that the drafter has taken most of the recommendations of the State Commission into account, of course I will not say that all of them. However, I must say, as far as the law itself is concerned, that, as Mr Bayuk has already said, the requirement for a change of law has been in the government for some time. However, I must say that, as far as independent or dependent experts are concerned, it has been an opportunity for all, both for independent and independent experts in the past year, to participate in the preparation of proposals for regulations. But the circle of these people at the end, I'll say, is very narrow, it's about these kind of criticisms. As for the subordination of certain articles or what has also been expressed in some way as a fear that orders are often written on the skin of subscribers or tenderers. Of course, it is clear that regardless of or whatever the law is, of course we will never be able to completely and absolutely prevent individual derogations from the rules, so we also have provisions concerning sanctions themselves. However, the aim of each law is to achieve the tasks assigned in some way and these are clearly stated in the Public Procurement Act, if not elsewhere through fundamental principles, this is, on the one hand, a requirement to ensure the principle of economy, i.e. rationalisation of public finances, and on the other hand to reduce or equal treatment of all tenderers and to ensure fairer competition. The fact is, to conclude and make an assessment, I can say that its advantages are much greater than possible weaknesses and that, in fact, regardless of whether Europe requires directives or is likely to adopt new directives in the next two years, it is worth taking into account the experience of practice in adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your discussion, Mr. Soltes. We have concluded a discussion on the bill. Now we're gonna go to the next point, that's on 3. TIME OF DAY - we will decide on the law at 6 p.m. when we move on to the decision on the points of the day. At this point, we have a second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Previous Compounds for Prehibited Drugs. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Her representative will probably want a word of introduction. You want an introduction? Please. Please Dr. Dunja Piškur Kosmac, director of the office.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This law continues to take over the rules of the European Union which have been adopted since the entry into force of the law and thereby align the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union in the following areas of the European Association Agreement: free movement of goods, the fight against drug abuse, the prevention of illegal activities and the protection of health and life. The gaps and uncertainties identified so far in the applicable law found in the assessment of implementation and in the specific analysis of the law carried out by the Republic of Slovenia in cooperation with experts from the European Union are being filled. We have adapted some definitions to the definitions of the European Union. Next. This law regulates the allocation of precursors to individual groups and in particular lays down controls on imports of precursors and regulates the powers of the inspection service and the manner in which legal persons are reported to the Ministry of Health. The proposed amendments and additions shall include compliance with other laws which have indirectly or directly prejudiced the field of transport with precursors. These are chemicals law, customs law, state administration law and inspection law. Amendments to certain provisions remove uncertainties in the control carried out by customs authorities under customs law and the control exercised by inspectors responsible for chemicals. The area of inspection is now transferred to the Chemicals Office. It also regulates the termination of certain provisions or powers that we have in the Republic of Slovenia which will be transferred to the authorities of the United Nations Commission on Drugs or the European Commission at the time of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and on the basis of the discussions and proposals of Members and Members' groups, a number of amendments were drawn up at the first stage of the second reading, which were mainly of a legal nature. On the basis of these amendments, the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on precursors is more clearly and concretely governed by the provisions of the draft law. As no amendment has been tabled on the amended draft law, I propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u45	In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 19.6.2003 after the end of the agenda. We will now listen to the report of the Chairman of the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Please, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome you, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! At its 34th regular meeting on 4.6.2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons addressed the subject matter of this proposal. Representatives of the proposer participated in the work of the committee, with the Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals at the head, and representatives of the legislative and legal service. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view, and has commented on 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 20, 21, 23 and comments to the new Article 24. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons held a debate and a vote on individual articles and amendments to the articles. The amendments were tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 20, 21, 23 and 24, and our fellow Member, Ana Marija Tisovic, paragraphs 2, 4 and 19. The content of the bill was transmitted to the members of the Committee in the completed explanation. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted all amendments to the four groups. The amendment to Article 19 was withdrawn by Ambassador Ana Marija Tisovic because the contents of the amendment submitted were summarized in the amendments of the four groups of Members and the other amendments of the colleague Tisovcheva became irrelevant. The Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons also adopted its amendments to the second Article and introduced a new Article 23rd. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. In the light of the amendments adopted, the draft law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has thus been completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. A colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic, will present the views of the New Slovenia Group, for which I will invite my colleague, Kebric, to the speaker stage, to present the views of the DeSUS Group. First, a colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic's. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Welcome government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Pre-Prohibited Drugs, adopted in 2000, regulated the control of imports and exports of precursors to illicit drugs and, in part, the control of traffic with these ingredients in domestic traffic. We were reminded of the addition and amendment of this law by experts from the European Union. Some definitions of the European Union's definitions need to be adapted. Prior components of each group should be allocated, conditions should be laid down for carrying out the activities of transport and production of these substances and appropriate controls should be laid down on imports of precursors for illicit drugs. It is also necessary to regulate the powers of the inspection service and then to report legal persons to the Ministry of Health. The proposed amendments and additions to the law also include compliance with those laws which indirectly or directly affect the area of traffic control with these constituents. In order for these amendments and additions to the law as well as the law itself to be fully implemented, an appropriate organisation of the body responsible for chemicals and the provision of material and human resources conditions for its operation is necessary. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must urgently provide financial resources which have not been sufficiently provided so far. On the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons in the second reading, we completed the amendment of the Law with the amendments of the Committee. The amendments of the Committee have taken into account all the important comments from the amendments of our parliamentary group, as well as the amendments of other parliamentary groups and the comments of the legislative service. The New Slovenia Parliamentary Group will support the amendments of the Committee, as well as a proposal for amendments and an update of the law on the precursors to illicit drugs, together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Ana Maria Tisovic. Mr Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group, followed by her colleague, Montenegro. First, Comrade Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u50	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear representative, representatives of the government! Dear fellows! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, DeSUS will explain the position on this proposal, which is before us, a concrete proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on precursors to illicit drugs. The draft law before us is one of the so-called technical laws that continues to be adopted in our national assembly of rules of the European Union. It is also important that this topic takes into account broader European guidelines, such as free movement of goods, the fight against drug abuse, the prevention of illegal activities, and the protection of human health and life. In particular, the latter, which is most important or even of great importance to all generations, our generation is paying particular attention to this issue in the interest of our craftsmen, and we therefore welcome the adoption of this proposed law. The law arose on the basis of the need to adapt certain definitions of the European Union and to regulate certain preliminary components of a group and the need to regulate the conditions for carrying out the activity of transport or production of those substances and to establish appropriate control over the export and import of precursors. The inspection needs shall be transferred to the body responsible for the chemicals. As a positive assessment of the fact that, in addition to improving the text, the conditions for carrying out the activity of transport or the production of precursors are more clearly defined as well as the conduct of activities with previous components. In addition, it will be more transparent to export or import these substances from the country to the country that is on the special list of countries and substances. It is also of great importance that the control of the substances referred to in Article 1 and 2 of the Act, which enables more efficient transmission of data to the police in suspicious cases and faster action by the police, is made possible. The DeSUS Group also supports the amendments adopted by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, as we assess that the adoption of this Act by these amendments contributes to a better, more effective regulation of this area, while also interfering with other laws that form part of the package of European legislation. Members of the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Collegiate Silva Črnugelj to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats for her colleague Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known Mrs Dunja Piškur Kosmac and colleagues from the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on illicit drug compositions, in second reading. These changes are a result of an analysis of the law adopted in 2000 as part of Slovenia's participation in the Phare programme, together with experts from the European Union. The law itself was adopted as a result of commitments made under the ratified United Nations Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Distinguishing changes and additions are filling the gaps and some of the confusion in the law so far. In particular, they define more clearly the control of the substances in the first and second groups, with which it is possible to also engage in the marketing and integration of domestic transport, in particular the more clearly defined definitions that have caused problems, the lack of clarity in practice, in particular in the implementation of the customs law, and the control exercised by inspectors, are the responsibility of the chemicals. It is interesting that the proposed amendments and additions do not impose additional burdens on the state budget, as the applicant claims that a budget will be enriched by fees for the authorisations to carry out activities and export and import licences and will be a new source of revenue. We also find it interesting that, at the same time, the proposaler found that the pre-condition for the implementation of the law is also a certain organisation of the body responsible for chemicals, or if we are correctly reading in the Group of Members of the United Journal of Social Democrats, that material and human resources conditions must be provided for the functioning of that body, but from the explanation of the law, when we conclude that these conditions were already provided for in the adoption of the basic law, but that they could not be provided at the time of the deadline for financing and employment restrictions. What this really means for the smooth implementation of the law, we can guess, but certainly nothing good for the implementation and implementation of this law in practice. A major shift in consumer safety and health protection is a provision defined by packaging labelling. Prior components to be placed on the market which must be labelled and must be reported on the manufacturer and the substances marked. It seems important to us that the terms are better defined and that a certain preliminary component commission is more clearly defined. The same production and marketing of these ingredients, the defined method of issuing import and export licences, the clearly defined method of packaging, records, sample analysis, the way in which databases are developed, the component of annual and extraordinary reports, and, of course, the most important and also penalties. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we are somewhat reserved for those provisions and articles, when the Minister responsible for chemicals must repeatedly interfere with the implementation of the law with various regulations, procedures and regulations, as we know from practice that this is a hindrance to the implementation of a number of laws, and this is likely to be the case. In the United Social Democrats Group, we will also pay attention to the appointment of a preliminary panel composed of representatives of the body responsible for chemicals, the Ministry responsible for Home Affairs, the Ministry responsible for Finance, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and experts in the field of chemistry, pharmaceuticals and medicine. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Mr Tsukaj will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He will be followed by a colleague of Brenčič for the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Let's get my buddy Tucky first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! It's a technical law of great importance. Today you get on the chemical market already in such a form that it is not difficult to make synthetic drugs out of them. Also, technologies are such that you can do this in a garage or some other workshop. It is possible to transfer such chemicals from country to country by removing borders. The great demand of the international community of the European Union, as well as the requirement of our security, is that we closely monitor the origin of these chemicals, the tracing of these chemicals and the end-user of these chemicals. It is clear that, while we are aware that technologies and those involved in this are very clear heads, there are always new and new pathways to these chemicals, ever new and new technological grips, as well as ever new and new chemicals that they first discover for precursors to drug precursors, only then can we follow them. We will certainly support the Social Democratic Act, with all the amendments adopted on the Committee. All we care about is the issue of inspection. This is where the law authorizes or imposes on the chemical inspectors, which is clear and acceptable, but does not deal with the implementation itself and only the institution of inspection. Without inspection everything is empty, the law is meaningless, it has no weight, it has no effect. Surely this inspection service is correctly located at the office or future body responsible for the chemicals. However, even in the law that will follow this, the chemical law, the inspection which is supposed to be located on this body, is not good, is not sufficiently defined. I hope that later, in due course, the ministry will give birth to a sub-legislative act which will further specify this control, powers and also appropriate financial powers, I stress "financially". Because without additional financial resources, we will not have this control either. In short, we support the law, we want it to live, but in particular we want it to revive inspection and all those provisions that ensure that we are as safe a country as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Mr Brenčič will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, followed by his colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. This proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law practically re-writes a law that is in line with a number of other laws adopted after the adoption or implementation of the law on precursors to illicit drugs, and also aligns this proposal with a number of European Union regulations that are constantly changing there. Given that this area, such as chemicals, is rapidly changing regulatory frameworks across Europe. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on precursors for illicit drugs eliminates quite a few gaps and ambiguities contained in the basic law and has been pointed out by the application of the law in practice. The proposal for a law has been made through a hearing on the home working body, mainly on the basis of the legislative and legal services' comments, with a number of positive revisions, so that the updated proposal of the law fully follows the purpose and objectives of the proposed representative, Ms Dunja Piškur Kosmač, has been widely presented and is therefore fully supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group, including the amendments to the inspection supervision carried over to the chemical authority, and in this regard we are confident that the inspection can be carried out in a comprehensive manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Mr Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. He's been followed by a colleague of Beumann's. First of all, Comrade Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on transitional components for illicit drugs is, in fact, a harmonisation law for our entry into the European Union. Despite the fact that it was composed of an expert group, we have some comments in the Slovenian National Party. If we go straight to the article. For Article 5, which speaks of production and transport with previous ingredients, we consider that it is not sufficiently effective and that it leaves a segment that should still be judged in this article where it says: "Production and transport of precursors from the first group may, on the basis of the authorisation of the authority responsible for chemicals, be used by a legal or natural person, provided that the following conditions are met...". I think that here we should also take into account scientific research institutions that do not deal with production and not with transport of precursors, but use these components in scientific research programmes. This also raises the question of independent researchers who are difficult to include in the list of legal or natural persons in accordance with this law. It's also a matter of college. It would thus make sense to add to the subtitle 5 those who use, as referred to in Article 9, "where legal or natural persons who carry out or use the production and transport of precursors" as scientific and research institutions use them but do not engage in production and transport. Similarly, the words "or use them" should be added in Article 13, which refers to the record: "Legal or natural person who produces or transports pre-existing ingredients or uses them shall keep a record which shall contain the following data...". In short, I think this is a mistake that has occurred to the applicant; I think that this could still be corrected in the third reading, in fact, more or less a cosmetic correction, which is very important. In this case, it might make sense in Article 2 that it is used, as in some laws so far, where men and women have strictly been used and certain words in men and women's sex, but, for example, they would use - to satisfy the various mental health care companies for equality - in drugs men and women's sex would write "drugs" and "drugs". Otherwise, we'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Colleague Beumann will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia and will be followed by a presentation of the parliamentary groups by colleague Levič. Don't you? Okay. Then you, Comrade Beumann, are last in line. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Both in the world and in our country, we face great problems of drug abuse, especially among the young generation. The vast majority of countries therefore, by means of laws and other measures, prevent the production, transport and use of illicit drugs. Of course, it is not enough to monitor drug traffic alone, but it is equally important to regulate the production and transport of precursors for illicit drugs. These are so-called precursors, which are mainly completely normal chemicals used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries. Of course, they also use them in the illicit production of various types of illicit drugs in illegal laboratories. Production and transport of precursors are thus under strict control in most countries to prevent abuse. Precursors or precursors are mostly used as direct raw materials for the manufacture of illicit drugs and become an integral part of the chemical structure of new substances. The Republic of Slovenia is a signatory to a series of international treaties that share a common desire to prevent the abuse of psychotropic substances and to combat organised crime in this area. Thus, in February 2000, the National Assembly adopted a law on precursors to illicit drugs. Today, however, we are looking at a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to this law. The new law is needed primarily to adapt certain definitions of the European Union's definitions, to classify precursors into individual groups. The draft law lays down the conditions for carrying out the activity of transport or production of these substances, establishes the appropriateness of control over imports of precursors, regulates the powers of the inspection service and the manner in which legal persons are reported to the Ministry of Health. The proposed amendments and additions will bring into line with the rules of the European Union and laws directly or indirectly affecting the field of traffic control of precursors such as the Chemical Act, the Customs Law, the State Administration Act and the Inspection Control Act. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we believe that the adoption of the amendment of the law is necessary, and that is why we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. With your presentation, colleague Beumann, we have concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law and the discussion on the articles is therefore not possible. I conclude the debate with this, and with this I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday 19 June following the end of the agenda. I'm breaking up with this point. I'm doing a good five-minute break. The National Assembly will continue its work at 12.50 p.m. with the next item on the agenda. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u62	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving to four. Agenda item - Second draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government representative for further explanation of the bill and at the same time welcome the representatives of the government in our midst. Please. Ms. Dunja Piškur Kosmac, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In accordance with the European Association Agreement, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Law continues to harmonise the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia with the legal order of the European Union in the field of the free movement of goods, the protection of human health and life and the environment and protection against natural disasters. These are the new rules of the European Union which have been applied since 1999, when the Chemical Law has already been adopted, and which correct or supplement the provisions which summarise the European legal order as incomplete or inadequate and which, at the time of entry into the European Union, could constitute a restriction on the common market and the free movement of goods. In particular, we have removed from the law all national registration procedures and records and lists for which there is no direct basis in the rules of the European Union, and the competences in these areas are clear and thus far linked to common processes in the European Union. Provisions which constitute national elements of the law and are not, in themselves, subject to harmonised legislation and support and facilitate the implementation of harmonised provisions or directly increase the level of safety in the transport and use of hazardous chemicals are being rationalised. These provisions will apply only to legal entities after the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union, i.e. importers, manufacturers and users of dangerous chemicals in the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore the aspect of their competitiveness in the European area is a reasonable reduction in their obligations and burdens if they are not necessarily necessary for the implementation of chemical safety in the country. It is particularly important that new provisions explicitly introduce the use of preventive measures in emergency situations where, in order to protect people and the environment, it is necessary to act on the basis of partial and incomplete data on the adverse effects of individual chemicals on humans or the environment, if and as long as these measures are reasonable and necessary. The application and implementation of these provisions constitute the application of the so-called precautionary principle adopted by the European Parliament in 2000 and ordered the European Commission to take it as fully as possible in the preparation of the rules. The institutional structure in the field of chemical safety is also being complemented. The law lays down in more detail the specific professional tasks and competences of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals and disseminates them with the tasks of inspection of chemicals as well as the tasks of public health and other institutions carried out by them in the field of monitoring chemicals in the environment and identifying their effects on humans and the environment. In this way, other professional institutions that are already carrying out important tasks in the field of chemical control are also included in the functional structure for the implementation of the law. Smaller adaptations also largely preserve the provisions allowing the collection of data on chemicals in the country necessary for the establishment and operation of the national database on chemicals. In keeping with these provisions, its positive effects and usefulness, as well as the experience of the Member States of the European Union which have long established such a system, have been largely taken into account. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and on the basis of the debates and proposals of Members and Members' groups, a number of amendments were drafted at the stage of the second reading, which were mainly of a legal nature and adopted by the home committee. On the basis of these amendments, the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the chemical law provides for clearer and more specific provisions of the bill. As no amendment has been tabled on the amended draft law, I propose that a third hearing be held at this meeting in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy, Persons with Disabilities as a Labour Authority. And the chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, will present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As well as the preliminary draft law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Chemicals was also considered by the Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons at its 34th regular meeting, on 4.6. In addition to the legislative text and the opinion of the Legal Service, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or the Association for Trade in particular. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In its broad opinion, it formulated a number of specific comments to the draft law, comments to each article. On the basis of these comments, a number of amendments were prepared together with representatives of the proposer and representatives of the expert services of the Committee. The initial explanation for the bill was also made by the Director of the Chemicals Office, Mrs Dunja Piškur Kosmac, as before. And we've heard that explanation a little bit before. Through the debate and the vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled by the four parliamentary groups, namely LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, supported the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 15, 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 27, 29, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 43, 48, 50, 55, 57 and 61. As the Committee drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 60, the amendment of these four groups of Members to which the Article has become irrelevant has become irrelevant. In addition, the Committee has drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 9, 16, 19, 22, 34, 36, 55, 57 and 60 and has also established or incorporated in the proposal a new Article 60a. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted all the articles. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, a supplementary proposal for legislation in the proposal is also drawn up, as before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you to the chairman of the committee. We will now hear the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Maria Ani Tisovic for the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The current Chemical Act regulates the traffic and use of dangerous chemicals in the common European market. The Republic of Slovenia has introduced in its legal order the current definitions, concepts and procedures for the control of the transport of chemicals in accordance with the European directives. This law regulates the area of management of common chemicals and provides for human health and environmental protection. Since the entry into force of this law, the chemical safety situation has changed rapidly. In the Slovenian legal order, we have adopted new laws, as defined by the Law on Safety and Health. We've adopted regulations on environmental protection, a law on pharmaceuticals for plant protection and the like. This led to the duplication of legal arrangements on the one hand, and on the other hand almost completely removed the group of chemicals from the plant protection products law. In doing so, the Ministry of Health has limited its powers in the field of health protection and has so inadmissibly interfered with the core of its tasks and responsibilities. The Chemical Act has directly taken over a number of solutions and procedures as national procedures and introduced them into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, which has brought a number of complications in the transport of chemicals directly with the European Union countries. Amendments and additions to the Chemical Law preserve all essential elements of chemical safety in the Republic of Slovenia in terms of health, human health and the environment. However, these amendments and amendments to the law include all those EU rules that have been adopted since 1999. With this amendment, we are correcting and supplementing all those provisions which, at the time of our entry into the EU, could limit the common market and the free movement of goods. National registration procedures and lists for which there is no direct basis in the rules of the European Union shall be withdrawn from the law. However, the powers of the Minister in this area are more specifically linked to joint processes in the EU. The legislative proposal also introduces new and protective mechanisms in the field of health, human life and the environment. In particular, new provisions introducing the use of preventive measures in emergency situations are important. At the same time, the introduction of these measures also introduces restrictive conditions for their application. The institutional structure in the field of chemical safety is also being complemented. Specific professional tasks and competences of public health and other institutions in the field of environmental monitoring of chemicals and evaluation of their effects on humans and the environment are specified in more detail. The authorities responsible for the chemicals shall be extended tasks, including inspection supervision. The database of chemicals in transport and use in the Republic of Slovenia has already introduced a basic law. The existing scope of the collection of data on chemicals remains, changes and additions to the law only adapt the collection of data to the situation that will arise after the entry into force of the common market and the free movement of goods. The amendments tabled in the second reading of this novel will be supported by the New Slovenia Group and will also support the amendment of the Chemical Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be given by counterpart Ivan Kebrič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representative and representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I will explain the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia [[DeSUS]] to the proposal before us, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the chemicals law. The chemical sector is changing considerably, especially with the progress of science and the rapid development of technology. Thus, the adoption of the law will finally regulate this area so that it will no longer constitute legal voids, misunderstandings and, on the other hand, it will allow Slovenian operators involved in the transport of chemicals to become more competitive with the other members of the European Union and also with other countries. Since the bill deals mainly with or also with chemical safety or the protection of public health and the environment, of course, the release of certain procedures entails obligations and burdens on legal entities for reasons of competitiveness in the European area and this must not take place at the expense of the European Parliament. Therefore, the procedures for assessing the risk of chemicals, which certainly affect not only life but also the environment, should not be subordinated to the financial impact of oligarchies, which would like to produce and distribute in a cheap way such chemicals, which are not only harmful to health but also environmentally harmful. Chemistry is a very old knowledge, as alchemists were known at the beginning of the ancient counting of our years. Chemicals are present in many areas both in human life and directly have a strong impact on the environment. The Office for Chemicals, which is directly responsible for professional, administrative and coordination tasks, will be present in the new inspection and therefore has a very responsible task of directly and directly caring for human health and the environment, and will have to carry out the matters imposed on it by this Act, thus allowing it, of course, access to all the data relevant to its operation. The law will not be fully brought to life if we do not comply with its provisions, which it introduces and will not adhere to the legal person of all regulations, which will also be enforced or taken into account in the transport and manufacture of chemicals. Although the law changes or otherwise defines certain institutions and obligations for legal persons, in the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the adoption of the law will also be welcome in these areas. In addition to the adoption of this law, it is also necessary to regulate the areas relating to the same subject matter in a satisfactory manner, but they are treated differently as separate areas, but have been directly affected by the chemicals law. Only through comprehensive regulation will we achieve the intended purpose, this is health and life security, so the Group of Members will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Ms Silva Montenegro; she will give the position of the Group of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Well-known director of the chemical office, Dunja Piškur Kosmac and co-workers of the government, as well as dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering amendments and additions to the second reading chemical law, which, when adopted, has established a legal order in the field of the production, transport and use of chemicals in the common European market. One extremely sensitive area was thus regulated as the risks with chemicals are high and health care and the environment is so much more necessary, as all of this had to be defined and defined. The area alone, the content of the measures and the legislation of the European Union in this segment is changing and developing very quickly due to the very rapid change in technology and also to the number of chemicals. In particular, due to the process of approximation of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia has enacted new laws which have regulated individual areas of the Chemical Act as separate areas and gradually allocated chemical powers to other ministries. It is good to know that some areas are governed by the law on safety and health at work, while the scope of the regulation and operation of new legislation, new environmental legislation, in particular two laws are important here, namely the law on the construction of buildings and the law on the regulation of premises. This area is also governed by the Plant Protection Products Act. However, the law in question regulates changes and additions to those segments which regulate the transport of chemicals in particular: transport of dangerous chemicals by rail, roads, inland waterways, sea and air, production and transport of chemicals and chemical weapons and precursors for chemical weapons, production and transport of precursors for illicit drugs, if they are not regulated by specific law and, of course, by radioactive substances. The law defines the way in which chemicals and dangerous products are evaluated, reported, regulated and specified in their reporting tasks, the authorisation procedure and the method of cessation. It defines the role and tasks of chemical consultants, the way in which chemicals are monitored and monitored, the content, the role of the national chemical safety programme, which is particularly important, the control and the manner in which these controls are issued and the powers, in particular the powers of the inspector and the inspectorate. The present law also does not impose an increased or new burden on the state budget, according to the applicant's assurances. However, it is necessary to know that the applicant states in his explanation that the initial adoption of the law provided all the institutional infrastructure necessary to carry out the tasks arising from the law, but that due to the current funding constraints, in particular the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals and Health Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which are the basic carriers of measures and activities under the law, both in the field of employment and the implementation of preventive programmes, it has not been possible to fully highlight the initial system so far. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we ask how this will be ensured for the coming years, as it is envisaged that the Chemicals Office will increase its burdens, along with new tasks, and gradually acquire some tasks later than additional budget burdens, unfortunately they will not be able to enter the European Union. Therefore, the legitimate concern of the UK Group of Social Democrats about the possibility of implementing this law in its entirety, but the United Nations Group of Social Democrats is aware of the harmonisation of the law with European Union legislation, and in particular for the additional protection of consumers, and we have therefore decided to support the amendment law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr France Cukjat will present the position of the Slovenian Socialist Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. One more nice hello to everyone. Thus, this law is also one of the technical laws that should somehow ensure our safety for health and life and, of course, compliance with the requirements of the European Union. This law is intended to lay down measures to protect the health of humans and the environment against the harmful effects of chemicals and impose certain obligations on all chemical producers or users to transmit relevant data to the chemical office in order to label their products adequately in order to ensure the safety of these chemicals and so on. Well, of course, as with the previous law, it is very pleasant to find that we are actually following the European Union's demands consistently, but unfortunately in the implementation work we are less excited, less warm, less willing to do. In fact, the inspection, which is the basis for the implementation of all these well-mentioned measures for the safety of human health, is insufficiently presented, is insufficiently completed and continues to be financed. In fact, the financial structure of this law, which was explained in the first reading in the introduction, does not count on this inspection to be extended, completed, supplemented and not only transferred certain activities of the health inspectorate to chemicals. There is also no indication of the possibility of establishing own laboratories that are common in the European Union countries to monitor the harmful effects of chemicals on the environment and people. Current monitoring - this shows our experience in recent years - is not enough to monitor the danger of the situation experienced by our environment and thus by us, who are part of this environment. Good laboratory practice is mentioned in the law, but it is not made, it is not completed, so it will need sub-laws. The current monitoring, as I said, is insufficient, the financial structure of the law does not take into account its completion, its extension. We somehow count and hope that we may at least be in the title of the foretold or our national chemical safety programme, but our definition and our serious intention not only to fulfil the European Union's tasks and requirements, but also to provide our citizens with greater security over the chemicals we are actually facing and are an increasingly frequent companion of our lives. It is not only insecticides, pesticides, various desenficiencies, detergents, but it is a small industry that not only continues to release toxic substances as its by-product into the air and into the water, but also the use of increasingly dangerous chemicals is increasingly frequent, more comprehensive and uses increasingly new and more dangerous ingredients. This is how I would like this technical law, which is such as - and we will support it - to upgrade this desire in the future with an appropriate national chemical safety programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Stanislav Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the chemicals law is practically rewritten by a law which is of a highly technical and professional nature. The basic law on chemicals was considered and adopted in the previous term, when the representative of the applicant was somehow the same as today, only as the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. It was adopted as one of the first laws with a view to harmonising our acquis with the acquis of the European Union and it is somehow understandable that the legal regime in practice has still caused a number of complications and ambiguities, particularly in the transport of chemicals from the Member States of the European Union. The need for a comprehensive amendment and an update of the basic law also stems from a lot of dynamic changes in European Union legislation in this area. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law has undergone a number of amendments and additions at the time of consideration on the parent’s working body. This has also led to a comprehensive correction of the bill's proposal and the remedy of shortcomings, which has also been specifically pointed out by the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly. In the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the chemicals law, it is important that all essential elements of chemical safety in the Republic of Slovenia are preserved and further defined in terms of human health protection and environmental protection. However, a number of chemical assessment procedures are being streamlined, which is certainly a good move, a positive shift in the regulation of this area. However, an important change also concerns the area of institutional control or national chemical security, including the transfer of inspection control to a chemical authority, and we hope that the merger of both administrative and supervisory functions in one and the same body in practice will not lead to conflicts or that control will not be placed on the basis of administrative decisions. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a complementary bill. However, we expect that a number of sub-legislative acts, which are directed by law to the Minister responsible for this area, will be awarded in due time or put in place a new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be given by a colleague of Victory Jelinčič Nobility.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The law we have, or the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the chemicals law, is coordinating our legislation with the European Union and yet it has a number of inaccuracies and uncertainties. The first point to be pointed out is where the body responsible for chemicals will receive financial resources in the light of the restrictions on financing and on employment prepared by the Slovenian government. How will they provide additional resources, additional people who will undoubtedly need them? Although it is possible that all of this can be done under the auspices of the drug law, I do not think that this would be meaningful or opportunistic and thus would not solve this problem. Now for the article. Article 2 deals with biocidal products which are active substances and preparations containing one or more active substances, etc., and then says that plant protection products are not considered as biocidal products within the meaning of this Act. I believe that it is not very decided what a biocidal product should be or how to distinguish the term or concept of biocidality from phytopharmaceuticals. Plant protection products are intertwined with biocidal agents and it is difficult to write simply that plant protection products are not considered to be biocidal products within the meaning of this law, but when we know that this is very intertwined and the Ministry should devote more time to this issue. Article 3 states that the provisions of this Act shall not apply to the marketing and use of substances and preparations in final form and shall include ammunition and explosives and slightly lower mineral fertilisers - they come back to one nonconsistency. For, for example, nitrates are pure chemicals, and at the same time they are explosive, and at the same time they are mineral fertilisers. When we have a question here, say, amonnitrate, which we can mix with oil in an approximate ratio of 30 to 70, we get tremendously powerful explosives. At the same time it is artificial fertiliser and at the same time it is pure chemical and therefore this Article 3 has certainly not been properly processed. In Article 5, we say that all users of hazardous chemicals must be alerted to the dangerous properties of the chemical when purchasing chemicals and, at their request, appropriate explanations should be provided on the correct use of the chemical. I think it's a little bit too much of a nonchalant of the Ministry of Health, because these chemicals treat and operate dangerous chemicals and work very highly trained chemical or pharmaceutical guides, and this is not about constitutional judges who can translate words in one way or another and do stupid things together. This is about people who are executive, accurate, and aware of their responsibilities, so I think this article is a little bit funny. If we move on to Article 17, it says "the register of genocidal products contains the following data", including the names and contents of the active substances. What about concentration, content and concentration in this case when the product is concerned is not the same. The content of the preparation means which ingredients are contained in the preparation and does not in any way mean what concentration of these active substances is indicated. In short, this is also one big misunderstanding. Then in Article 29, when it says that legal and natural persons who produce and must submit for each chemical the chemical composition of a dangerous chemical. As if we didn't know that the chemical composition of the chemical is the formula of the chemical. You can specify the chemical composition of the preparation or something, but it can't be the chemical composition of the chemical - please. This shows that this law has been done by so-called experts, as we regret in Slovenia too. Just one more thought. I also think that it is a mistake for the Minister to set everything long and short, which shows that we will get again some restrictive laws in the form of various prohibition options, which will certainly not be in the good of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club would be given by Richard Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u79	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. The proposal for the amendment of the Chemical Law came into Parliament's procedure on a proposal from the government after a few less than four years. At the time, the law was in line with European legislation. In spite of the relatively short period since its adoption, however, it can be concluded that a number of major changes are needed. The development of chemical legislation in the European Union is very dynamic. During this time, a total of 6 Directives relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances or dangerous products and the production and distribution of safety data sheets have been adopted. Since a number of procedures under European law have been summarised in the law in force, there has been unnecessary duplication and there have been considerable difficulties in importing chemicals from the European Union. The proposal for a new law removes this unnecessary duplication. This removes all national registration procedures and records and lists for which there is no direct basis in the rules of the European Union and which would double the lists of the European Union. National reporting and risk assessment procedures for new and existing substances have been abolished. Since the adoption of the applicable law, certain laws have been adopted which have infringed on the content of certain parts of the chemical law and have been transposed into other laws, such as chemical safety and environmental regulations governing chemical production and chemical safety. For such solutions, the law actually only interferes with the transport of chemicals. An important change is the rationalisation of chemical assessment procedures. Thus, a number of different processes have been combined or replaced by a uniform approach to the assessment of chemicals, so-called "risk assessment", on the basis of a single methodology comparable to that of the European Union. The proposed solutions apply the principle of urgent action based on partial and incomplete data on the adverse effects of individual chemicals on humans or the environment in terms of caution due to reasonable suspicion. The draft law also extends the field of work and the scope of the Bureau of Chemicals in the field of professional, administrative and coordination tasks in the field of chemicals traffic regulation, including in the field of inspection. The law provides within one year of the National Chemical Safety Programme, which will define long-term orientations and allow discussion of those content that are not subject to amendment at this time, but are important for ensuring chemical safety in the broadest possible sense. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we believe that changes are necessary, so of course we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I ask the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party, does it wish to present its position? No, no, no. Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the proposal for a law on chemicals In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly will vote on the law on Thursday, 19.6.2003, following the end of the last item of the agenda in the framework of the votes. I'm breaking up with the fourth item of the agenda. We have 3 minutes of rest until the beginning of the 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Cosmetic Products. Thank you for your cooperation with the government representative. And a short break.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u81	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! We're moving to five. Agenda item - Second Commentary Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cosmetic Products. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Dunja Piškur Kosmac, Director of the Chemical Office, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! By amending and supplementing the law, all essential elements of consumer health protection shall be maintained in the light of the suitability of cosmetic products for the user introduced by the applicable Cosmetic Products Act. The draft law introduces the concept of the suitability of a cosmetic product and replaces the previous term 'cosmetic product safety' as it cannot be ensured in general safety practice. By amending and supplementing the definitions of the manufacturer and the transport of cosmetic products, it is possible to clearly identify the responsibility for the suitability of cosmetic products. The packaging of the cosmetic product must indicate and specifically indicate the supplier responsible for the suitability of the cosmetic product, both in terms of composition and the contents of the labels on the packaging. The supplier must provide at that and marked address all evidence of the suitability of the cosmetic product. Therefore, all other operators carrying out the transport, distribution and sale of cosmetic products are no longer responsible for the suitability of the composition and labelling, but must, of course, treat cosmetic products in accordance with the instructions given by the supplier. Transport is limited only to the end-user phase where the safety of the user is actually reasonable and necessary, and operators carrying out transport must ensure that they do not place cosmetic products on the market where it would not be possible to identify the supplier later due to inadequate labelling. The draft law does not distinguish between suppliers from the Republic of Slovenia and suppliers from the European Union, thus applying the principle of mutual recognition of goods and consistently aligning it with the European acquis. The inspection of cosmetic products is carried over to intra-state traffic control by checks at border crossings in the vast majority of cases. However, the surveillance of cosmetic products which are Community goods shall be adapted to joint and coordinated surveillance within the framework of the European Union. Unlike the other two laws, cosmetic products will still be controlled by a health inspection. The provisions governing the use of Slovenian language in the labelling of cosmetic products are in line with the legal order of the European Union and at the same time satisfy consumers in our country. The provisions of the legal order of the European Union governing the protection of laboratory animals in the testing of cosmetic products shall be taken into account in detail. In the Republic of Slovenia - I reiterate - testing of cosmetic products and their prototypes on animals is not allowed. In its proposal, the applicant also restricted the testing of ingredients and also established legal grounds for restricting transport, i.e. imported cosmetic products which have been tested on animals. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and on the basis of the debates and proposals of Members and Members' groups, a number of amendments were drawn up at the first stage of the second reading, which were mainly of a legal nature. On the basis of these amendments, the amended proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on cosmetic products is more clearly and specifically governed by the provisions of the bill. The amendments to Article 8 are tabled on the amended bill, which we will define in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Policy, Protection and Disabled Persons as a parent working body. The president will give his position to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, this proposal of the law was also addressed by the labour force at its 34th regular meeting on 04.06.2003. In addition to the proposal for a legislative text and a written opinion of the legislative and legal service, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia or its Commission for Social Activities and a letter from the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or the Association for Trade. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has drawn up a number of comments on the individual article of the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and legislative aspects. In an additional oral presentation of the opinion at the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service reiterated the issue relating to animal trials, as regulated by Article 8, and thus in conjunction with the dictiously unclear text of the proposed new Article 7, which wishes to regulate the testing of cosmetic products on animals. However, Article 21 of the Law even imposes an absolute ban on animal testing for the purpose of testing cosmetics. At the principle level, the question of the principle of legality was also highlighted, as the type of content that has been regulated in the law so far is transferred to sub-legislative regulation under the power conferred on the Minister responsible for the field of chemicals and cosmetic products. The initial explanation for the bill was also given to the members of the committee by the Director of the Chemicals Office, as we have just heard. The Committee went on to discuss and vote on the individual articles and amendments tabled by the four parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and Desus and our fellow Member, Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic. The intensive debate of the members and members of the Committee was mainly related to the content of Article 8, which the Legal and Legislative Service has specifically pointed out in an additional oral explanation, as I have already said. The Committee supported the amendments of the four groups of Members to Articles 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 18, 21, 22 and 24. At the meeting of the Committee, Ambassador Ana Marija Tisovic withdrew the amendment to Articles 13 and 15, as the contents of the two amendments were summarized by the amendments of the four groups adopted by the Committee. The Committee has also drafted its amendments to Articles 2, 7, 8, 13, 15 and 15 and amendments to the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 21. In accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee also voted on individual proposals for articles of law and adopted all articles. In this regard, a further proposal for a law which has been submitted to you in plenary decision-making has also been prepared. I must also inform you of the correction in the report submitted by the parent body or in the supplementary proposal of the law. In Articles 10 and 22 of the amended draft law, there have been shortcomings that we are correcting. On behalf of the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, I would like to thank all those who have participated constructively in all three draft laws, because we have prepared all three legislative proposals for plenary decision-making only in this way and with great involvement in the legislative and legal services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank the President for the report of his mother's working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ana Marija Tisovic will give her position on the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Once again, all of you are very well-happened! We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Cosmetic Products Act. The current Cosmetic Products Act has established basic criteria for the suitability of cosmetic products and for the protection of the health of their users. The new law before us first aligns the definition of cosmetic products with the definition that is in force in the legal order of the European Community. It also complements the list of new ideas necessary for the implementation of the law. More consistently, entities responsible for the safety of users of cosmetic products shall be identified. The new law also introduces a legal and professionally more appropriate term, rather than "user safety" introduces the term "conformity of a cosmetic product or product". The obligation to produce an assessment of the suitability of the cosmetic product and the basic principles and conditions for making this novelty are more clearly laid down. The manufacturer shall be responsible for the suitability of the cosmetic product and must therefore ensure a preliminary assessment of the suitability. Conformity assessment is a process that requires adequate expertise and experience. However, this amendment does not require an expert to be employed by the manufacturer. The body responsible for the chemicals shall be responsible for the international exchange of information and for the provisional prohibition on the sale of cosmetic products suspected to be hazardous to health. In addition to the prohibition on the sale of certain cosmetic products, the sale of certain cosmetic products may also be restricted after this novelty. However, surveillance of cosmetic products in sales continues to be carried out by health inspectors in cooperation with the chemical authority. Here again our parliamentary group wonders whether the government will have enough listening and will provide sufficient funding for this supervision of the office or body responsible for the chemicals. Due to the very frequent changes and technical additions to the data, provisions specifying the content and manner in which the data on the cosmetic product are to be provided must be regulated by sub-legislative acts, since all these provisions are withdrawn in the amendment of the law. The law also deletes all details of the way and content of the labelling of cosmetic products, as they often change and complement in the European Union, so it is better to regulate this by means of sub-legislative acts. The provisions of Directive 95/17EC on the protection of data on ingredients of cosmetic product are incorporated into the Slovenian legal order by this amendment. The amendment of the law adapts the competence of inspectors to the actual way in which cosmetic products are controlled. The inspectors will not only request the data, but will review it in the control of suppliers in the Republic of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the amendment of the Law on Cosmetic Products, together with the amendments of the Committee, where our comments have also been taken into account, is properly prepared and will be supported by our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to my colleague Ivan Kebric for the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Reputable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Cosmetic Products Act. In the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, DeSUS considers it necessary to amend the existing law. The provisions of the existing law are, in some cases, unacceptable for legislation and for the distribution, production and trade of our products, because this industry is always in a larger size and means an important part for our economy and we are looking for such a niche. It is already known from the development of humanity that, not only women, perhaps in the vast part of the "slip", if I use a domestic term, or were adorned with such natural ones, now that chemistry is progressing very quickly, modern cosmetic products are used. In the Group of Members, we believe that this proposal, which is before us, represents changes and complements the Law on Cosmetic Products, which constitutes an upgrade to the law that has been in force with us since August 2000. Taking into account the fact that Slovenia is ahead of entry into the European Union and that it is necessary to ensure, by law, the production of our cosmetic products, which will be irresistibly possible to apply on the European market. In this sense, instead of allowing the free movement of cosmetic products into the European Union, the current law makes it difficult. It is also non-selective in the definition of imports of cosmetic products as the obligations of importers of cosmetic products apply equally to importers from countries not members of the European Union as well as to importers from the European Union. The proposal also redefines the protection of data on cosmetic product compositions if such protection was taken into account or required in the interests of the manufacturer and in accordance with user health requirements. The current law did not allow this possibility, data protection. Given that the cosmetic industry represents a very intensive development, both by technology and by new products, the vibrant economic sector is also in Slovenia. In the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we pay particular attention to consumer protection and to the elements of public health not only of human, animal, but also of the environment. Since we believe that we need to address the existing shortcomings, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia supports the adoption of the proposed law and we will therefore vote to adopt the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much for that position. Following is the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, to be presented by a colleague of Silva Crnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well-known Mrs Dunja Piškur Kosmac and her colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we are considering amendments to and additions to the Cosmetic Products Act, which further amends the basic law adopted in August 2000 as a result of compliance with Directive 76/768 of the European Union and other provisions of the European Union acquis. In particular, in the United Nations Group, we support those changes that have enabled such bases and conditions to protect and protect the health of consumers and users of these products, as it specifies exactly who those entities and operators are responsible for the suitability of cosmetic products, in particular their safety, whether they produce or use them on the market. They must, by their own professional organisational and supervisory measures, ensure that cosmetic products are not harmful to the health of users and users and therefore must produce a toxicological safety assessment before issuing and selling them. That's a lot of progress. This is particularly important today, as we record a large number of allergic phenomena and other problems faced by users and users of such products, and as a result, more and more often they find themselves, and seek health care. The law specifies the expert responsible for producing this assessment, which also has to be employed by the institutions with the contractual relationship. For the purpose of inspection of cosmetic products, manufacturers and persons who place cosmetic products on the market must produce a dossier available to the inspector as well as to the health authority. The law also further specifies that cosmetic products must be labelled with information about the manufacturer, the place of production, the ingredients and the instructions on the use of the cosmetic product and its ingredients. There will be instructions under this law in Slovenian. And what is the basic novelty of marriage? In determining the appropriateness of the cosmetic product, as we have been talking so far about safety. This definition has been slightly altered. Many reactions in the public have been triggered by the law in particular in the test segment or experimentation and experimentation with animals in Article 7. Already, our penal law in its 342 articles, in its chapter on animal torture, clearly states who treats animals harshly or needlessly causes suffering, shall be punished with a fine or imprisonment of up to three months. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law and, of course, we oppose such a test. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you. I give the floor to my colleague Francet Tsukati for the position of the Socialists of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. The law that we have before us, of course, regulates some things well, but the most controversial and worst deals with the issue of testing cosmetic products on animals. There have been many uncertainties in the original text, but also in the corrected text that we have before us, there is a type of illogicality that we are also reminded of by the legislative and legal service. In the first paragraph of the new Article, it is said that tests of cosmetic products can also be carried out in certain cases on laboratory animals. In the second paragraph, "in the Republic of Slovenia it is prohibited to test any cosmetic products at any time on laboratory animals". There is already a lack of clarity, a lack of consistency that actually forces operators into some strange situation. Furthermore, the last paragraph of this disputed article reads as follows: "No matter what rules governing the protection of animals, the body responsible for chemicals" and so on "allows testing of cosmetic preparations on animals". Indeed, in the law on the protection of animals this is in another law, but it is clearly stated - in accordance with European legislation and with conventions - that only that test on animals is allowed - only that! - where animal suffering is expected to be ethically acceptable compared to expected achievement. Thus, an animal is allowed to torture or test only when the results of this test are of exceptional importance to human or animal health. This is never in the case of cosmetics, gentlemen! This can only be done if we test the medicines that people will then use. It is also possible to sacrifice an animal to learn how to operate before it goes human. But cosmetics don't belong to saving a man! It's a strange relationship, not just to animals, to life as such, to living beings as such. So this is a step back in respect of the legislation we have achieved so far. I'm afraid it's something like this to undermine the respect of life in the human field - the euthanasia of old people, the question of unborn children, and so on. This shows some kind of overly liberal attitude towards life, in this case, in our case, to the life of an animal. Of course, the amendment is trying to somehow strangely complete some things - an amendment that we will also accept today, the United Lists, the Liberal Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS - but does not solve this issue. Next. Nor does the amendment of the Slovenian National Party resolve because it says that animal testing is allowed unless it is possible otherwise to prevent harmful consequences. However, we think that if it is not possible to prevent harmful consequences, then such a cosmetic matter should not be used, it should be thrown out of traffic, and we will have another husband and other decorations that are safe, which do not require such interventions to life. Of course, we will insist on our amendment to delete this article. And if you will support our amendment and delete this amendment, then the law will also be acceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Cosmetic Products Act is also practically a new law. Its creation is essentially conditioned by quite similar arguments, as the previous two laws, which we have already discussed, provided for. However, the subject matter of this law regarding the protection of consumer health or users of cosmetic products is slightly more specific and much more direct than in the case of a chemical law and a law on precursors to illicit drugs. However, this law is also mainly of an expert technical nature. The bill introduces new concepts that are both more acceptable for domestic understanding and comparable for understanding within the European Union. With the amendments made by the proposal in this area, the EU establishes the principles of mutual recognition of goods and also establishes coordinated control within the EU. The amended proposal for a law is a much more complete product than the proposal for a law that has entered into consideration on the home working body, which is due mainly to the legislative and legal service and to the willingness of the entire Committee on Quality Change. Nevertheless, and despite the comments of the legislative and legal service, a somewhat incomplete Article 8 of the bill defines the testing of cosmetic products on animals. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore accept the proposal of four parliamentary groups, as well as the proposal of the National Party of Slovenia, as well as a much more comprehensive content for this article, if we do not see the specific needs for testing cosmetic products on living beings. It is true, however, that this is also taking place in certain specific products within the framework of the members of the European Union. We will certainly support the amendment that has improved the content of Article 8 and thereby support the content of the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče will give his views to the Slovenian National Party. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u96	As a rule, the well - respected speakers before me have rightly identified the advantages that this law should bring. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the proposer, shall state four of them, i.e. without a doubt the identification of the responsibility for safety or adequacy, which is in any way correct. Secondly, safety or appropriateness is maintained, and we also assess that it is positive and meaningful. Furthermore, it sets out a certificate transferor to the so-called supplier and releases other participants in the process, which, according to our assessment, will result in transparency and make it easier for the final customer of these products in particular. And another fourth positive feature, which you have also correctly identified by speakers or representatives of individual parliamentary groups, is the equalisation of suppliers from our country and the European Union. Of course, the benefits of marriage are to a certain extent positive. It is true, however, that the same position as the Slovenian National Party also has to be stressed that for us there is an acceptable argument, whether we will support the law or one of the amendments that have been tabled, it is a question of the acceptability of animal trials. I believe or believe in the Slovenian National Party that this is contrary to the rules governing the protection of animals and that the amendment to this Article is written only because of directives of the European Union and their logistical policies in this field. Regrettably, three amendments have been tabled to try to enforce the animal protection material by means of or arising from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that animal protection requires a special law or by regulations relating to the protection of animals. I believe, or I know, that all three amendments tabled, whether the Slovenian national parties and the various parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, should pursue the same objective: that is to ban or at least reduce to a minimum the possibility of interference with living beings. Given that individual amendments have also been tabled after the withdrawal of content, we will first meet with the amendment of the Social Democrats, which we will, because it is the first in line, also support the Slovenian National Party as well as the second, if it comes to it, and in the final phase of the third, if it comes to it. However, we estimate that it is right that the amendment, which will specify more precisely, or that it will miss the ban on animal trials at all, is adopted and will present an argument or main argument to us why the law supports or does not give support to the law. The fact is that so far, by three institutions dealing on the one hand with cosmetic products and, on the other hand, with animal protection, there have been no difficulties in applying or approving animal experiments. Thus, the Chemical Office points out that complaints have not yet been made by cosmetic houses due to the loss of profits because they cannot launch a new product. On this side, therefore, there is no need for a government proposal to be able to initiate animal experiments, on the other hand, the veterinary administration is also speaking or stressing that it has not yet been given initiatives to allow animal experimentation and veterinary inspectors point out that this has not yet been done in practice. Based on the facts of these three institutions and the established practice in the Republic of Slovenia, we do not really see the sense and desire of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to legislate and thus, after our assessment, violate both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legal acts in the field of animal protection, in order to begin to allow what is the tendency of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to experiment on animals in the area of cosmetics. As has been said, there is no reason in the Slovenian National Party why we should lower standards for such activity. It seems completely pointless to us, so we will adopt legislation if amendments are adopted to Article 8 and, of course, prohibit intervention in the experimental field of animals. Personally, I think it would be most appropriate at this time to support the amendment of the Social Democrats, which does not allow for any dilemma in this area. If the amendment of the Social Democrats does not come across the necessary majority of Members, we hope that at least the amendment of the Group of Members or of the Slovenian National Party pursuing the same objective will be adopted, that is to reduce or prevent such experiments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you. My colleague Richard Beumann will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Once again respected colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cosmetic Products Act is part of a package of laws that comply with the European Union acquis on the production and transport of cosmetic products in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendments and additions relate to the Cosmetic Products Act, which has been in force since August 2000, which has established rules on the production and transport of cosmetic products and aligned them in the main part with the acquis of the European Union. However, there was a need to supplement and amend the existing law, as the law in force on the import and transport segment of cosmetic products deviates significantly from the European legal order and, instead of releasing the free movement of cosmetic products with the European Union, it makes this exchange difficult or even makes it completely impossible. The law defines all activities after completion of production and thus indirectly imposes responsibility for the safety of the cosmetic product also on persons who only participate in the distribution chain. The current law is too selective and is also inaccurate in determining the import of cosmetic products. Transport by cosmetic products between countries within the European Union does not mean imports and is freely carried out, as, in order to harmonise the area of cosmetic products, one Member State must automatically meet the requirements in another Member State. Therefore, the proposal brings a number of important changes. By amending and supplementing the definitions of the manufacturer and the transport of cosmetic products, it makes it possible to clearly identify the responsibility for the safety or suitability of cosmetic products. By means of amendments and additions to the law, the packaging of the cosmetic product must be indicated and specifically indicated by its supplier, which shall take responsibility for the suitability of the cosmetic product, both in terms of composition and the contents of the labelling on the packaging. It is also important to note that the amended and amended law distinguishes between suppliers from the Republic of Slovenia and suppliers from the European Union, thus applying the principle of mutual recognition of goods. The amended law will clarify the status of the responsible persons so far and their relationship with the manufacturer or importer. The bill introduces a new concept of adequacy and replaces the previous term of security. In practice, it is not possible to provide some general security and is therefore replaced by an expression of suitability which regulates the relationship of cosmetic product to the requirements established by law. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Cosmetic Products, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will be supported by the LDS Group of Members. We will also support the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy, together with the coalition partners, to amend Article 8, which provides for the prohibition of testing of cosmetic products in animals in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the Animal Protection Act and the amendment to Article 21, which only changes the title and is editorial in nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be led by the review of the amendments of 16.06. I would warn you in advance and ask that we focus on two articles, Article 8 and Article 21 which have been tabled as amendments to Article 8 of the three amendments to Article 21 of the amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? I am opening the debate on Article 8 and the three amendments tabled to Article 8. My friend Richard Beuremann.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like in particular to highlight what has been somewhat misinterpreted in the previous debate. I am very sure that the amendment tabled by the Liberal Democracy Group, together with other coalition partners, allows or prohibits testing of cosmetic products and their prototypes in animals in the Republic of Slovenia. Regardless of which amendment will be adopted today, this is the way it will be implemented in the future. However, as regards the amendment, it must be said that the first paragraph of Article 7 introduced by Article 8 refers to imported cosmetics. It is simply a matter of regulating cosmetics coming to Slovenia from other countries. That's how we understand this amendment, and we think it's appropriate as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I give my word to France Tsukati. He wants to discuss the amendments to Article 8.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. To this Article, specifically the amendment proposed by the four groups of Members. This amendment is really a step away from the basic text. It prohibits testing of cosmetic products in animals in the Republic of Slovenia, but sets out a number of conditions that the imported preparation must meet to be imported into us. I wonder which customs office will verify how this imported preparation was prepared and whether or not animal testing has been carried out with this preparation? It will probably apply to us that what is properly registered in the European Union should be medicines, cosmetics, I don't know what, and it will have to have an open door on our market. As a result, paragraph 1 seems inappropriate or unnecessary. He's more complicated than that. However, if paragraph 1 is unnecessary, we wonder if an entire article or amendment of this article is necessary. For this reason, we believe that there is no need to amend this Article and we propose that we withdraw from this amendment, so we propose in our amendment. If I were to choose either the government text or the amendment of these parliamentary groups, I would accept the amendments of these four groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you. My friend Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Cuckoo, it is true that we are testing the drugs on animals. That's because we need these drugs to eat. But cosmetic products are, in fact, an urgent evil that we have here. We've already heard that they cause allergies today. Well, we can avoid that by trying on animals. But there's something else that bothers me. How, if we know, and we know well that some cosmetic products have a concerted effect, how do we try this? If it's not a living thing, it won't develop, it won't develop. Here's the problem. I think that this amendment will allow, for sure, for the European Union, including such animal trials to determine, say, the carcinogenic effect of a cosmetic product. Okay, well, I don't mind the allergy being done in a test tube, but how to determine the carcinogenic effect. I think it is good to leave it in exceptional cases, as the European Union is likely to prescribe, that these animal trials are also allowed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much. My friend Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thanks again for saying that. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we estimate that the cleanest amendment is in order no. 1 which says that paragraph 7 is deleted. The fact is that the proposal put forward by the applicants does not allow for any derogations. That is why, of course, we will also support it when we come to the vote. On the other hand, I estimate that the difference between the amendment is below order No. 2 proposed by the LDS, the United Letters, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, and the third amendments tabled in the Slovenian National Party, would therefore, of course, make it more restrictive to make animal experimentation more difficult. This would mean that, according to our assessment, a more meaningful amendment under Article 7 would be that, according to our assessment in the first composition, any testing of cosmetic products, their ingredients or combinations of ingredients on animals is prohibited. It further states that testing of cosmetic products, their types on laboratory animals is prohibited for purposes and so on. In paragraph 4, however, we note that it is possible, exceptionally, to derogate from the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, of course, under the conditions set out above, between which we prescribe the Office for Chemicals or the Authority responsible for the protection of animals, and thus the condition of the prior consent of the European Commission. In the amendment under order number [[?]] , which is proposed by the Liberal Democracy together with the three parliamentary groups, is also allowing the provisions of the first paragraph, which, according to our assessment, is the component of the cosmetic product, and determining the conditions for testing. On this basis, we believe - of course, in the event that only amendments under number 2 and 3 remain under consideration - it makes sense and is in the interest of animal protection to adopt the amendments of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I give the word again to France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u108	I just wanted to replicate. I don't think Mr. Fellow Member understood or understood the amendment of his Group of Members. It is clear here how and what, although in the following paragraphs we are setting some conditions, how to implement and how to conduct experiments on animals abroad, which is of course a little funny and somehow does not belong to our legislation. I reiterate that the basic issue is that we cannot allow the aggressive cosmetic industry to do animal experiments, but we must take into account the fact that products registered abroad will still have to find their way to our market and we will not be able to prevent them from adopting one or another law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 8 and the amendments? If not, I conclude the debate on Article 8 and the three amendments tabled. I am also putting to the debate Article 21 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups, LDS, the United Lists, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss Article 21? I don't see a desire to discuss it, so I'm closing it. We will vote on the amendments today at 6 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. As there was no debate, therefore, there is no need to call for the use of spare time, so I will interrupt the agenda. We will continue the session with the 6th item of the agenda, with the proposal of the War Cemetery Act, at 3:05 p.m. I thank the representatives of the government for their cooperation and all of you for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u110	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Good-bye, everyone. We continue to work, moving on to 6. Dot of the Day - Second Defence Bill on War Cemetery. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. I invite the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Master Franz Žnidaršič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u111	Mr President, honourable Members and honourable Members. The War Cemetery Act is the first law in the independent country of Slovenia to provide the basis for regulating the war graves of all wars in Slovenia. It is particularly important because the country wants to regulate the country's graves in a uniform and equitable manner, unlike the current situation, when local communities take care of the graves of World War II in very different ways more or less good, sometimes and sometimes nothing. They have a special place in this marriage of cemeteries that originated mainly after the end of World War II, less later, and that were, as a rule, immediately or shortly after their birth, remained virtually unordered to this day. In its statement of 22 November 1901, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia expressed its regret at the postwar conduct of the then authorities and postwar killings and the formation of silenced graves, while ensuring that all such graves are discovered, arranged, marked, for which the amount of financial resources will be available. This law will allow a government promise to be fulfilled in a way that does not accuse, attack or offend anyone. It will enable all our dead in wars or wars to exercise the right to graves, signs on them, and memories on the part of anyone who wants or wants to hear it. The law does not solve and does not intend to solve the blame of the dead, nor does it intend to determine the responsibility for their death or the formation of silenced graves. Both can be cleaned elsewhere and in a different way. In this respect, it also provides for an inscription on the uniform signs to be put on such graves, in particular a completely neutral inscription adopted by the Government Commission on the outstanding issues of silenced graves with consensus, despite its political, very heterogeneous composition. Last but not least, since 1998, when it was first introduced, the law has undergone a number of changes in terms of improvements that, on the one hand, make it possible to arrange the graves of all unknown victims and, on the other hand, allows the relatives to bury undisputedly identified remains of their loved ones in their own way and in their home cemetery. Regarding the inscription, it must be said that regrettably, on the part of those who today oppose the last solution of the government commission, a different one, acceptable to them, was not supported by the inscription last year. Therefore, it is not possible to conclude that not everyone wants the necessary law to be adopted as soon as possible. The War Cemetery Act lays down, in its first part, the types of military graves, protection and protection regimes and, secondly, financing, specific provisions for protection and regulation and criminal provisions sanctioning a different conduct as provided for in this Act. The government expresses its belief that the law that you have before you is acceptable to all who do not wish to clear up the possible open issues of history, the blame for the responsibilities of the living and their views on the tragic events between and after II. World War II. To the extent possible, the government has adopted a number of proposals to improve the text and applicability of the law and will also have such a hearing in the future if the law is to be finalized or corrected in some detail. The government is giving up inappropriate debates on this law in advance, as well as on the issues that would go beyond the content of the law and will not take part in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Nice to meet you all again. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons discussed at its 34th meeting on 4.5. a proposal for a law on military graves, a second consideration submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 11.4. The Government replaced the proposal for the War Cemetery Act of 12.11.2001, as well as its amendments, of 4.2.2002. Representatives of the proposer, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs mag. Francem Žnidršič, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia commission for the marking of postwar mass graves, as well as a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and, inter alia, made comments to the individual Article of the Law on Articles 15, 27, 28, 39, 40 and 44. In accordance with Rules 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The amendments were tabled to the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the New Slovenia at 1, 2, 4, 7, 13, 16, 18 and the amendment for the new 19th, 19b and 26th, 27th, 28th and 29th and to the four LDS Group of Members, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS at 27th, 28th and 29th. The members of the committee were informed of the introductory explanation, as we had heard earlier on the plenary, so I will not repeat it. The debate on Article 1 of the bill tabled to the amendment raised the view that the government proposal does not cover the graves of the victims of the revolution, since post-war events are not about any event but about revolutionary violence. Some discussers felt that there was still no political consensus and that we would not peacefully bury all those who were not buried by such a law. Others were of the view that the general provisions of the bill are regulated in a comprehensive manner, which are considered to be war graves, namely that they are military graves, the graves of victims of war violence and the graves of war-torn persons. A proposal for an amendment to the Committee proposed by a member of the Committee, Mr Franci Rokavec, was also proposed by Article 1. In the debate on Article 2 of the bill and the amendment tabled, the opinion was expressed that the status of the military cemetery should also be recognised as the graves of military personnel, all soldiers, domestic and foreign, whether they have fallen in battle or have been killed as prisoners of war. The amendment was not adopted by the committee. Therefore, the members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia announced obstruction and left the committee meeting for further consideration. In the discussion below, members of the Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 13 and 26 of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia, which covered the content of those articles more comprehensively and the Government did not oppose them. In the context of the discussion on individual articles of the proposed amendment law, the Committee adopted amendments to the four groups of Members by Articles 27, 28 and 29, and adopted amendments to the Social Democratic Party of New Slovenia's parliamentary groups by Articles 13 and 26, but did not adopt the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party, New Slovenia by Articles 1, 2, 4, 7, 16, 18 and not the amendment to the new 19a. and 19b. Article and not amendment to Article 28. The other amendments remain irrelevant. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Articles 7, 15, 27, 39, 40 and 44. The Committee shall be in accordance with [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The Rules of Procedure also voted on all individual articles and adopted them. [[...]] The amended proposal for a law is submitted for plenary decision. It covers everything that has been adopted on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Today we are talking about a thing that goes beyond politics. The right to grave, honourable Members and Members, dear Slovenes and Slovenians, is one of the foundations of human dignity. Human dignity is above all political calculation, decision and strategy. But beyond human dignity, there can be no policy that wants to lay a solid foundation for the lives of a nation and achieve a truly fruitful development of society. Human dignity is a prerequisite for any normal political action and creative freedom. In the light of this dignity, people can differ, but we cannot stand out, we can compete with each other, but we can also oppose each other, but we cannot overlook that we all have a human face. And so much more so for our Slovenian ancestors, who are all in the good and bad part of our common past, from which our culture today grows and lives. Whether the image is true or not to be a half-lived history created by Slovenian history, this is not about changing it. Whether the events of those times are accused or not, this is not the point. We must not be interested in forging political capital here on such a major issue, and we are not interested in it. We are talking about the fifth memory of the dead, the human dignity of the Slovenians, whose violence not only took their lives but also the right to grave. This is our basic human duty. If we abandon her, we will not enter the circle of civilized existence. But we will fulfill it if we respect the reality of the graves. This means two in the assessment of the Nova Slovenije Group. First of all, there will be no historical and misleading marks on the graves. Another time. That the will of the kinsmen will be respected in this act. Such a practice is borne out by the oldest documents of our culture, and this has become the teststone of European civilization to which we want to count. The fiveth arrangement of the graves of the victims of the vortex and revolutionary violence is an act that is more important to us and our future than to the dead. If we are to survive in history and establish ourselves as a strong nation with a healthy self - confidence, we must learn to look into the face of the truth. In other words, we're gonna have to take a look in the mirror, look at ourselves. Only with such honest critical self-esteem will we be able to deal with reality and can we be open to a new, second and otherwise, both in Europe and in the world, without fear of losing ourselves. But we must first accept ourselves and our history. Such an act requires great courage, the courage for reality. Only this courage is a defense against lying and violence, which are two forms of the same blinding before what is true. The historical roots of Slovenia are deep and rich because they are diverse. Our self - respect tells us to acknowledge them and take care of them. Their denial or falsification has prevented them, and to a large extent it continues to prevent the spread of spiritual freedom. Without spiritual freedom, however, there is no creativity With laws, of course, it is not possible to replace spiritual acts such as national reconciliation, but without spiritual freedom and openness of life it is impossible to write and adopt righteous laws and to form a free society. And we must not forget that because of us and our future. The size of life is nowhere to be realized as deeply as the mystery of death. Nothing can open our eyes so wide that we are in good and bad connected as humans and as a nation, that we are ready to accept each other despite all the differences that have been and will be, simply because we have all been and we are Slovenian and people. In view of the most likely outcome of today's debate on how most of the national assembly will decide, I would like to conclude with a sincere confession of our deep conviction that sooner or later the time will come when the Slovenians will find each other and all together enough courage to be able to do without falling into the whirlwind of a sad past, to accept our history and to continue to create it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We believe in our Group of Members and we are convinced that this chapter of our history should be completed. It is up to us, how we will decide, to be responsible for what future generations will say, how we have concluded this sad chapter of the conditions of liberation. Without regard to whose ideology or faith is someone, our people, the simple people say, "Let them rest in peace, let the dead rest in peace." The Church teaches and says, "God give them eternal peace and peace," and it is over. The great poet Ashkretz said, "Only in your works will you live forever," but these works are honorable or dishonorable; each one deserves what he has done in his life. I believe that it is high time to end these discussions, in the character of the Slovenian people, there is no extremism. It is in our character: calmness, compromise, and to unite at one specific point, which we consider to be the right one. In Styria we wondered during the war those who lived there or were at least so much looked at when we heard what the partisans were, when we heard what the troops were, when we heard what the patriots were doing, when we heard about the white guard, when we heard about the blue guard, and when we heard and saw the bars, the windows were black-handed. Young people don't care about all this stuff anymore. My grandchildren and grandchildren don't ask me where you've been, where you've been, where you've been, where you've been, what you've been alive, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been through, what you've been missing, what you've been missing, what you've been missing, what you've been drinking, what you've been drinking, what you've been drinking, what've been drinking, what've been drinking, what're in Styerski, what's what's in there. Let us bury once, if this war axe was at the time during the dishonorable period of our history, then let us conclude the matter with compromise. In Styria, in Maribor, she was very "indignant," under the acquittal, or otherwise, a lively discussion at the city hall in the city council, what inscription, what monument should we build. We have set up a pyramid and the inscription is unique, and it reads, "The memory of the dead is a reminder to the living." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u119	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the proposed law along with the amendments adopted by the Home Committee. It is not acceptable for many citizens and citizens killed in between, but especially directly after II. World War, they don't have their graves yet. The fifth to the dead demands that the State finally grant the right to graves to all those whose violent death has been silenced and the graves have long been banned. That is why we support efforts to regulate the status of the silent graves and because the relatives of these people could not arrange the graves and take care of them themselves, so that they can be cared for and cared for by the state. The proposed War Cemetery Act is an opportunity to do so. In the United List of Social Democrats, we support the efforts of the Government and the Commission to regulate the silenced graves. We agree with the Commission's position, as presented by its President, Peter Kovačič Peršin, at the meeting of the mother's working body. I quote: "This is not a law on reconciliation, not an assessment of the past, but a law on graves, that nameless victims are finally buried by the state in a civilized way." Or as the Vice-President of the Commission said, Dr. Remembrance Hribar, quote: "To bury the dead means to give up hatred, to give up exploitation, to manipulate the dead for daily politics." And since they have found solutions in the Commission for all, we also support their proposals, which go beyond the values of judgements and convictions. And these are also the reasons why we opposed the amendments of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party in the home working body and the same applies to their amendments now tabled, to Article 7. This proposal also necessarily leads to polarisation, to a debate on the evaluation of history and the past, but we can say that it also leads to the creation of history. That's not what we want. We could not agree to this, it is not the purpose of this law at all, and in particular it is not the responsibility of the national assembly. We therefore propose that we do not open these issues or start a debate on them. For it is not possible to deny war, occupation, rebellion and resistance, as well as collaboration. For all these historical facts and circumstances, they cannot be reduced to ideological differences and ideological approaches. The Partisans were never primarily and only Communists, even less and only Communists, but national liberation armies. Also, members of other groups were not only members of anti-communist formations, since in their main and actual position, the SS police units, namely, the armed collaborators, were mainly auxiliary. It is therefore right that we respect these historical facts, but this is no reason not to achieve reconciliation, so that, if necessary, we will be able to build together a worthy common monument on behalf of the State. We therefore call on all parliamentary parties to adopt the proposed law. Each of us will also be able to evaluate history according to our own knowledge. But we will all respect all the dead, we will provide their decent and fivefold funerals, and we will ideologically write festivities on graves and monuments. Whoever is not capable of this civil act wants to abuse tragic history and political divisions in it for hatred today. This is neither regular nor upright nor state-of-the-art. The United List of Social Democrats therefore supports the proposals drawn up by the Government and adopted by the Commission's mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues. Unfortunately, our amendments were not adopted on the committee, so the text, as before us, is unacceptable, since it contains, among other things, two great lies, two great insults. In Article 1, I quote, "War graves are also the graves of victims of postwar events." What post-war events, I ask you? Traffic accidents, guest fights? These postwar events have their own name - revolutionary violence. This violence has nothing to do with war except maybe a time coincidence in the first period. Revolutionist violence began in 1941, waved after the end of World War II and continued deep in the 1950s. Slovenia is literally sown with the mass graves of revolutionary violence and, in particular, because of these graves, this law is to be passed. The denial of revolutionary violence means a severe disregard for historical facts in this law, which means the politicisation or ideology of graves, which remains a painful unhealed nation's wound. By acknowledging revolutionary violence, we would show not only a more mature distance to historical mistakes, but also the NOB and partisanism would at least partially relieve the heavy burden of mass revolutionary crimes. For the vast majority of the partisans, the main goal was to rebel against the occupier, not to carry out the communist revolution, to liberate the country, not to massacre the political opposition. They fought for a different freedom than it did in 1945. By rejecting our amendment on the committee, you refused the opportunity to take the first national step towards reconciliation towards your own history. Thus, the war graves law itself was transformed into a ridiculous farce that would be a symbol of national separation for a long time. Article 2 says, "military graves are the graves of military personnel who fell in war or died during war." So the graves after the war-killed soldiers under this law are not military graves. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not only about the locals and the troops, members of the Slovenian National Army, but also about the Ustashas and after the war killed German prisoners. Their graves are under international law military graves. Therefore, this law, if not at our request, will have to undergo substantial changes at the request of the European Constitutional Court, sooner or later. When we explained to the committee the amendment, which would also recognise the status of a military cemetery after the war-torn soldiers, the government representative did not deny the shortcomings of this article, but opposed our amendment because, I quote, "they would break the concept of law". Clearly, then, it is a carefully planned concept, whereby mass post-war killings would not involve the killing of soldiers and thus war crime, which also, by our criminal code, is a crime against humanity and international law, thus crimes that are not obsolete. In this regard, too, this marriage is a strange farce. He spins around in a vicious circle of lies and deception. Ten times you can say that after the war, the soldiers were not soldiers. You won't change the historical facts with this. By rejecting our amendments, you have refused the opportunity to at least slightly clear the infamous part of the history of the Slovenian people. Two great lies that can be delivered and advocated only by those who fail to overcome the minimum respect for historical facts and the minimum wage to the slain prisoners of war. This law, if you accept it, will not be proud of this national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you, once again, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we accept the proposal of the War Cemetery Act as absolutely necessary and, given the reasons for its creation, its purpose comes from our firm belief in the treatment and acceptance of the National Assembly much too late. At the same time, we cannot go beyond the fact that one of the fundamental reasons for its creation stems from the decades of the singing revolution, on the basis of which one party in Slovenia has taken the absolute right to be in power. In this case, of course, it could only have been a dictatorship. To that end, she abused the domestic emotion that brought people together in the national liberation struggle against the invader and left behind her from the very beginning of the second century C.E. And all the years after it, there are graves and numerous, many mass graves of violently murdered and killed compatriots and other people. It has also left a separate society with violence-induced violence, in the nation of great trauma and to this day on this basis, which is not a good way for us to enter the European Union at the time of entry. Unfortunately, this time, too, the call of the National Assembly, which is the political body of our country, which must go beyond the social and ideological separation, when it comes to the common good of our society, cannot be so much of a moral mission that, on this occasion, on the occasion offered by the adoption of this law, this concept of the law and by which the present society is brought together with the dead on the basis of a peyote to the dead, at least mentioning the word and the appropriate place in the law to record revolutionary violence and thereby make a great contribution to national internal reconciliation and mutual reconciliation. However, after our understanding of the content and purpose of the law, the amended bill establishes a civilized attitude towards all victims and at least provides, on the basis of a basic purpose, at least as much as the non-discriminatory attitude of the State of Slovenia towards all victims. It provides for the civilisation of the graves and especially of the silent and hidden graves and their maintenance, irrespective of the circumstances of their origin. By doing so, the state of Slovenia is cancelling a large part of the historical debt to issues of our immediate past. From this purpose and mission, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will largely, or rather, support the law. It will also support the establishment of a legal basis for the implementation of a number of procedures, which are a prerequisite for the implementation of the basic mission of this law and also a prerequisite for all investments in this area that have financial coverage already in this year's budget of the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u125	Respectable present. According to the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a law is a poor compromise. Weak compromise by both the contractors of the material and those who support the law. According to our assessment, the draft law should follow only one point, that is the history that has taken place in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. And the history that has taken place in the area of the Republic of Slovenia is known to all of us. Known both within our country and in the international environment. The fact is, two were involved in World War II: the bad guys and, of course, the positives. And that today this National Assembly is adopting a text that wants to equalise the two groups, we find it unacceptable within our political party. We estimate that by adopting this law you will evaluate all values of independence during the national liberation war. We also estimate that, at the possible adoption of the law, you will deny the historical facts of the existence of partisans and freedom fighters and, on the other hand, glorify those who attacked this country by throwing them together. And we also estimate that with the possible adoption of this law you will deny national liberation. The general provisions of the proposed law are, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party as a whole, unacceptable to the general provisions. According to our assessment, it would make sense to replace the first article, which speaks of war graves and to exclude a proposal that discusses postwar events. Article 2 of the Military Cemetery. According to our assessment, you are the proponents and those who will support this law by enacting the law and thus, of course, Article 2 also leveled the aggressor, the occupier and the one who defended this country. And we know exactly who defended this country, and we know exactly who attacked it. I think that the equations or equations of these two groups of one, all praiseworthy, should by no means be equal. By this law, by our assessment, compare them. And, of course, paragraph 4. According to our assessment, the period referred to in Article 4 should be strictly recorded, this is the period of war, when it begins and when it ends. We also assess that the proposaler has exceeded the name of the law or the content of the law and thus seeks to achieve only one, this rotten compromise, with which you probably expect government Members to appease history. History doesn't have to calm down, history is clear to all of us! And why start a debate that's depressive in my opinion if we all know history?Oh, my God! The fact is, unfortunately, someone is trying to gain a quinente or electoral base through this law through all the Roma poms around this law. It's very sad that at the expense of the dead, someone is trying to gain an election base. And it is even sadder to find people who want to equalize all the participants in every way, both those who were aggressors and those who beat freedom at the cost of their own popularity or at the cost of a future that they do not even understand in Europe. The fact is, the whole modern world knows the history of World War II, knows the course of that period, knows why that period came about, for what reasons, and who resisted it. In the Slovenian National Party of Slovenia we really do not understand the individual part of the Slovenian government. However, so that we do not come forward later - and if there is no need, I would not be able to comment - would also be defined by the amendment tabled by the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democrats to Article 7, which, of course, seems even more unacceptable to us than the law itself. For the fact that in Article 7 we would also define an organization with an MVAC shortcut; what sounds like an anti-communist voluntary militia in Slovenia, or as the amendment's amendment proposes in other words, the anti-communist militia is an organization that is defined as a criminal organisation in all international journals - and so the material should contain our law! It's totally unacceptable! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law is inappropriate, that we should not play with history and that we should not compare the participants - so again, I stress - to those who have chosen freedom and to those who have attacked us. Let there always be a separation and let history be clear. History also teaches us in the final stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. It is clear to all and it is probably not appropriate to acknowledge that this law has become more than just a technical regulation of the regime for the protection of war graves. Even though his intention at the outset was precisely that, during the entire debate, it has proved that there may also be some kind of excuse or even an opportunity to redefine or at least to awaken our past, which, according to some history, should have been written unilaterally and not objectively. In this regard, this law has taken on more burdens of cleansing purposes and reconciliation than it really does. On the one hand, some want to announce history, censuses, scientific findings, museum collections and archives. We hear that the writers of history have not told us everything or that they have told us wrong. We also listen to the discreditation of those who resisted fascism or occupation because they were supposed to use it later. On the other hand, the law seeks to bring peace, reconciliation, and so-called worthy burial of the dead, regardless of the ways to the grave of one and the other, civilians and soldiers, fighters on the one hand and on the other. The law thus turned into some kind of moral debt to the living to the dead, for only then could the past truly become the past. That the dead will no longer burden the living. And that's exactly what his added value is, or even his real value. This kind of dialogue has not been in the political space and is not yet without valuable judgments, idealistic burdens and attempts to redesign the past. In calls addressed to Members, I am still reading complaints today that they have graves, I quote, "anti-revolutionary military units special, lower status and false names and meaningless inscriptions." Next - "that it is a law dictated by the heirs of partisan violence," then - "that it is a unique state disgrace and a new deception of the Slovenian people." Of course, that's not true. Because during the long-term course of lawmaking, there was a significant shift in the extremely sensitive formulation of the text that he lost, threw out, cleared out that uncritical posthumous assumption that he had made at the beginning or a good year ago. The text was also written to cities from the point of view of the winners or from a logic that did not recognize the same status as itself to its opponent. Today, however, we do have a text that does not make judgments about belonging and that does not categorize who was on which side. We have a text about an attempt to respect the dead, who cannot afford to forgive the sins, crimes, and decisions of those who have decided at a certain time in history just as they have. The state must treat them as dead, we must not forgive them, and we must not ascribe anything else to them. Historic memory is preserved by professions, archives, history, museums, institutes, and the earth makes bones. Thus, the law merely separates a soldier from a civilian and at the same time defines those persons who were killed as war victims because of their national, racial, religious or political affiliation. And not only during the war but also after it, when executions took place in contravention of the principles and rules of the rule of law, that is, mostly in an out - of - court procedure. In fact, the darkest part of our history, about which people today find it difficult to speak, fear has grown and silenced them, requires the most research, including the arrangements or markings of graves. For these cemeteries, many with yet unidentified bones, are the obligation not to say, the debt of us craftsmen, who we have always suspected of having yet another truth, but we have never really dealt with it. Partizan graves are more or less arranged, described and guided as objects belonging to a cultural and natural heritage, but they do not have any less peace. In the general interest of celebrating and seeking confirmation in the absolute right of those who have not gone to the side of the anti-fascist struggle, political niches are now sought at the expense of the guerrilla resistance to disqualify the free fight. It's happening again, this time symbolically, killing. The War Cemetery Act is not an instance of the truth. Don't talk about collaborators, not criminals, not winners. Each of them lost his own battle. Each person is his own beliefs, desires, mistakes, wrong decisions, or even none of this pays with death, and this violent death. And that is what this law says: About death and what death means to us who are alive and responsible for today and, above all, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. The story of this undoubtedly important law, yet not so important that it took so many years to spend on it, is not an honor for our country. We regret this in the Party of Young Slovenia, although we respect and welcome the intention that this law has been adopted by consensus; however, there are limits. It is clear that we have two sides and that there is no compromise between these two sides that is neither visible nor expected. At the same time, the dead are abused for daily political purposes. For the Young Slovenia Party, the matter is clear. We support the bill proposed by government parties. We think he's suitable. The human party has played a role here as a lawyer or a weighting of right political views, so the proposal is actually a compromise proposal. Ideology and division on the left, on the right is problematic. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are committed to ideological non-burdens, especially if ideology comes from history, not from current economic and social policies. It is time to finish the story of the war graves, forget all ideological and valuable judgments, and move clearly forward. After more than 50 years, it's time to embrace history, just like it is, and start looking to the future. That is why we will support the proposal. Postwar events are obviously the essence of the problem for some, but only for some. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are convinced that citizens in the vast majority support a solution such as a bill, and want to forget the dark salaries as soon as possible. That for some postwar events there is revolutionary violence - it is true; and it is also absolutely true that during the war some have fallen on the side of foreign forces, but we do not write it on monuments. In the Party of Young Slovenia we will support the law because we believe that this is the maximum possible consensus on the issue of war graves, which undoubtedly needs to be definitively solved. With this law, we will deal definitively, comprehensively and non-discriminatoryly with the issue of war graves, both partisans and victims of post-war beatings. By adopting this law, we want to end the 12-year debate and opposition in SMS and maintain a respectful attitude towards the dead so that we can bury them with dignity. This issue needs to be solved so that in Slovenia we can end the use of tragic historical facts for the day-to-day political gathering of client points and thus prevent the redistribution or increase the intolerance of our citizens. The historical events dealt with by this law must not be divisive, but must be a reminder whose mistakes should not be repeated in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of all parliamentary groups. We will now turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Only one amendment has been tabled on the amended proposal for the War Cemetery Act, namely the amendment to Article 7, of which the two proposed groups are members of Parliament, namely the New Slovenia Group and the Socialist Party's Group of Members. This will limit the debate to Article 7 and to the amendment tabled. They propose that Article 7 should be extended in the basic form to identify the types of war graves and that the amendment should define the concepts under Article 7. In order to add three new paragraphs defining the concept of a military person, war and post-war events, the following content is added: "Militaries are members of the German, Italian, Hungarian, Yugoslav army and fighters in the NOB, members of anti-communist fighting formations such as Slovenian patriots, the Royal Army and anti-communist militias and members of other foreign armies. The war is II. World War II, which lasted from 6.4.1941 to 9.5.1945 in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The postwar events are the killings of refugees from the territory of the former SFRJ, the killings of prisoners of war, members of the anti-communist army returned from the Austrian Koroška, the killings of German and Italian nationalities and the killings on a class basis, carried out without previous judicial proceedings." In the first four paragraphs, the applicants follow the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Your Honor! Your Honor! I am opening a debate on Article 7 and on Article 7 as amended. The groups of Members shall be limited in the debate to the time they have notified for discussion under this Article and the amendment tabled. I am opening the debate and asking who wants to discuss it. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7 refer to the type of war graves. Today, it has already been said that this law was designed for a greater purpose for all of us. This is not a classic marriage text that would say how the area of war graves will be regulated in Slovenia. Today it was also said that the Slovenian People's Party acted as a right-wing lawyer within the government coalition. Today, also in the performances of honourable fellow Members, it was clear that everyone who appeared to have understood that the bill did not clear all ideological and valuable judgments, such as those of the committee led by respected colleague Brenčič, presented his ambition by a representative of the government. All fellow Members know that there are many ideological and valuable judgments in this law. It can't be any different. When the national assembly solves these questions, they cannot be solved because they are here and now because they are part of us because they are our burden. And in a way, it's also an honest confession. The National Assembly, when adopting laws on war graves, does not adopt a technical law, but adopts a very difficult legal matter that talks about Slovenian divisions, about Slovenian traumas; it speaks of the fact that Slovenian society, after 13 years of independent state, has not yet fully achieved so much internal unity that today all fellow Members of Parliament would say: we support this law. Finally, as a member of the government coalition, I was proud of the first term, the first half, the first half of the time the government adopted a special statement under this law. Unfortunately, the government of Master Anton Rope no longer had the power to continue and adopt a law that would be in the light of that statement. The government's statement of years ago is a major act of the first half of this coalition and the role of the People's Party was important here. Today, before this law is passed, we are in a difficult situation. We will not oppose the law. We will support him, I think most of the fellow Members of Parliament. But with bitterness in his heart. The political coalition, which was given a mandate, had an excellent opportunity to be able within itself the necessary political courage to go a little over and today to propose such a law that Members of Parliament from New Slovenia and Social Democrats simply have to say: we also support it. This coalition had the chance. But when we put two solutions on the scale: the right to burial, to the grave, to the recognition of man as a person, and on the other hand, what does it say on this grave, what kind of inscription follows this grave, what kind of inscription proclaims that there is a human person - we say, take the first step. Let's bury them. And we invite them to a Slovenian stay. In Slovenian company. And we did it. And the time will come, colleagues and colleagues, when we may also have more political courage in writing, perhaps even more nobility, and we will also do human and political duty there. With today's law, I myself have somehow concluded almost a decade's effort to fulfil my human duty in this area as a politician, as a young, unburdened Slovenian politician; someone coming from the Partisan Church will do so and today will vote in favour of this law. However, if I am still a Member, Slovenian or European, I will strive to perhaps add some shortcomings in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Given the fact that the key amendments on the committee have been rejected, there is now an amendment before us that is supposed to somehow try to repair the patchwork that is now ahead of us. As has been said, these are two basic lies contained in the law. First, a lie about revolutionary violence. The law denies him, he won't admit it, and I think it's one of the things that shouldn't just pass us by. In fact, if you allow me, I have before me the daily command of the Army of State Security from 1944, where it is quite clear that the first task of their activities was to exterminate the internal enemy, and only in second place was mentioned the expulsion of the invader from our country. Gentlemen, who keep repeating that we want to make history, let them listen to the quote of Titus, who in 1972 said, "It was similar in Slovenia, it was such a civil war, but we didn't want to talk about it during the war, because it wouldn't do us any good." Gentlemen, there was a time when we should not have talked about revolution and revolutionary violence, there was a time when we then called the markets, the streets after the revolution - the market of revolution is also behind us - but now is the time when we should not talk about it, because it would not be good for anyone. However, I think it would be good for the Slovenian people to talk about it and to clean up Slovenian history. The second lie I made was that after the war the prisoners were not soldiers and did not deserve - as this law says - the honors of the military cemetery. In 1945, the Slovenian rapporteur wrote as follows: "Kranj, 1st June 1945. These days he arrived from Celovac to Kranj transport from 1550 Belarusians, who were handed over by allied military authorities as prisoners to our authorities. This is another transport within two days, and the forecast is new. There are over 100 officers among the prisoners and so on." That's when our authority recognized these people as soldiers. I'm not saying anything. I'm not saying anything. I'm not saying anything. That's when she admitted it. Gentlemen, I have here a photocopy of a military ledger of another living Vrchničan. He was at the homestead, and in 1948/1949 he served as JNA, and in his military book, he writes: Early War of Service. And it says: in what army and how much. According to the section: Slovenian janitor for 3 months. Kind of military: infantry. Act: a fighter. And those three months were recognized to him. JNA in 1950, when she betrayed and branded this war booklet, acknowledged his status as a soldier. We, gentlemen, can't admit it to these killers. Is that the pie you're referring to? Is this respect for historical facts? Is that respect for these people? One wonders about this misdirection, especially when you define the inscription on these graves without asking those who loved these people, who still go to the graves to light candles; their relatives, their legally legitimate advocates, their advocates, because even after death they have the death right, says the last Rapporteur. 78 Human Rights Watches, our Ombudsman, in the 2001 Job Report, have the right to be represented by their loved ones after death. That's what they say, people around here represent their rights and lawyers are dead. And again, I ask whether it is the respect of the dead that the inscription on their grave is decided by people who have a negative attitude towards the dead, not to say an hateful relationship. Why should it not be up to those who loved the dead who were still living Slovenes — their relatives, their legal representatives? I will never demand that anyone else decide on the inscriptions on partisan graves as their relatives and perhaps the Association of Fighters. But this is a different cemetery, and we should show some pieté. Once again, this law will be a great shame, a great shame for this Slovenia and this national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Allow me to say in kind, as you have agreed to say, so that you can be prepared for the debate. Mr Drobnič, Mr Bernik, Mr Zląbec, Terčon, Sok, Zupan, Zalokar and Anderlič. Mr Žnidaršič, you now want the word, or you will want it now, please. [[...]] The representative of the Government may take the floor in the context of the word whenever he wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I would like to make a prediction as a government representative that I will not dispute the content that does not concern this law, nor do I participate in a debate that goes beyond the content of the law, but in defending the bill on the part of the government, I should say that the harsh revelations are in terms of a speech about lies, stupidity. In fact, to tell the government that it is lying in this law only because it does not clear history and because it does not make it possible to read what some would like to read, but I do not belong to it, cynicism is unprecedented and, of course, I must express complete and absolute opposition in this regard. And another thing I'm going to talk about is the question of the family. The law indisputably states that if the relatives were found to be buried, or if the remains of their loved ones were found and identified, they would have the full right to bury them in their own way and put them in their graves and write what they want. Therefore, it is not true that relatives will not be asked or that they will not have this option. Of course, Imaginary property does not know any legal arrangements, just so that anyone could claim to be of any kind, and the law, of course, could not and could not and should not have been defined. So I would ask that such accounts, of course, refer to what is actually written in the law, not to what someone did not want to read or understood because these things are very, very human and very righteously set up in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Tukjat, you estimate that the government representative misinterpreted your debate because you were first.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u137	I believe that the government representative misinterpreted my word and my claim of lie, because he did not understand my argument, if the law says that the post-war graves do not have the status of a military cemetery, and if after the war the prisoners of war were soldiers, then of course this law includes a position that means a lie to me. And, of course, I would like a government representative to understand this explanation, and he is also trying to understand the matter correctly, because the things that are embedded here are quite clear for all those who have a bit of interest and truthfulness.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič spoke next. Here you go. You didn't discuss it before, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, government representative. So what Mr. Government Representative has said is cynicism of the greatest kind. I will also start with this because it also refers to the amendment that the family should look for their loved ones, with no data, the archives are closed or destroyed and now the family should look for their neighbors at their own expense and their own fist, and the law says so at their own expense and that if they want to do anything, they must also arrange this land and I do not know what else. In this way, of course, it is not possible to regulate such an important topic on the part of the State. In view of all of this, it would certainly be best to allow the family to go through the country, directly, according to international conventions: arrange the cemetery, arrange the monument and arrange the inscription. I am perfectly convinced that my family would give a completely undeniable inscription. Some raise the question that I do not know what to write, and that is why there is also a suggestion in this law that certain titles are not allowed to be used. First, the amendment refers to the right to a military grave. Under this law, the right to a military grave will not even have to be killed by soldiers, disabled people at the Ribnica. These are also foreign soldiers, domestic soldiers, and, of course, we will come into conflict directly with international conventions. Slovenia must not afford such a law. We have already warned and people need to be reexplained or told: Such a law must not be adopted. You wrote down "warring events." We wrote down revolutionary violence. A postwar event is a truly ideologically undeniable concept, but it is completely empty. It's completely empty. This would be as if the victims of concentration camps were the victims of war. Something like that. In fact, the monument expresses the fifth and, on the other hand, has a message, a thought message that something like this would never happen again and what the reason is. I don't know, I think that revolutionary violence as such was the least at stake from the point of view of the other side, because then we should define maybe with some other concept whether it was the violence of the Liberation Front or whether it was partisan violence. One, the other, or the third; whether it was Communist violence, as we originally suggested. This would clear up and establish a relationship with what appears many times - either the NOB or the partisans. This was an opportunity to do so. You wrote "war executions," that's tautology. Execution is a concept that means, in a legal sense, execution of a death sentence. No death sentences have been issued, so this concept is not correct. We warned you: "victim of execution" is tautology. In doing so, if they do so, those who do not know about it, and we will explain to them, will smile a little bit - our indiscretions will certainly. This law is not based on the principle of equality of the dead, since it does not provide for the excavation from the abyss, identification, and burial into the grave. The identities won't reveal themselves. Without digging, a respectful burial and a respectful manner of slaughtering the graves - a disrespectful attitude towards the slain Slovenes, Christians - it is not possible to talk about graves without a cross. There's a proposal for some sort of bell, bim-bam, oriental, and it's supposed to represent a grave. This is also what the Geneva Convention provides that respect should be given to the identity of those who have been buried: nationality, religious affiliation - this is not invented by New Slovenia or by Janez Drobnič, but is enshrined in the Geneva Convention. If such a strange symbol is accompanied by a strange inscription, then everything will be strange, including our country, with such an image. It would be fitting if the government then invited representatives of the relatives or representatives of the relatives. The only organisation of the New Slovenian Commitment, which was allowed to be organised, but refused to be in the public interest, expressed its willingness to participate constructively in this, but that was not the case. In all civilized nations, burial is but a pitiful act of man, of civilisation, and the kinsmen do it. In this case, the family is prevented. Reference to that individual intervention - possible option. As the identity will by no means be established, of course, this is out of the question. Maybe in rare graves. They don't need any more violence, they've had it for 50 or 60 years. Now, with the same, with a similar measure, that they cannot influence what they write at the cemetery. It's a continuation of the same thing with similar means. The Geneva Convention could be read well and respected. The Geneva Convention is that those who have not heard of it do not have a proper feeling learn and do as we say. You have been familiar with the Convention, and you have disregarded it, and you obviously will not. Mr. Kebrich said "let those who are buried rest in peace." I completely agree with him. Then how can the victims of the brick cemetery rest in peace when the golf games are played over their bones, although in black, and no one touches. How can they rest in peace if the 45 act of Zoran Polič is still being carried out, that graves, such graves should be levelled from the ground, because these graves or other graves are still littered with garbage. It's not a civil act, it's not a state act. You have this opportunity to see at this cemetery, and of course the monument to the fall and at the same time 400 more trees were stolen. This law comes too late for some normal country. This thinking, Slovenian, seems to be coming too early. Therefore, there is something else to wait for, and in the meantime, it may be possible for the family to arrange for them to be allowed to do so. That's it. Let me read only one sentence from the New Slovenian Commitment, or part of the sentence: "The new Slovenian undertaking therefore, on behalf of the dead and their living relatives, rejects the proposal of this law and declares that it will not accept any such one as is prepared and reflected in public reports." This should be taken into account and imagined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'm surprised to hear this discussion. In fact, this would be more appropriate or could have been taken from Orwell, for such perversion does not occur every day. I would like to have amendments or amendments here, but I would like to limit myself a little bit to how this law came about. First of all, as you know, you've had 50 or more years to limit it. Where were you then? And where have you been for the last 10 years? Where? Well, nothing's moved, even though there's been a lot of experiments. Then came the Puchnik Commission, which collected a lot of material, interesting reading and 6 of you Members, one of whom is not a Member, voted, voted, voted on the report that the Puchnik Commission wanted to issue. Four of you are still sitting in this House, four of you, and one of you is trying to be a Ljubljana Mayor, not a success, I must say. Well, then it was a good signal that the whole thing wouldn't go anywhere, but you had the chance to start it all along, and then the Slovenian Bistrica came and the discovery of other graves and then the public opinion was immobilized, what and how we're going to do. None of this was done, but the law, the proposal of the War Cemetery Act -- now, I don't know what version we have. Why did the Slovenska Bistrica change that? Because the public began to take an interest in this. And the other thing is that we have to come to the European Union once, and of course the government needs this document, whatever it is, only to show it to the public, and no one will read it anyway. Now let me tell you what happened last year. Last year Mr Kučan, former President of the State, sent a letter to the National Assembly, because he did this every year, only he never came to the public, but he collected a file to show his fifth. Shortly thereafter, the government declaration was addressed in the same way as the declaration, namely, "the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the following declaration with a comprehensive plan for the organisation of graves, a comprehensive plan, mass massacres and the adoption of the War Cemetery Act", and then there are four pages of different points, etc. Let's see if you haven't. Of course, Mr Kučan said something else, namely: "Let us not let the past be taken away from us." Then he spoke pietically, etc., but, well, the Secretary of State also found out and he knew who was giving him the salary and the rest and he faithfully followed this proposal, so let's not give up our past." What does that mean? This is the past that has been written in books for 60 years now, this is the past that we are dedicating to the Czech as a sacrosanct cannot change, even though today historians have begun to think a little bit that this will have to be corrected and today the revolution has disappeared, not from monuments, etc., but has disappeared from your mind. That's how a man thinks, remembers all the tragedies we Slovenians have and have. And one wonders how it is possible that here for the 10,000 dead who have been horribly killed, we do not find so much compassion to do the right thing to bury them with honor. And you're looking for all sorts of reasons, Mr Secretary of State, and he's a technical law and he's hiding behind it, and he says there's no ideological value or evaluation in this law. Yes, for God's sake! This is based on ideological evaluation, and it is not allowed to change in any way. Let me also say that Slovenia is probably the only country in a civilized world that refused to accept the fact. Objectively then we'll all look in the mirror of those facts, and we'll see where we are and what we're guilty of. All that government talk about this declaration, about the device and all this is pure deception, because on this basis there will never be any reconciliation. Then a few more things. I'm not going to talk about these articles, which are extremely perfidious. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u142	Dr. Bernick, just a second.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u144	However, I would like to remind you that we are in the second reading and that we are in the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to this Article, so that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u146	I respectfully ask you to focus on the content of this Article and the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u147	I knew it, I knew you'd say it, I couldn't wait. Because you're so rude to say it. And I'm going to say this when we talk about these post-war events, and thank you to your advisor, yes, that these were post-war events, and I'm asking you, who would hope to record that events took place in Srebrenica and Vukovar? Who? Yeah, well, a man's gotta be crazy. I'm talking about what this marriage has done. Look, these are crimes against humanity. Crimes against humanity that never get old. If you don't believe this, you can go look at the Rome Statute, all these crimes are listed there. And I'll tell you this. I know the Rome Statute isn't applicable here, but it is true, and it makes these crimes very special, or it calls them by their real name. Then there are a few other things here that are perfidious, and I have to say, there's quite a few, and I'm not going through them, but I'm going to say this. Slovenia is today the country with the largest graves in Europe. When we advertise Slovenia as a country on the sunny side of the Alps, you might also say, welcome to the country with the largest graves in Slovenia. This may be a tourist attraction, and it will also bring to the country financial resources in which it is in such squabbles. I would end up saying about this law, as the government said it was whole, it could be for someone because they no longer have what the real fifth would give. But, of course, there is something for all the rest of you, at least a battlestone, that seems to me purely natural, paid from state finances and so on and so forth. There is no word at all about the correction of injustices, there is no word about the need to recognize the victims of the revolution that was full during the revolution, and there is no word of why 1,000 Slovenian people fell in the first year of the occupation, when there was no self-defence, and how it was possible that this was more than the number of all victims of communists or, sorry, occupation forces in our country at that time. How is that possible? Next thing you know, the government like I said is talking about the device. We would urgently need this so that we can talk to one another. "SINE IRA ET STUDIO" can also hold our own opinion, but somewhere we need to move from this point. However, I think that until the government is able to set up a commission, it will bring together some people who are upright, professionally responsible and so on to investigate the facts, the facts to investigate. Then, like I said, we can talk about the facts. Let me mention this, as far as the constituents of this law and its commission are concerned, for whatever it is they serve - more or less for the farce. The Secretary of State is in a great position to have a major conflict of interest. He is responsible for the fighting organisations and, on the other hand, for the dead. Living fighters have a great influence in our country and in the government and so on, as you all know. They don't need a special advocate, except they paid for what they were promised. But the dead have no one but the Secretary of State to take care of these matters. This is an absolute conflict of interest that we have thousands in our government and elsewhere. And until this is settled, this law will not go anywhere either. However, if the law is adopted, you can absolutely accept it without any problem, since you have a majority. But this will be the last marriage to be passed on this matter, the last marriage. Remember, as long as this majority is in government, there will be no change. I hope we can look at this thing with a little heart and think about what we're doing. None of us can say that there has been no opportunity to do this in a better way, etc., but none of you have raised their voices, so I want this law not to be adopted. I'm not gonna vote for him, and I'm gonna do everything I can to get these things into the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Zląbec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u149	In fact, it has been a long time, and no one has spoken about the problem, or extension, of Article 7. My colleague Tsukati knows that World War II in Slovenia did not end on 9.5.1945, but it took years for armed groups from the north to come to Slovenia, many people lost their lives. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u150	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u151	As far as quizzicalism is concerned. I don't know if you know the name Leo Degrelle. Probably not. Leo Degrelle was the leader of Belgian fascists in World War II, called rexists. As the leader of the Belgian quizzes, he fled to South America in time, as did most of the leaders of other quizzes in other occupied countries of Europe through the Vatican, through Spain to South America. Leo Degrelle was sentenced to death, and when he was 95 years old asking if he could come to his home country, all political parties, from first to last, said that there was no saying that they had never experienced such rudeness in their lives. This never happened to us in the first place. Leo Degrelle died in South America. They wouldn't let him die at home. As far as I'm concerned, my buddy Knocking that everyone can have an inscription on their monument as they want, of course, that's not true. The hooky cross is contrary to our legislation. It's back to Cuckati. Since the first day of the occupation Slovenianquisling began. While the old mayor Hribar fell into the Slovenian flag and jumped to Ljubljana, the Slovenian authorities rushed to welcome the Italian and German invaders. As far as the grave is concerned, it is quite clear that everyone has the right to a grave, that is the fundamental right of everyone who has done anything in life. The grave is the equalization of death and life, but it is by no means annihilation of evil or good deeds. Those who speculated that as the Quizlings would be able to join the invader and pamper until the war was over - did not help them. We could all go into the German army sooner or later, either we could move them or we could put them in labor camps. On Rab alone, 3,000 internationals died in World War II, and things were even more perverse because priests went there, and they sought out those who were on their side while others left consciously to die. This was actually a systematic massacre of Slovenian life. After all these things, I agree that the new government has lost every compass, which is right, what is wrong. The denunciation of the winners was certainly horrendous and difficult to understand, and it is even more difficult to forgive. But that is why someone who was on the other side of history at the age of 40 would want to change history to show that the side that was completely defeated on a global scale is simply in our national council, and if they show elections ten times otherwise, it will not happen that Quiscination becomes anything other than a crime to its own nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, Mr Podobnik mentioned, and some of the speakers behind him, that this law has not yet been cleared of certain ideological coatings. And that it's essentially ideological. I've had a good look at it myself, but I have to say that I haven't found any, I would say, ideological terms, no talk of fascism, antifascism, communism, anti-communism, and so on. On the contrary, I must say that the amendment to Article 7 of the two parliamentary groups introduces ideological terms and is, of course, somewhat ideologically biased. If we read only the fifth paragraph, military personnel are members of the German, Italian, Hungarian, Yugoslav and NOB forces, members of anti-communist fighting formations such as Slovenian patriots of the Royal Army and anti-communist militias and members of other armies. Therefore, I ask why the NOB fighters are not then broken down as members of anti-communist formations, anti-fascists and so on. Why, of course, if we agree that this law is intended primarily for us to give our graves to everyone and that we cannot sanction the violence that has taken place by this law, we sanction the fact that many who have fallen or died do not yet have their graves. And if we follow this in marriage, so do you agree that we want to give the grave to everyone, of course, I wonder where those communists are, if the anti-communists are in there. They're not in your amendment. And whatever we can think about them. And that's why this amendment is, in my opinion, ideological and biased. Otherwise, I think you're confident that there's still a door to open so that future stories can continue to be ideological. But I would like to point out that, as we understand it, I think we already have ideological monuments, at least with ideological features. During the postwar period, monuments were created by fallen NOB fighters, with a red star, the inscriptions "fell in antifascist combat", "fall as victims of domestic traitors" and so on. After independence, we received new ideological monuments, especially at the churches, as well as elsewhere, with a cross that says "victims of communist violence". We have these monuments, and we'll probably have them in the future. I would, Mr Secretary of State, but I would give one thought to the third reading, given that Article 3 only excludes monuments that are cared for by relatives of the fallen or buried, but to consider what will happen to these monuments, because in most cases they are monuments, monuments that are not exclusively cared for by relatives, and all the other monuments are subject to this law. Whether these monuments will continue to bear certain ideologies or fall under the provisions of this law. However, gentlemen, it would be good to go to any democratic country, by definition, since 1945, where serious crimes have also occurred since the war and have not been led by the Communist Party. Consider the experience of the Vichyan government and its members. And what does it say on these monuments - when we give some ideological qualifications. It is undeniable that everyone has the right to grave, and this right has been shortened so far, and this right is given by this law, but we do not introduce the new ideological qualifications that some would like to introduce, and therefore I will not support the amendment to Article 7.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must tell Mr Tarchoon that, of course, there is no ideological classification in this amendment. If he wants to split the NOB fighters into different formations, I don't know, by division, or how he would do it, then you know you can propose an amendment to this and we'll accept it. There's no reason not to. So I don't really understand what you mean by that. However, I would tell the Secretary of State that, in fact, there is a national assembly here and that we have the right of Members here and that you are actually a guest here in this House, not us. Even though I was born much after the war, I feel a moral duty to tell myself how I feel about it if I have the opportunity to adopt this law. I am very sad that our fathers, as well as you who are much older than me, have not settled this issue long ago. Mr. Evil Man and I were both born much after the war, and we know what they taught us in this school. I know today, as an adult citizen, that I was taught the history of the winners. I've had this opportunity, and I'm still trying to analyze it, and I'm just reading to all of us today. What we had been silenced for a long time or even forbidden to read. The second question is whether we want to learn this matter and evaluate it objectively or not. It is obvious that not because of the same untruth, and I agree perfectly with my colleague Tsukati, we are listening to the same untruth here today and are still speaking in this style that a hundred times the lie has become the truth. And this is a sad and law such as this, in fact, will be an empty law, or a generation of Members will come after us, most likely wiser than we are, and will correct such a law on the basis of historical facts accordingly. See, in this law it says, I will not be in debt in my debate, but it says that the law should allow the relatives to provide their dead with a decent burial and a burial place on the basis of indisputable identification of the remains. So, of course, this is not possible in most cases. And we all know that's not possible. I'll tell you one case that was recently published in the evening newspaper on May 26th, if I'm not mistaken. See, I will read it as it is written: "From Schterenthall, it is said, camps used by fascists during the war and imprisoned by Slovenians and used by communists after the war and imprisoned by Slovenians, after a visit to the Red Cross the convoy with children was taken to Ormoška Castle. Mothers could have gone with children under five years of age, and Theresa and her brothers had to leave their mother in the camp. Theresa was six years old, and the brothers were a little older, but all were still children. The children were ripped out of their mothers saying they were taking us to Siberia. We cried that we were running out of breaths, recalls Theresa Tomažič." The name of the surname is written down by the lady and also painted in the newspaper. "They put us in cattle cars. Through the door of cattle cars, we screamed: hungry, hungry. Grapes, bites and full ears led us to Ormoška Castle. The next morning, they cooked us a pot of corned-up power. We could eat as much as we could. A lot of starving children were then eaten to death." Those of you who are doctors in this House may know what action it was. Where are these kids buried? Who's gonna identify their remains? Who will mark it, and what will it say on this monument? Even though the family would survive, the brothers or sisters would find and want to mark this cruel act or their graves properly, they would have to write what is determined by that authority, not what they themselves would want. And so, of course, in this case it is not possible to talk about the adoption of this law on a consensus. For those who pursue this matter have not cooperated in the formation of this law. So this is a law that will be enforced by the government with the help of a majority in this House, but such and similar laws, of course, cannot cover the truth. The truth is undeniable. If we don't admit it today, she'll come after us if not for a year or five years or ten years. But I'm sure she'll come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The word has Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would like to refer to the amendment to Article 7, which speaks or defines concepts and speaks of graves. I come alone from that part of Slovenia, from Notranjska, where there is a large number of silent graves. We were born after the war as pioneers, along with a companion at the festivals, and we visited and lit candles on partisan graves. At that time, we had no idea that some had lost their loved ones but did not know where they were buried. This was only talked about quietly, rustled, but we learned of the killings without the right to trial and without the right to grave. As a Member, I had the opportunity to listen to a large number of stories from that period in my office. Real events took place in the preparation of claims for the correction of injustices. The sad tales of people in mature years who have experienced those difficult times, especially as children, have not yet been born, taken away by their father, mother, or brother, and sister who have not returned, their struggle for survival, and at the same time their fame. I'm aware, I'm also their Member of Parliament. That is why I wonder even more rightly what my country is like, what my country wants to join the circle of democratic countries, and after more than 50 years, it has not yet been civilised by its dead. I will be able to answer people who are painfully asking: Where is my father buried? Where's my mother? And where's my sister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would also like to argue with my colleagues and colleagues about the amendment to Article 7 on certain things. The first thing that seems to me to have been said very flatly today is that the government of President Rob is supposed to have completely changed course according to the bill that we discussed last year. I don't think that's true. The Commission, which dealt with military graves and was designed by the government, worked in exactly the same composition. And no matter how many words have been spoken here today, that they have made a squabble, and yet I, on behalf of that part of the Members and Members who think they have done a great deal of work, say all the respect and also in some way thank you for the corrective product that is here and tried to get as close as possible to finally getting to this room. Because my assessment is that people have already made up their minds that citizens and citizens of Slovenia have made a difference significantly more than political parties in this House. And among humans, this topic is not as topical and has no weight as some may think. In fact, the government's course has remained the same and the proposal that we have now, the new form of text that we have before us, is actually exactly the same as last year and what change cannot be discussed. Another point I would like to stress is that, of course, it is clear to me, in view of the discussions of some colleagues, that the expectations of everyone in this law have not been met. Many wanted and expected, as is clear from today’s debates, that the law would be written for a new history. That was clearly said today. That he may even revalue and rehabilitate certain acts and be determined by that unfortunate time. My assessment is, and I think it's been said several times today that it's not a law that writes history. And history will continue, research will take place, archives will open. And we don't close or close this story. But this is the law of a worthy burial of the dead. But I think that some in this room don't want this country to finally wash this, I'm going to say, this stain to settle this matter with dignity. This is a matter of equal status and equal treatment for all victims. And I think the law has achieved this ambition. But it is not what some have expected of the same status, as regards the actions of these victims during their lifetime. But some of us just can't let that happen. The law cannot morally and materially rehabilitate anyone. What most of us, as a Parliament, want, in particular, is the multitude of those who follow the newly discovered graves and graves every day after the war of the dead and the slain, that the country marks the graves, to make sure that the dead are identified with names and surnames, and to make its contribution to national reconciliation. If I say it in a banal way, then the marriage will not talk about why and how someone died and came to some grave, but about how this grave will be taken care of. Those who expect more and more from marriage, therefore, often do not even think about the dead, the graves, and the pieta, even though they are full of mouths and, above all, speculatively expect some benefits for the living. And he wants to rehabilitate himself through the side door, for example, for domesticism, and I think this amendment to Article 7 is talking about it. For it is said here that this army was exclusively an anti-communist formation, but it is not said that there was also an army that worked with Nazism and fascism. It wants to devalue the national liberation fight and to equate it exclusively with the revolution and, of course, the revolution also wants to be equal to violence. I would like to speak further because I mentioned the revolution and today it has been said that some of it is being avoided and they do not want to use it anymore. Why did our client not endorse the suggestion that the graves or tombs of war and postwar death victims should be marked as victims of the revolution? If we want this law to be reconciled to try to unite, then our view is that it is crucial, that if a revolution is mentioned and it is written on these graves, it does not lead to further reconciliation. It is crucial for us, and today it was, I think, that it has been pointed out several times that the law is clearly defined, and here, in particular, I would like to point out to colleagues who do not want to hear it and are never enough to draw attention to a quote that says precisely, "that these are victims who have been executed and killed in violation of the principles and rules of the rule of law following the judgment and after an out-of-court procedure executed by the authorities and representatives of the then government in Slovenia." Speaking of revolution, this amendment wants to talk about it. I think that, however, it would not be right if we only had one idea of revolution. The concept of revolution is very different, but it is a legitimate concept in international law and also in the profession and no one wants to avoid it or say it is not. Of course, we can see the revolution very differently. The profession also has different connotations, different definitions and different evaluation of the revolution. One of the definitions that I have read is that the revolution is a radical change in social, political, social and economic relations and that such a change for a particular group can also be criminal, but it is also true that for another layer it may not be criminal or it may correct some former injustice of course, in this context it is very difficult to say that we have a purely and exclusively negative connotation. The essence of the revolution, as it wants to appear in this space, is not only the use of violence, although it is mostly an accompanying phenomenon of revolution, but also the fact that the revolution had some other desires. And whether the social revolution was useful or not, we will probably have a very different idea in Slovenia, if we discuss each other, whether the social revolution, which was also part of this period, was just criminal for all. Probably not. But now I would like to explain what we are repeatedly asked about and also represent a great compromise, I think. Our country, as Mr Bernik has discussed, will, in fact, be the only one to care for the graves of the invaders. There is no such case after the analysis we were able to read in the introduction of the law in Europe. Neither in France nor in Norway nor in Belgium or similar countries. But I think it's right that our country has decided by this law to take care of these graves as well. Because in these countries these graves were not destroyed, they were not silenced, and I think this is the biggest step I personally see in this sense of compromise and reconciliation in Slovenia. In that we have decided, however, to care for these graves, that this is moral and fair, because it has been for decades that we have been looking at this flaw, this injustice, this crime, in some ways very non-civilisational. Therefore, it is only right that we now take care to correct this. And I think that this marriage has enough elements of reconciliation and I think that it will be the one who will actually go deeper, I will say, I will see in it, too, and I am not ashamed to support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u161	It would be difficult to list all the meetings, all the discussions, all the attempts in the framework of the National Assembly and also the governments that have been committed to settling this issue in recent years. It is certain that the law began long before Slovenska Bistrica. That the first hearing in the previous reference was held in this assembly. That this law was intended for the first time to explicitly settle military graves, and that there was later an agreement to try to settle some other issues related to so - called postwar events, whatever anyone understood. Of course, this law is intended exclusively for the setting of graves, the setting of markings and the setting of care for them. The state or government has set up a commission that has the task of caring for these graves, for these markings. This Commission, led by Mr Kovacic Persin, in which Mrs Sméměka Hribar and the other, and last but not least also Mr Tina Velinja of the New Slovenian undertaking, agreed with the content of the law, including the envisaged inscription on these marks. It later appeared in the interpretation that his colleagues disagreed with what he swore to on this committee, but this Commission, together with the government, drafted a compromise proposal and sent it into procedure. I'm sorry to hear the obvious today that the marriage is too late or too early. The law could have been adopted at the time of 90/92 and could have been adopted in the autumn of 2000, but it was not, I don't know why, I actually know. Because this is obviously necessary to get out whenever there is a need to sow some doubts, any apparent or even actual differences, cracks, resentments, and the like. This article and this amendment, not because it is the only one to this law, is actually crucial. It's crucial because it's moving away from what it's meant to be. The government has this year, however it is now said that this should be a departure from the policy already approved by the government's declaration or resolution last year, i.e. the 6th government in which Mr Drnovšek was President, the government has even the resources allocated in the 2003 budget when it is intended to settle a whole range of issues, if you will, of course, allow the law to be passed to create a legal basis for this to be done. To talk about, of course, all that has been revealed or yet to be revealed is that there is no willingness to make a political option, to mark it with dignity, and to acknowledge that it is the dead people who deserve their dignity, of course, that they are liars. It is the creation, or the instigation, of those we want to correct on behalf of this country, on behalf of this generation, to do what I believe should happen on their own. The fact that the state will take care of things that have already been set up, that is, monuments such and different, is unfortunately quite also questionable for many, because it is precisely because of the absence of some kind of legal arrangement that is quite diverse, quite everyone to himself, that it also brings a lot of doubts into the kinds of people who are now looking at things. I also know of cases where individuals were violently listed, under some of the quotations from some of the commands quoted in this National Assembly, quoted violently, I know the relatives of these people because they do not hope because of the militancy of the bearers of ideas that this must be arranged in a different way, and they are up there. So, the law has a different purpose and determination of this government, the determination of the government commission in the composition that I was talking about, that after such long coordination, after such long differences, we can actually do what is at a certain historical moment like this can be done. So, allowing the legal basis that the Commission will be, that the government, that those responsible for this, will be able to mark all the graves that are discovered, that speak of the past of this period, which no doubt also deserve to die at that time, and that is all. All other things, attempts to convert some matters that should be heard differently today, as some of them seem to say, do not, of course, have this purpose. He was accepted by compromise, which is the only thing that is possible at this time, and of course this amendment to this article, entitled Definitions of Terms, I will not support it, because of course I cannot, because it introduces concepts that are contrary to historical facts and to the ambitions of this law, which is most essential.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To deny the same right of all the dead to the grave, to speak of fair and historically accurate inscription on the grave trying to rehabilitate the dead, is prehistoric speech. Thus, the division of the dead was marked by the most prominent Slovenian writer, the winner of the Herder Prize, the writer Drago Jančar, and so marked, internationally recognized writers have always seen longer in history and seen deeper because they differ from ordinary mortals, this is confirmed by history. And if some of you laugh, laugh at your ignorance. And there was something about this kind of prehistoric talk on this side today. It was, I must say, a prehistoric speech, also the reaction of the Secretary of State, for which I think he will apologize to his family when he spoke about talking about his relatives in such a way and that his family can only write the inscription on the tomb if it is precisely revealed that they are indeed the ones. I have to say, it's an unheard-of thing. Do Dachav's descendants, the family of Dachav's victims, have the right to write on a tablet for their relatives to die as victims of this revolutionary terror? I hope, Mr Secretary of State, that during this time you have realized that you have insulted your relatives. Are the thousands of kinsmen who stand before the cranberry pit, or in the Tehars, imaginary kinsmen, talking about imaginary kinsmen? Come on, let's be respectful of our relatives and the dead. In this debate, I thought today that it would go, not a prehistoric direction, because it was by a party representative who was somehow a political successor to a party that kept talking about the revolution, said to be repeated with the Hribar Memorial, that it meant burying the killed to renounce hatred. I thought it would come from that. But the fact is, obviously, I think that these, this party or these predecessors, 20 years after the war, could have renounced revolutionary hatred and buried themselves with the rules of the day. They then wrote their absolute power on the tombstones the inscription they had chosen at the time. And that didn't even happen 40 years after the war, and it can't happen today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u164	Mr Jerovšek [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u165	I'll finish. Let's stop speaking pretentiously. The antiquity has already recognized through the Antigon, we know this, the right to a grave, the same right to a grave and to an epitaph that said, "A traveler who passes by, exists, etc. "Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Črnugelj has the floor and then Mr Rokavec and Mr Potrč have notified themselves. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. All the debate so far has shown that it is difficult for the law itself to correct injustices and reconciliation. For some, this is just an individual act. But I think they are, and we've done a lot so far. That we have shown that wartime acts and killings are not in any way to our pride. I think the content of the amendment is highly ideological, but they wanted to admit it or not. And that those involved in the war, due to the struggle for liberation and resistance against the invader, there is no way that we can compare it with collaboration. Therefore, it is not true that I do not want to and that in the United List of Social Democrats we want to arrange silent graves. All our actions and actions so far prove that we have always been prepared for dialogue and for extremely agreeable compromises, but the amendment offered to Article 7 is not acceptable to me. It is my desire that this law properly and respectfully address the issues of silent and hidden graves and graves, as well as to arrange a decent burial of all the dead, to arrange for the care of all hidden or silenced graves, and thus to somehow repair or pardon some of the injustices of the past. Unfortunately, I am aware that it will be very difficult to repair the void, and all the pain and suffering resulting from this, to anyone proud of the actions. They're wounded and they'll stay. But I deeply hope that we will show that we are able to demonstrate all of these people's pietote and that we will also allow all our people a decent place to return, return and remember their dearest relatives and close acquaintances. However, I would like to stress once again that I agree and demand that a petition to the dead require that the State finally grant the right to grave to those to whom a violent death has been committed and, however defined as executed, killed and not know how else, has been silenced and, unfortunately, the graves of some have even been banned. That's what we said, admitted, and I think that's enough. Since the relatives of these persons for decades were unable to arrange and care for their graves, we also agree that these graves can be arranged and actually cared for by the state. I think we can admit it and say it's a big action. It is a fivefold attitude towards all deaths and the same status in time, and not the same time, during their lifetime. We take care of graves and do not make valuable judgments, let us not work on this political issue, because outside this hall and outside this house very few people want to discuss it at all. They are more interested in day-to-day, day-to-day issues, because they find it difficult, very difficult to spend every day, and we have talked about these social problems. What we have been doing for 10 years, some have been asking questions in the debate. A lot. I think we have maintained a careful and very respectful dialogue, that we have shown that we know how to talk and that we have all learned from this conversation, and you and we, and I do not know who else, have learned much. I think that by acting when we adopt this law, we will show that we know how to talk and that we are actually a democratic country that can also solve these problems. What else did we do? We did a study that scientists used for three years to actually decipher a number of acts and figure out what actual victims were. We can be proud of this because it is not a European country except the country of Furlania, which has such a study. What else did we do? This was an act and a request of the National Assembly, we published a book, but no matter what the assessment of some will be, "Key characteristics of Slovenian politics in the years 1929 - 1955. This is a scientific report, a lot of co-authors not to quote names, including very different colors and also different customers. So I think we can be proud that we have done something in these 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Today, it has been repeatedly said that the ambition of the bill's proponents was, it is said, a government to finally bury the dead and give them a worthy grave and a inscription. This was a great ambition, which was pursued by the Slovenian state - unfortunately, not as the predecessor, Mrs Črnugljeva, said - I do not think that politics has done everything that should be done in this process. It has not acted on the process of reaching political consensus in this round. This would be a prerequisite that we could actually complete this chapter and that in fact, a truly dignified, fivefold burial of all the dead. Formally, this country is likely to do so, but I am afraid that in 20 or 30 years, or even later, our explorers may begin to wonder what were the events of the war. We've never heard of this before. It's a new concept. I, like, was born almost 20 years after II. World War II, I have heard that there has been both a national liberation struggle and a so-called anti-national liberation struggle, which is said to be cooperation with the invader, but actors and winners of the II. World War II until 1990 is always - and I attended celebrations, various celebrations, events where credits were actually shared, credits for the national liberation struggle, for the liberation of the then Slovenian people from the fascist, Nazi yoke, but at the same time it was always said that these were also the gains of the socialist revolution. That it was a socialist revolution. And I heard that until 1990. After 1990, as if the black curtain had fallen, there were no more of those words. The last government of Drnovšk has had so much courage, I admit, here has taken a big step forward that, at least in its declaration and then in the proposal to this national assembly of the previous version of this law in the second reading, it has also acknowledged that the revolution has taken place. In particular, I am concerned that when we try to regulate and complete an action, I am concerned that it will be possible to arrange and bury silent victims and, at the same time, to give a message that is very open, which will raise a lot of questions: what were the post-war events in this area. What were the post-war executions? And I wonder why we don't have the power to admit it now, and to write it on these labels, on the message labels, too. I am afraid that by trying to resolve some of the issues in this history that we should have resolved in the Slovenian people a long time ago, we will be opening up new questions. I am sure that we are asking very little of this today. And what Dr. Bernik's colleague said, what would happen is, say, in Srebrenica or Vukovar, that there were so-called war events. Or if, for example, we were told that war events were taking place in Dražgoš, there were war events at Pohorje. The messages are very different! And I think we're ashamed of history and if we're not able to look history in the eye and tell the truth, then I don't think we're going to do all the work we could do on this path. To those who need to be buried with dignity and who need to be given a real message on their monuments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. History has been to the Slovenians not to talk about individuals, very criminal, very cruel, and it is probably right to try at least a fraction of what happened to them to correct them. However, let us understand that it is simply not possible to believe that every word you say is sincere without understanding the real meaning of certain proposals. Look, when we're talking about issues of various tragic events, I have to say that there are thousands of stories on this side as well, killed in concentration camps, killed in prisons, evicted, interned and similarly written, because thousands of these fates have gone through, and it's probably not meant to be read here today anyway. I think we are all happy that the Commission for Silent Graves, with the help of the government, has reached a united opinion. I am pleased that so, many stages have passed, we have had different views in individual stages, we know that some of the proposals that you would think today would be ideal, we were also ready to accept earlier, you did not then accept. That's what it was. But today we have a proposal as it is, and it appears to be decided upon. The proposal, such as the one in Article 7, should be understood, is not just a good day. The day is about to change some objective facts, as we see them, we read, we know. I do not want to talk about the fact that it is not possible to talk about anti-communist fighters, especially not when I look at the position and thinking of an individual, how he felt about his position. However, if this is what he wants to do and this is how he wants to do it, then the opposite is to speak only of Communist fighters, then it is a pure falsehood. It's a lie. Because these anti-communist fighters were also co-occupiers, and those you want to associate only with communist fighters were also a national liberation army that fought against the invader. And that is why the desire you have with the amendments in Article 7 smells like creating a real picture, an objective picture, no matter how each of us can continue to feel certain things the way he sees them. And also underlining, your emphasis on the inaccuracies of postwar events. Yes, you can speak of the fact that if you overlook that the content of this is provided for in Articles 4 and 16 you may inadvertently silence this, that in Article 4, it explicitly states that executions after conviction or after an exodus procedure were committed by the authorities and representatives of that authority. This means unlawful, which means the execution committed by the authorities without the execution of a legal proceeding. That's a description of that post-war event. And in article 16, he also speaks of postwar executions, so talking about not being described is simply not true. And I would end up, unfortunately, saying that perhaps not quite by the end of the ideal solution, you are not ready to accept that it would not be possible to stop talking about the time finally come when we have arranged this necessary thing, because you would prefer it not to continue to be arranged and that sad and tragic history can be used and abused even for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much. And Mrs. Zalokar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that we are talking very widely today in this part about certain matters and what this country is and what this government or governments have done in the last ten years in relation to, I will say, the correction of the injustices of the postwar or 50-year system - whatever. I think it is right, however, that this country is still as barbaric, non-civilisational and I do not know how it has not settled these matters. I think it is necessary, however, to mention the three laws that have been adopted during this period and which, in my opinion, have in particular corrected many of the injustices of the war and postwar period. This is certainly a denationalisation law, which has in some ways gone as far as possible in Europe and even many countries recognise that, of course, the burdens are such for the next generation as not even a developed country like Germany - such a declaration has been published a long time ago. Then it's a law on the victims of war violence, and then there's the law on the correction of injustice. I think that these laws have brought something and they have shown that this country, this government, whatever it has been, because in all this period of those 10 years, there has been a lot of work done in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Let me tell you in order and that I did not miss anyone: Mr Juban, Mr Žnidaršič, Mr Bernik and Mr Drobnic. Here you go, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u176	Excuse me, Mr. Bernick. Mr Juban was before you, then Mr Žnidaršič, Mr Bernik, Mr Drobnic. Here you go, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm afraid it won't take a minute. I'd rather sign up for an explanation of vote. Let's keep Comrade Bernick going.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Znidarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. In any case, I was obliged to explain my family. Far from saying it, it makes absolutely no sense to give me an eyewitness so that I don't respect the relatives of the dead. I feel the least sadness for them, too, that when I count down my loved ones, there was a death of some kind. But the Commission also discussed whether and how it would reflect the wishes of the relatives in writing, and it proved that such a legal provision would have no effect because it was some 100,000 relatives, some of whom would always be found who would not have been satisfied with a certain solution. For this reason, I spoke of the imagination of the relatives in the sense that it would be difficult to reach the exact same starting point in all cases where their wish was to be included in the inscription. On the other hand, we have not found a case in any law of any country where the family would decide or dictate the inscription on the monuments paid and placed by the State. And precisely because it is impossible to expect any inscription to be in line with all possible or all current owners, the State has decided on a neutral inscription that does not offend anyone, does not attack anyone, makes no statement to anyone and accepts the thinking of the government commission, which has also accepted the content proposed in order to avoid various controversy on the account of the inscription. And that's why we think this inscription is acceptable to everyone. However, as far as postwar events are concerned as they are supposed to be defined in the amendment to Article 7, the government opposes this amendment by arguing that postwar events and during war events will still be widespread and will, if necessary, continue to be recorded in history, they will not be able to clear up postwar events in this law. Of course, we may have chosen a seemingly inappropriate term, but it is such that it does not offer a basis for any, I would say, controversy or valuable judgment. And that's why we think he's been adopted. I tell you that the coordination of the different terms in the individual articles of this law has been extremely difficult, because everyone had to be enlightened on a number of aspects, and this is what the Commission has been doing all the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will not dispute with the Secretary of State, but I think it would be his duty to oppose the government for the dead as well. Okay, but what I'm saying is, I forgot before. Look, this marriage is not going to end the grieving of the family. This is one of the most basic things where human nature requires. After 50 years, they were persecuted and so on and so forth. They have no opportunity to end their mourning, other countries do so, and it is clear that nothing will change here with this law. But let me say this, if you vote for it, for this law, and not for 'no', each of us would earn it, even though I don't want anyone to go alone or anyone close to us through this suffering. And then maybe you'll understand what this is all about. And with that, I end up hoping we'll be this marriage. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. And also the last debater to take the floor, Mr Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the first time, I strongly and very clearly object to the Secretary of State. You represent the government here, you can have your views, but you can express them anywhere else. In particular, you answer in the context of the government. The second thing is: writing -- you've united. Listen, the family has united in all the tombstones without problems, and so would we now be united, but you haven't asked them any questions. But this time, you can look your family in the eye. I am my own, and I can tell you in this position that what you said today is unprecedented cynicism. How am I supposed to go to Teharje, sweep 30 meters of trash, walk another 20 meters of mud, and search for bones? You can't handle it that way. If the state decides in a civil way, let it do it as it should. I could also ask for an opinion on my cousin's inscriptions. In short, this way, of course, you're not going anywhere. It would be much better not to do so, but to allow and allow people to do it themselves in those circles, in the circles of relatives or in the associations of relatives, as they have already done. Now they can't do it. I thank you for what you said, but that's not worthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u185	Of course, it would not remain unanswered or inexplicable. The Commission, set up by the Government, has been one of the governments before, and has been perfecting, changing, and has the task of marking that it is properly regulated. No one, but there were no obstacles until now, if anyone wanted to do it alone, so are the relatives. If the various commissions were working - it's not true! Go around this country and you will see that there are monuments, landmarks and so on, which have been placed on various committees and groups, on churches, on burial sites and so on. The whole species, even the species, such as the partisan organisations used to build the partisan monuments, were also set up by others. Now it's about the state, the Commission taking care of it, paying the costs and so on. That's what this law is about. So do I.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I think you still have time at your disposal, Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u187	Mr. Anderlich, I have to object to you, replicate. You talk about tombstones or memorial markings, and the law speaks of tombs. But you can't go into the cemetery. You have nothing to do with this. It's possible the state's attorney, if he has the will. But this state's attorney, the Attorney General, has done no harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I'm closing the debate. We will vote today at 6 p.m. on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. A representative of the government, and I thank you all for your contributions. We'll continue at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u189	It is time for us to conclude today with decisions on the agenda items that have been discussed all day in this great debate room. I'm gonna wait a few moments for you guys to sit in the bench. I will ask you very nicely if you check the voting devices immediately at the beginning of the vote. This warning is not superfluous because we are already used to the fact that, at the start of the vote, objections arise when one does not work, but it is only that the card is not properly filed. Please be so kind as to check the voting devices again. We'll move on to one. POINT AND DECISION ON THE DRAFT DECISION proposed yesterday by our fellow Member, Dr. Bayuk, to the National Assembly at the point of the parliamentary question and initiative. The decision reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to Dr. Andrey Bajuk's question on the responsibility of the government to prevent and detect economic crime." Please explain your voice. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u190	I would suggest, on a procedural basis, Mr President, that you wait two minutes if you could have Comrade Bayuk join us. He's on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u191	I'll explain it this way. One of the principles of working under the new Rules of Procedure is to start work, working bodies, and especially the National Assembly, exactly. With this, the rules are the same for everyone and no one is waiting. Dr. Bajuk knew that at 6 p.m., the vote would begin and his proposal would be decided. Please, Mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll explain my voice. Corruption in Slovenia is not something entirely common. Corruption in Slovenia is the result of legislation adopted by this national assembly, which fails to comply with international standards, rules of good practice, and this also arises because it is not necessary for laws to be properly regulated or adopted. However, another reason for corruption is, of course, the lack of political will and inadequate controls. Control mechanisms that we have repeatedly stressed if this ruling coalition decided to allow representatives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u193	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u194	or proposed by the opposition, they would not face such problems. [[...]] And even the ruling coalition itself would not be in such difficult situations as it is now. Of course, I'm not here to help her out of this, but it's my duty to do everything that's good for Slovenia. Of course, I will support such a decision as my fellow Member has proposed. He explained it well, made an introduction to the debate. And I think we have to confirm that. This will be welcome for Slovenia to clear up some of the points that we will come up with appropriate proposals for Slovenia to move towards a healthy economy and reduce corruption. So, I myself will vote in favour of such a decision, and I also call on others to support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u195	The National Assembly will therefore proceed to the vote on the decision. Please, Comrade Jerovšek, you want a word. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I myself agree that the Prime Minister's response to yesterday's reply to Members was inadequate, was insufficient and that the Prime Minister was avoiding the truth about corruption in that country. Corruption is certainly the country's largest cancer framework, because it has in fact been consciously supported by the authorities. The Head of the Anti-Corruption Office correctly found that when a party went so far as to do everything in that country, it was very difficult to get to the right tracks and that there was a huge amount of legislation being adopted in that country, which was precisely covering corruption; not without preventing it, but subsequently revealing it. Unfortunately, we are faced with such legislation, with such proposals almost daily. The Prime Minister here has tried to throw sand in our eyes by presenting a strategy, exactly the same strategy as it was presented in 1997 and never realized. According to the proposer, the party from which this comes will probably be the same again, and people are trying to convince themselves: from now on, it will be much better. Therefore, such proposals should be rejected, or such explanations should be rejected. I will support the proposal to hold a racial debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u197	My friend Sok has a word now? No, no, no. Then, my friend Pukšič. Did you pick up the phone? Would you like a word? Please, two minutes to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u198	Did you call your colleague Sok first?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u199	Comrade Sok abstained now that Dr. Bayuk had arrived.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u200	I didn't hear that because I didn't have my head turned around and I didn't see it. Well, I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will also support the proposal to hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on increasing corruption. I myself believe that the Prime Minister's response has been too straightforward and too little concrete. I believe that in the debate itself, as he pointed out or called out to the Prime Minister in his reply, we could come up with very specific cases and, of course, we could talk about specific cases of corruption. Look, I'm just gonna remind you of two, three cases. In the National Assembly, the Economic Committee decided to review and reach a conclusion on the secret management contract concerning Elan. From that meeting to today, nothing has happened, even though the media are hearing that the Supervisory Council is still negotiating and negotiating how to write a new treaty. Is there a secret in this treaty, which, of course, I strongly believe cannot be a secret treaty, including corrupt elements? Are the corrupt elements of the problem of solving the housing problem of young and young families in Slovenia? In fact, many of these can't come to this under any circumstances, that is to say, to solve the housing problem and, on the other hand, political officials are buying in some strange way. It is also a question of whether there are corruption elements here too, so it is imperative to hold a debate on this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much, buddy Puksich. My colleague Tsukati wants to explain the voice behind him, Dr. Bajuk, and that's all on my list. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u202	Let me explain my voice very briefly, based on the fact that corruption is not only the result of individual greed, but is also the result of circumstances that make this possible. These circumstances, however, have arisen in our situation in the transition countries since the time when the ruling party has seen itself as the owner of the country, the owner of the country. Some of this is felt in the current ruling parties who experience their rule as ownership of the country. And the Prime Minister's response is what's worrying. The government's attitude to the problem of corruption, the government's approach to this issue - this is a problem. More than corruption itself! And for this reason, I would like to face this problem once, not the problem of corruption, but the problem of this country's attitude towards corruption: the attitude of this country to clientele, to protecting corruption and so on. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. My friend, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u205	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u206	I myself have proposed this debate and, of course, I will vote for it. I just want to point out what was the point of the question. The essence of the question to the Prime Minister was what the government had done in the past on the basis of these assessments, which we have heard from senior officials of the governing structure. Mr President's reply, the answers that were essentially two, but the saliva are worrying and also in some sense misleading and illogical. On the one hand, the government is supposed to be very concerned and to draw up a strategy. We know that in the previous composition, the government has already written a strategy and done nothing. This is also an expert assessment. On the other hand, the most worrying thing is that Mr President is back in the same thing as we hear from all the rulers in Slovenia: because it is not so bad, but in some other transition countries it is even worse. I would like to know that once and for all before the Slovenian public, this government should say whether this means that they have surrendered completely now and that it will be just as it is. But if Mr President writes strategies, then he tells us, Slovenians and Slovenes: because you can be happy, and elsewhere it's worse. Did we accept that? I would like to hear this from the Prime Minister, here, in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u207	I propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposal for a decision. I will read it again: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to Andrej Bajuk, a Member of Parliament, on the responsibility of the government in preventing and detecting economic crime." We're voting. Please vote, we are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a decision. 72 in attendance, 32 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] The proposal did not receive the necessary support. Ambassador Jožef Jerovšek proposed a decision that reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the parliamentary questions of Mr Jerovšek on the resolution of social problems in some regions." You want to explain your voice, colleague Jerovšek? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Although I know in a way how the ruling majority reacts to the most acute problems of this country and, in fact, there is no hope that we will be dealing seriously with these most pressing problems, let me repeat that my parliamentary question has arisen from the despair, humiliation and protests of the offended women in the Trobys, when the entire region, many regions, are losing their jobs daily, facing unbearable social distress, and the government is in fact supporting, as these bereaved women have said, the management greed - the looting of state assets, the destruction of businesses for personal interests and so on. I must say from this city that I express total solidarity with these desperate, humiliated, indignant women and Sunday workers after trade in Slovenia. It is high time, however, that serious answers are given on the table as to how the government plans to deal with deprived regions. Are they planning to direct billions for the prizes to the directors of Ean, the Maribor Vehicle Factory - a billion-dollar prize to go, say, to the factory of vehicles now in Maribor practically bankrupt or that they do not want these billions lost in the SIB bank, the Ljubljana holding company and so on- place once in this deprived region, to open up new jobs there. It is high time that you are ready for the government to be ready to face this problem and also to discuss it publicly here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I will give you my word as you have applied: Comrade Drobnic, Jelinčič, Kelemina and Pukšič. And I'll be very grateful to each and every one of you if I don't have to interrupt the performance when the bell rings for the end of the conversation. Comrade Petty Officer, it's your turn first, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I think the debate needs to be held. The government has developed a strategy for textile, footwear, clothing and leather industry in the previous composition or prior. So this strategy goes in the direction of adapting our industry to European standards. It will be necessary to verify what actually happened here that this strategy, which it has demonstrated so vehemently at the time, has not been implemented. This will also have to be compared with the data. The government serves us every month to see unemployment decline. Unemployment is declining, although they are becoming increasingly registered at the employment agency and are becoming less and less employed. I also asked the government and the minister how this was possible. And then we found that there are some hidden records, so-called written-offs, that artificially reduce unemployment. These are not guaranteed to re-enter employment. So, all these problems, all these confusions need to be cleared up and set a good plan. We are prepared to help the government, including the opposition, if it will listen. I'll back this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, now you have the words and no one else. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal from our colleague Jerovška with this, of course, that we think we should extend the issue to the Minister of Economy. For there is certainly a greater blame on the Minister of Economy, that in Slovenia economic growth is in no way at all, that day after day there are bankruptcys of companies, that the development of undeveloped areas is markedly less than the three or four pillars of the hangar in Brnik and so on. We are convinced that the social bomb in Slovenia is already ticking. And we are also convinced that the social bomb has been produced and mounted 10 years since the beginning of Mr Drnovska's rule. Now, under Mr. Robb, they may only have added a mechanism or they cannot stop a mechanism that is already ticking and is likely to explode in about half a year. Only convinced that Mr Rop can solve a lot of things in such a way as to remove some harmful ministers and replace them with others. We are sure, in the Slovenian National Party, that Slovenia has enough good staff to pull this wagon out of the ever deeper mud in which it sinks. I am sure that this could be done, but in order to make it possible to do so, the necessary debates are as open, as clear as possible, without concealing the facts, but with all the information and with the names hidden behind this data. Unfortunately, we have no immunity from Members and therefore we would probably get another lawsuit in court, but I think it makes sense and it is also worth it in terms of what we owe to Slovenia and the Slovenian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The proposed initiative of my colleague is certainly worth supporting. In fact, the Minister's response is certainly insufficient. In fact, I'm from the Sevnica Congregation alone, where recently there have been serious, so to speak, social dramas, precisely because of the great dismissal of workers in the labour-intensive sectors. I mean, these workers do not require some social assistance, but they demand a fair, just job where they can earn a normal life with their hands. However, this is a serious drama, since both employees are unemployed, social assistance at the institution, we know how long it can take or those rights arising from employment, we know how long they last, then of course social assistance and so on. There are also many singles, including three children and so on. In short, the difficulties of the people in Posavia are extremely great and it would be right to have, on the basis of the request of my fellow Member, a somewhat broader discussion on whether the funds invested, the huge amounts invested in the state budget, have produced those effects that would be expected and should give results in order to achieve new jobs to create new jobs, which, of course, in this case, we can say that it did not happen. In short, I think the debate is justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support this proposal for a public debate on the question raised yesterday by my colleague, Jožef Jerovšek, when he asked the question when the government will take a serious approach to solving the growing unemployment and face the decline and unsuspecting number of areas in Slovenia. Look, the Minister himself, Dr Dimovski, has already answered this question to his colleague Jerovšk, that the question for which he is responsible and responsible is very broad and that his questions which he raised require very precise answers. These are, of course, very precise responses by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. In such a way that what has been proposed to expand is expected to involve the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy in this debate. However, the fact is that unemployment, colleagues and colleagues, although statistically speaking, are being reduced - is being reduced due to or, for the first time, to a variety of ways of obtaining data. Indeed, we do not have a large number of citizens and citizens involved in unemployment statistics because they do not meet those conditions so that they can be registered at the employment agency. Secondly, if it is decreasing, unemployment in some areas is declining, but in some areas it is still increasing. Unfortunately, such areas in Slovenia are becoming more and more, where unemployment is increasing. Such a public debate would also, of course, contribute to allowing the Minister for Regional Development to come up with a better proposal to amend the law on regional development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u218	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I also assess that it makes sense to support Mr Jerovsk in the proposal he made today. In fact, Slovenia is ahead of entry into the European Union. There is a slightly different order in the European Union than we currently do. The European Union wants to reduce the differences between one and the other regions, and I also note that Slovenia has not done much in recent years to reduce the differences between its central centre and some other regions in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that we have a Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, and some statistics point to the social crisis, unemployment, and exactly what statistics from the year to year show where these data are most burdensome and where they hit most on social welfare. It is mainly north-eastern Slovenia: Styria, Prekmurje and Koroška. Don't ignore that information! I see nothing wrong if someone in this country wants us to accept a change of constitution, to get the legal basis, as some say, for the adoption of the law on regions, landscapes. Let us also hold a debate on such a question! Recently, I met a friend who is the chairman of one section of Maribor Hospital - what they found. Internists, doctors in the Republic of Slovenia have found that those living in Maribor and Northeastern Slovenia die five years earlier than those living in the central part of the Republic, the central province, if I may say so. Did anyone wonder why there was such a difference in hundreds of miles? Surely unemployment, social and economic, have an impact on this. That is why I myself will support this proposal from Mr Jerovsk and it is right to discuss this in the national assembly. This word can bring good to all of us, who are a little bit further away from the center, which is already quite developed towards some other centers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to come by myself and explain my voice. I will support this, especially because I think that with us, and especially in this national assembly, we are part of one and the same disease, that we think that if we continue to sweep things under the rug, then the problems will be solved. I do not know if we will be able to find solutions in the debate, but the facts that my colleague Jerovsk points to and the implementation of my colleagues who supported this proposal will not go away if we remain silent about this. It's sad, just an hour and a half ago, we had a deep and extensive debate about silenced graves. Let's not do the same with the silent problems. They won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u221	I believe that the National Assembly - no, also Comrade Kebrich, please explain the vote for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. I will support this proposal myself. The reason is simple. The more employees, the easier it will be for all together to raise the level of the economy and the ratio between the active, employees and the number of pensioners. The fact is that public debate can also contribute to a certain extent to new proposals and ideas on how to address this problem of unemployment, which is not only a problem for us, but also in the European Union. Once again, I agree with this debate that we will find complementary ideas, proposals for the same amount of money that is intended to create new jobs more rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u223	We are voting on a proposal whose content I will read again: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to the question of the question of the Social Problem in some regions." We're voting. 72 in attendance, 39 in and 30 in. (For the vote was 39.)(against 30.) I take it this decision has been adopted. We will therefore hold a debate on this issue at the next meeting. My colleague, Franz Pukšič, proposed a decision which I would ask for attention - "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to the question by Franz Puksic on the level of salaries and other ratings of directors of public institutions and businesses." We're voting, I'm sorry, I'm calling it off. My colleague, Puksic, wishes to explain his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This question arose because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the decision of Kviaz, which was voted 11 votes in favour last June, did not give an answer to this question until 30 September last year. Moreover, she did not reply later when she had to be called back by President Kviaz, the National Assembly and the reply that came was not sufficient. Or even more! Discussion needed on this issue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u225	Comrade Pukšič, can you please stop for a moment because you're disturbing the others. Can I ask the National Assembly to allow my colleague Puksic to finish the discussion? Please, colleague Pukšič, you have no say, either, Comrade Jerovšek. My friend Pukšič, please. Peace in the hall, it's hard to follow the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I hope Tone waits for me to finish this. The fact is that there is an urgent need to have a debate around this point, as there are data, names and surnames in the public media on the salaries of officials, and more importantly, also yesterday, the Secretary-General, Mr Bandelj, in fact, expressed in his reply the wish that this debate be made in Parliament. In fact, he himself said, quote: "In short, the government has been trying to resolve this issue since 1997." So, he tries, and of course he can't resolve it; he said even more: "Then it appears to mention the Government's conclusion, because, like you, we have found that some, despite the criteria that are relatively clear, and despite the recommendations that members of the supervisory boards should apply, in these public companies, but in some cases there is a wage that is higher than the criteria so defined. In short, it is imperative that the Members of the National Assembly discuss this and give the Government an additional mandate to regulate matters in accordance with the laws, positions and regulations adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u227	Comrade Jerovšek, there's Comrade Kangler behind you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal to hold a debate on these criteria, on a large crowd of those 22s, for example, a thousand who are on pay, according to their privileges, essentially before the Members of this national assembly, who are forever on the wallpaper. Indeed, it is high time the government made public how it actually sponsored its staff. To explain why her staff receives 100 million prizes when they are members of the Supervisory Boards in public, state-owned companies. To tell which government officials she'll give half the apartment in the next phase. For example, she will give 20 million as she has given to Mr Golobic. This should be announced in advance to his constituents because the government is giving away state property. Let the government tell you what the criteria are, why these gentlemen are so entitled to these benefits. And it is high time that this - that the awards, for example, for the management of a company, a million two hundred thousand Marks, share such rewards with the various directors, and we are facing this social crisis, the unbearable situation that in the same regions where government directors share thousands of million or hundred million prizes, businesses fail and do not invest in new jobs. I hope that the government is able and ready to face this situation, to stop this problem of unreasonable behaviour and to come before Members with some data.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u229	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. My friend Kangler. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. I will also support this proposal from my colleague Pukšič, but with a different view than my previous interlocutor. In fact, we have been Members from day to day, and in the past we have been the target of attacks by the media of the Slovenian public, as far as our personal income is concerned, gross wages. Some officers, Slovenian officers, and above all, Mladina has recently published a list of the gross salaries of some government-owned officials and companies. We have been able to see very strongly that a number of officials who have been elected by the government or elected by the National Assembly have more gross personal benefits than Members. And there are many in this country who are hiding behind the receipts of the National Assembly or members of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament. I think it is right for the Slovenian public to find out who is who in this country deserves and in what amount government officials, officials and certain directors of public institutions and enterprises that are state-owned. And certainly, someone in the media wrote down a while ago why the media is burdened with the salaries of Members who are only 90, with many officials in the government or other institutions having a higher gross personal income than Members. My opinion is personal, and for this reason I will support this proposal from my colleague Pukšič, so that we can also talk about it. Indeed, before us in the future we will also adopt a decree on the level of salaries of officials and that we will also be able to decide, on the basis of the debate, what the ratios and classes of those officials who far exceed some of the average wages will be. I will therefore also support this proposal for the debate to take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u231	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you for your word. I will also support this proposal from my colleague Puksic because I was not satisfied with yesterday's reply to almost the same content of the Member's question, Minister Mumorr. Indeed, the fact is that the government is responsible for the salaries of government officials, public sector officials and directors in public institutions and businesses. And it is also responsible for one proportion that must be on this relationship. Today it is that a number of directors or government officials have once more a salary higher than that of a member of the National Assembly. We have seen this from data, which has also been published by the Slovenian media. And if the government wants to save, if the state wants to save, then the government needs to make order on this segment first. It is essential that this debate takes place in the National Assembly. Why? From the answers of the competent ministers or government officials, the government is still playing machete relations here. Yesterday, Minister Dr. Marble said that the government had made recommendations to its members of the supervisory councils. The government can also give its members more than recommendations if they do not implement the government's strategic policies. I therefore believe that the government on this segment has landed in one vicious circle, and the National Assembly must help it get out. That is why I think that this debate must also be held in the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I myself will support this proposal to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this proposal. Why? There's more than one reason. The first is that I believe that this is the continuation of what I was able to do at the time, that we have had a pay debate. I think that this is a continuation and that this issue of wages must be definitively resolved. But to resolve here in the National Assembly, because we are the legislator and others must thus respect those laws and those decisions that we adopt. The essence of the problem is that where a country is either a majority owner or a co-owner, it has a certain impact on the policy of the wages of the management, not only the management, but also through collective bargaining unions, because the Economic and Social Council is also supposed to have a role to play in this. Pay policy in this country is very, very important for all generations, so I will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u235	Comrade Petty Officer, you still wanted an explanation of the voice, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u236	I will also support this, and I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to familiarise us with the relevant material regarding employees, not something that will be obtained in an illegal way or even incorrect, and it would also be good for the government to provide other earnings for these officials in the supervisory councils, in lectures I would now ask Mr Anderlich if he calms down a little and on behalf of the President of the National Assembly, because I cannot speak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u237	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u238	to inform us that the debate will be of good quality, that we will also draw something from it. [[...]] Look, the press is asking if we're for freezing wages or not. If such imbalances and such differences are not in accordance with the legislation, freezing is inappropriate. First, it is necessary to regulate in accordance with the law, and we have a law on civil servants, first of all to do so, and then, of course, such a measure comes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u239	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u240	Of course, I will support this in order to make this area as transparent as ours, as ours, as ours, and ours, and something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u241	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you. Surely the opening of such a debate on such a matter as my fellow Member has proposed is justified. Previously we discussed the issue of unemployment, other negative elements in this country, we are now discussing huge wages. This imbalance, this inequality, this non-social situation has grown across all borders in Slovenia and it is really necessary to tell the Slovenian public where the borders to which we can go are. I think the Members have felt the responsibility to talk about this and I think that we should not hinder this, that we must support it. I am firmly convinced that this proposal will receive support. That previous proposal on corruption should also be supported because this is all related because these differences only increase the differences between the rich and the poor with all these issues that have opened up today. We have to sort these things out somehow. On the basis of the commitment in the Constitution that Slovenia is a social and legal country, the National Assembly is obliged to discuss these issues. I am firmly convinced that the proposal will receive support and I will support it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The National Assembly will now decide on a proposal for a decision. I'll read the contents again. May I have your attention, please? Proposal for a Decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at its next regular meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to the question by Franz Puksic on the level of salaries and other ratings of directors of public institutions and businesses. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 38 in and 27 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] This proposal has also received the necessary support. We have thus concluded by voting on the point of the question and on the initiative of Members and Members. We are moving on to item 2 of the agenda and thus to the first reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act at first reading is appropriate for further consideration. Voice explanation, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, our rules of procedure do not allow, or this particular problem that we have already discussed, the business commission has not yet resolved that it is also possible to adopt an additional decision, while we are considering how the law goes through the first reading, that we are always just faced with someone yes or no. We are prepared, as we have already said, to support this law and expect some changes from the government, but also on the basis of certain studies or opinions that key institutions of our country must give us before we decide on these matters. Of course, Mr President, it doesn't matter what I say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u245	No, no, I'm asking for peace in the hall. It doesn't matter. You're the only one with a word right now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u246	Yeah, time's running out. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u247	And the rest of you in the hall that you are interrupting, I ask for peace. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u248	Since 1997, you've been making a fool out of this country when you adopted this first law because you know it's nothing. And like today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u249	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u250	And you're not ready to even listen to no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u251	I don't think there's any reason to raise your voice. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for immediate peace in the hall. There is no reason for a raised voice and not for any controversy that does not fall under this debate. I'm asking for peace. Article 45 of the Rules of Procedure allows the working body, which Dr. Bajuk has mentioned as an option, to provide the Government and other public authorities, public bodies, public undertakings, public funds, the founder of which is the State, with the clarification and information it needs to carry out its tasks. However, the National Assembly cannot take such a decision. Can we decide on a proposal for a decision that a proposal for a law that is appropriate for a second reading at first reading? [[Yeah.]] I'm putting him to the vote. Decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act is appropriate for further consideration. Order! 68 present. 51 for and 17 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body. Before we proceed, I would like to say that for everyone who occurs, it is disturbing if there is no peace in the hall. For this reason, I ask all of us to be correct with our colleagues and with our colleagues. We continue with the 5th paragraph of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Chemicals. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Article 8 first. If this is accepted, the next amendment will become irrelevant. This is an amendment by the SDS Group to Article 8. The amendment of LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DesUS is also tabled in this article. The SNS Members' Group also. Procedural? Please, Comrade Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u252	I just want a warning. These amendments relate to the Law on Cosmetic Products, not to the Law on Chemicals.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u253	Thank you so much for the heads-up. It's justified. It's a cosmetics law. All the other things I mentioned were true. Someone would like a word explaining the vote to Article 8. We have an amendment to the SDS, then four groups of Members and the SNS. We'll make the first decision first. If this is voted, the other two are no longer subject. We therefore vote on the proposal of the SDS Group on Article 8. 70 present. 20 for and 49 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't voted out. We are voting on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS to Article 8. If this is accepted, it becomes the next meaningless. We're voting. 72 present. 52 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I note that he has received the necessary support and thus the amendment of the SNS Group has become irrelevant. The four members of the Group shall submit an amendment to Article 21. I think we can decide about him. Please! We are voting on the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 21. 70 present, 51 for and 2 for. [[51 members voted in favour.]] [[Two against.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We have thus concluded our vote on the amendments and concluded our second reading of the bill. I now give the floor to the bill-maker. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members. Since the amendments to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, I propose that the third consideration of the law be carried out at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mrs. Piskurova, head of the office. We're moving on to a decision on your proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We therefore vote on the proposal to hold a third hearing at this meeting on the basis of Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Please, we're voting. Present 68, 52 for and 11 for. [[52 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that we have adopted this procedural decision with the necessary majority. The third hearing will take place on Thursday 19.6.2003 after the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking up this agenda. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the second reading of the bill on military graves. We are moving on to a decision on the only amendment tabled, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party to Article 7. The debate was long and comprehensive. Can we now vote on this proposal? Please, we're voting. Excuse me, you have the floor, mag. Spending. I'm calling it off. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u256	Thank you very much. I would like to explain my vote on the proposed amendment. I will vote against this amendment. But there are two reasons. The first one is of a formal nature, and the second one is of a substantive nature. Let me first explain where I see the formal problem. Article 7 introduces a new subtitle of Definitions with the proponents. If I review the proposed amendments, all of these concepts are covered in the first five articles, but also in the form of a third paragraph, i.e., paragraph 4 and which would be found, which does not correspond at all in terms of form. Thus, it would be possible to use a word for this amendment, which was used as a weaker qualification for the law as a whole. I'd be lying if I said I accepted this amendment in substance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u257	Peace in the hall! Just a moment, colleague of the Potrat. I ask for peace in the hall so that the voice will not be raised again without need. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u258	For I believe that this amendment introduces ideology and an attempt to revalue history. If the intention of the proposed amendments was indeed to adopt the law, then this amendment certainly deceived all those we thought to be sincere. For I believe that in today's debate several times has been able to hear the promise that the law will be rectified in the future. I will vote against this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u259	Thank you very much. I saw two more, please, Comrade Kremjar, then Comrade Juban. Did I see it right?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u260	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment for a simple reason, because the law itself without this amendment is in fact what the vast majority of people in this House advocate and what I think this country needs. This is not the law of historical truth, but it is the law, as it is written, of war graves. Without this amendment, the law covers, so to speak, all that has been said in this Parliament for almost five years and beyond. He's talking about five to the dead, talking about the right of the dead to rest in peace, to have his grave. And that's what this law rules. Some people won't, and they don't like it that way, but one piece of something closes. For it is necessary to leave the door open so that we can still work on the dead in politics. Because a law without this amendment does not make a policy, but it solves something that has actually had to be resolved before, and it saves now - better now than never - I will support the basic law and not this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u261	Please, Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u262	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u263	Comrade Jerovšek, I don't want to bother you again, but you're always close to the speakers, which usually bothers you if anyone does. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have already come forward in this sense in the sense that I will say that I will not support this amendment for a reason, because the content, especially the last three paragraphs, is foreign to me. Maybe the reason I came from an environment where these stories were less present. And that even those who come to us Members, but I have come to this house for 10 years, there have almost never been any initiatives in this direction to adopt such solutions through legislation in the National Assembly. There are a variety of comments that, the solutions that we have brought to this national assembly, overcompensation is also more present in our environment, that this country is paying various human smugglers, counterfeiters, and the money that has been declared political persecutors, and today we are paying damages and are afraid that something like this will not happen here in an attempt to change history. Indemnities, lustrations and the like. What we hear too often and what is to be understood in various debates. Divides because of what was 50 years ago, I'm among the elderly here, I don't remember well, division for these reasons I don't know. I know them for many or some other reasons, and that is why I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-17-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u265	Thank you very much. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 72 present. 20 for and 50 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That's how we decided on our only amendment. You want a word with the proposer? As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will carry out the third examination of the draft law on Thursday, 19 June 2003, following the end of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. That's what I'm breaking up with. With this, we have exhausted decisions on all the issues that have been on the agenda today and are ready to make decisions. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the National Assembly will continue its meeting. Thank you all for your cooperation today. I'm having a good night. At 10 a.m. tomorrow, the National Assembly continues its work. Until then, good-bye!
