ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the leadership of the National Assembly, we agreed to postpone the session for one hour. I therefore inform all the Members of Parliament, all Members and Members of Parliament that the session will begin at 11 a.m. Please accept this with understanding and meet me in the hall in an hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u2	I'm about to proceed with the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Some of the colleagues are detained. Later this afternoon, after 17.45 p.m. there will be no colleague Beumann, after 2.00 p.m. of colleague Jerič, after 13.00 p.m. of colleague Terčon, between 10 a.m. and 12.00 p.m. there will be no colleague of Trofenika, otherwise Dr. Bernik, Čeligoj, Sušnik, Jakič, Dr. Merlo, Peterle and Podobnik will be absent all day. We are at the 18th-point of the agenda - the defence of the proposal to schedule an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union. The proposal for an advisory referendum was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Mr Anderlic, and I ask the applicant for an introduction. Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u3	The Group of Members, represented by the Liberal Democracy Group, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS, the Slovenian National Party, the Youth Slovenia Party, the representative of the Hungarian National Community and the representative of the Italian National Community and the independent Member, Mr Čebul, decided to give the initiative to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's accession to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, then to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union. After careful reflection and many discussions, and on a proposal from the government and the government's position on this initiative, Slovenia undoubtedly needs a communication from citizens and citizens on Slovenia's accession to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, i.e. NATO, by 26. March, only consultation referendums could be proposed. The first initiative, which we are now talking about, is backed by opinions 69 members of the National Assembly, a majority of which ensures a firm determination that those Members we have proposed will also be considered binding on the outcome of the referendum. So, whatever will be expressed in the referendum, we will also act in our further activities when we talk about what measures will have to be taken until the final ratification of the international treaty on Slovenia's accession to that connection. We therefore expect that the State Assembly, as well as the Foreign Policy Committee, will adopt a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum and that, for the day of the call, I stress, for the date of the referendum, it will be set on 7 February, which means that all deadlines will begin to run from then on, and at that time, the National Assembly may also do what can be done in favour of the implementation of this referendum in particular, as well as of that in the next item of the agenda. These are the arguments by which we propose that the National Assembly call for a consultation referendum, and I thank you for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich, for you and the proponents. I now invite the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee to the floor. Comrade Kacin, would you like a word? Please. Yes, please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since this is a very important point and a very important decision, I propose that, in accordance with Rule 223 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly adopts the decision that the President of the Republic of Slovenia will submit an opinion by Friday, which is, by 10 a.m., an opinion on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's entry into the EU and on the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. Until then, we propose the suspension of the meeting of the National Assembly. At the same time, we propose, in accordance with Rule 224 of the Rules of Procedure, that the President of the Republic explain his opinion directly at the meeting and his position on the proposed proposals for the call for consultative referendums. Please put this decision to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u6	This is a decision in accordance with Rule 223 of the Rules of Procedure. I have consulted on how to hold a debate on this decision. Each Group of Members will be allowed to communicate its position within three minutes, then I will put this proposal to the vote. Does any of the members of the Group wish to communicate their position? Let's go in one order. Please, my friend Peca, [[five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u7	In the Slovenian National Party, we find Mr Visiak's proposal meaningful. In addition, we estimate that it would make sense even to extend the presence of the Prime Minister at the meeting tomorrow. In the final stage, at these moments, we define ourselves in the National Assembly to some kind of future and to a way to get into some integration, yes or no. It is appropriate that as many stakeholders as possible, or those who have any influence on the course itself or potential abuse, we cooperate, cooperate, and thus help to ensure, in particular, the credibility of the consultation referendum. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u8	Okay. I saw Dr. Bayuk's hand, then my friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The decision before the National Assembly is so important that we support with all determination the procedural proposal that has been expressed because we believe that it is imperative that the President of the State, in accordance with his powers under the Constitution, and also, as provided for in our Rules of Procedure, give his opinion to the National Assembly before we begin the debate on such a historic step that we will certainly take. So, New Slovenia supports the procedural proposal and we expect the President of the country to actually attend the meeting of the National Assembly and to participate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u10	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u11	I cannot accept such a proposal myself, and the Group of Members cannot support it either, because this is actually a completely, I would say, irrational approach, because I think it attempts to introduce some elements of emergency situations and create some impression, as if they did not know that this national assembly or the previous one has already confirmed the readiness of Slovenia, the National Assembly, to call a referendum when it enters the European Union and, in particular, when it accedes to the Treaty of Accession to NATO. And from this point of view, there has been a broad debate over all these years and indisputable assurances by the government or the expectation that the State Assembly will have a referendum on the table by 26 March. And this will also be a trip to the government for an undisputed, unequivocal message concerning NATO that Slovenia is ready to enter into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. With these arguments, of course, we cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we oppose the procedural proposal tabled by colleague Vizjak. Indeed, we firmly believe that the responsibility for receiving these referendums is here, in the National Assembly. We've been talking about these things for over a month, and we always have other solutions. We are also convinced that we need to reach a consensus. And if we continue to do so, we will not come to this consensus in this way, because there are always some new manoeuvres. We do not object to the coming of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, and I am all ministers to participate in this decision, but we do not see any reason to postpone it until tomorrow. So the position of the Group is that we are against this procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u14	Please, Comrade Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u15	Our Group of Members is also firmly opposed to this proposal. We believe that it is a further attempt to postpone the matter to a later date, to seek again the words that have been spoken in this national assembly and have been spoken many times by the President of the State, the Prime Minister, the ministers, the competent, responsible and many others. We're not going to achieve anything with this. We think someone wants to break the piano to find out where Beethoven's symphony comes from, instead of asking the pianist how to get to that symphony. We've heard it all, we've read it all, not once, ten times, but more. Then what do you have to do when the president comes to the National Assembly again and talks. What's the next option? Tell us all the options. Tell the Slovenians, we are against the referendum, against the Slovenians at the referendum saying “We are for NATO”, “we are for the European Union.” That's what we'd like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u16	I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, colleague Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u17	We do not intend to support this proposal in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. We think it's just one stretch and a delay that's been going on for a good month. The opinion of the President of the country is, of course, welcome, but we believe that he has made it clear several times. Among other things, about one year ago, almost when we had decided on the exact same issue, here in the National Assembly. At the time, of course, he was in a different function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u18	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On the basis of the two proposals tabled, the National Assembly will decide today only on the call for a referendum. The request for a referendum, at which citizens and citizens would decide to join the EU and NATO, is the decision of this national assembly. At the same time, the promise of all political parties, as well as the majority of political parties, as well as the majority opinion of citizens and citizens. In our party and our Group of Members, we are convinced that it is right to call for a referendum and that we do not need the opinion of the President of the country to sign it. But that's a welcome opinion. Mr President has the right, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to communicate it, and we will be grateful if he communicates it, but we can decide without that opinion. Plus that. However, when it comes to substantive issues, ladies and gentlemen, it would be appropriate to make clear, at last, what are the substantive issues that we still want to discuss, which are not yet conceived and that it would not be useful to make decisions about them, please say. We are prepared to discuss substantive issues. However, not by going to hideaways, to each other, but especially to the public, and looking for different excuses so that no definition is necessary. The definition is just that the last time we have to decide is going to be, and we think that the process is going to have to continue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u20	Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't know if we're talking here and not listening. I think that more than clearly, the Social Democratic Party, like the coalition partner of Nova Slovenija, has expressed its position on these integrations and on the relationship, and I think it would be very, I don't know, without having to repeat it so many times. We also said what is the weakness of the consultative referendums, whose call we are deciding today, what are the dangers of these referendums and what are the opposition's wishes in doing so, I would say. This is said to be a binding referendum, that votes, undeclared votes shall not be considered automatic, or undeclared, invalid votes shall not be taken against, as we know that this may also be the case for this referendum decision. These are our suggestions and do not say that you do not know them and that they are not clear. We therefore want the President of the country to be identified in these circumstances and until the consultative nature of this referendum. That's a fact, and I don't know why you're acting like you don't want to understand it and you're reading us some kind of delay and I don't know what it is. I think it's sad that we have to repeat things like, I don't know, in the early years of elementary school. I'm sorry, gentlemen, I have to say this here because it's been written down more than obvious and said several times. And now you're reading us some stalling. We just want to say that we are ahead of serious decision-making, that it is right for the President of the country to give his opinion on these decisions. I think that if this happens within one day, as we suggest, it will not be anything fatal to the call for this referendum in one form or another. And I do not accept and cannot accept the readings that you read to the Slovenian Coalition and especially to the Social Democratic Party on the content itself. I think it is also clear that you have yourself become involved in this referendum issue and now, of course, you are looking here that we are some opponents of the referendum. We are not opposed to the referendum, but we are opposed to such a form of referendum, which will be a kind of survey that will have no binding features and also has many shortcomings under the law. That is why we have proposed that the President should give an opinion on this, because I think you are playing too hard with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u22	That is how I believe all the groups of Members have communicated their views. If any of the Members would like to explain their vote yet, I will give this opportunity. This is a decision under a specific Rule of Procedure and I think it would be possible because it is not a normal procedural decision and I think it would be right. I will therefore give an opportunity to explain my vote before the vote. Let's go in a row, comrade Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! I cannot support this procedural proposal. I am very surprised that this procedural proposal has even taken place. Such a procedural proposal would support any other substantive debate, but when we discuss the consultation referendum on Slovenia's entry into NATO and Slovenia's entry into the European Union, I am convinced that the President of the country was the Prime Minister and that he also spent much of his time talking to the opposition, which was a lot more active and much louder once or a few months ago, that Slovenia enters the European Union, that Slovenia enters NATO, is more or less known to be the President's position. And I am sure that, at least according to my feelings and some knowledge, there is also a clear and well-known position of the President of the State, Mr Janez Janša and Mr Andre Bajuk. That is why I will not support this proposal. In any other substantive debate, I would like to hear the opinion of the President of the country, and I hope that the opposition will sometimes propose, on another substantive issue, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the President of the country give his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u24	Comrade Kremjar, colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Nor will I support this proposal for two very simple reasons. The first reason is that it is the responsibility of this Parliament, which must accept, which should be adopted on the basis of a proposal before us, or not, if there is a different will, a decision on the introduction, a referendum and nothing else. And today, of course, there is no need to work from this more crucial issue. Today it is not a question of any kind, but it is a simple question. Let us ask people what they think about it, and it is Parliament's decision to do nothing but what they have to do, and I support this very, very, very much - to ask people whether they agree to us joining these two associations. Parliament must do so and does not need any president - by the way, since it has already been said, President Drnovšek here made it very clear what he thinks about it and ask him once again, unless you think that, at the time, as Prime Minister, he thought otherwise now as president of the country. I haven't spoken to President Drnovski, but I'm sure he thinks the same way he said about this booth. I'll give my opinion to the end. This Parliament must take this decision, whether the President of the State thinks so or not. At this point, his word for a decision in this House is not decisive, and that is why we do not need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Comrade Kebrich, behind you, Dr. Bernick. Sorry, buddy Barovich first. I'm sorry, my friend Barovich, I mistakenly crossed your name too quickly. Please, Comrade Barovich, follow you, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. As we have said in the position of the Slovenian National Party, we will support this proposal. The explanation for my voice is clear. Dr Drnovšek has held many important discussions with the leaders regarding NATO as Prime Minister, including as President of the State, about the content and events he knows. It is precisely because, as my distinguished colleague told me before me, that Parliament is the one who is deciding today on a referendum on a very important issue, it is not really any more than Dr Dr Drnovšek would have informed us about all his visions and behaviours, but no matter what we are talking about today, we are only talking about a referendum. The question of the consultation referendum is also very questionable to me personally. The consultation referendum shall not be binding. It would be very good to talk about that, too. For once again, the inclusion or accession to some integration, if such a decision is made in Slovenia, is not such an insignificant step. Let me remind you of the decision of all Slovenes and Slovenes, over 90 per cent in 1990, on December 23, when they decided on the independence and sovereignty of this country. This is very important information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! It is easy for me to decide that I cannot support this proposal. The question is why. The answer is clear. Firstly, the President of the State and the Prime Minister have said so many times that we have tried or that the highest authorities, either governments or states, have tried to get an invitation and we have all been sad in our own way that we have not already received it in Madrid. Now that we have it, we want to know whether citizens still feel the same way as the majority of the parties in the previous parliamentary term and it is now. And the other thing is, I'm gonna say bob beans. The sparrows are chirping what you want. You want to stall. If you wanted the President of the State and the Prime Minister to clarify why you didn't propose at the time when we started the procedure, when there was enough time to find a deadline for one and the other to come here and tell us the same thing. Maybe with some additional arguments. But sparrows chirp, what was written down and said that you want to bet that if it were a negative result, that the government should fall and want new elections. That's in your background and let's say bob beans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u30	Please, the debate will continue to be controversial today, and this is nothing wrong with the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace. All I am asking is that, as far as possible, we avoid accusations that do not contribute to the argument. Dr. Bernick now has a word and a colleague of Pec's. Anyone else then?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have the impression that the success story is drowning. I support the proposal that the President of the State come before this Parliament, for one simple reason, that the stunners and those sitting on the fence against NATO will convince you that we want to come to NATO in such a way that they will be bound and that they will unite us all in this and we will vote together. It doesn't look like most people want it, but I think the president of the country with moral authority should do something about it. Look, like I said, the boat is sinking and you know what that means. In the background of all this, however, there was suddenly a terrible anti-Americanism that suddenly broke out, and perhaps an older gentleman among you could tell what America had done in World War I, World War II, to help destroy communism. It may hurt you, but if we were honest, Europe wouldn't be saved if it weren't for the Americans, whatever they are. So I ask you to unite, please ask the President of the country to come here and tell us what he really thinks and convinces you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. My colleague Peca, his colleague Rupar, and then we'll vote if I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u33	I have never hidden my opposition to Slovenia's involvement in the EU and NATO. But I've always been in favour of a referendum so that people can say their own things that are so strong and important, because I'm sure that politics is playing the wrong game. That the costs associated with the past developments around NATO and the EU are too high and that so far people have not been asked. I also believe that our country, in particular government parties, has missed the most favourable deadline for both referendums. I think it would have made sense to do this years ago when we started adapting Slovenian legislation to one or the other institution or organisation, however much you prefer. However, as regards the procedural proposal made by the honourable colleague, yes, I will support him, as well as the colleagues in the Slovenian National Party. But for another reason, because I am sure and because I know that activities related to EU integration and NATO do not take place solely and exclusively in this House, the National Assembly - there are still at least activities related to integration in this National Assembly. All essential activities take place in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a number of acts and has pledged itself to countless euro - and to the natopics, as we wish in Slovenia. And that is why I think it makes sense that if we offer people a referendum, that the government commits itself, that it respects this will, not that, in the event of different results, the government wants it to miss such a referendum in the event of a negative result for NATO or the EU. And if it is the decision of the parent working body to adopt also an act which will be binding on this house, of course we cannot ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for our constitutional arrangements and for the sharing of power. But we can hear the commitment tomorrow, from the government representatives and from the president of the country. So of all those actors in this game that still have a way of influencing the course of these events. And that's my motto, why I'm going to support the proposal. Because I would like to hear from those who actually influence and are not puppets, like most in this national assembly, that they will respect their will. That's the only purpose. Don't bluff about us offering people something. Even if we respect the referendum will, expensive activities will continue in the event of a negative outcome. The government will continue to look for all ways to enter both integrations. And that must be prevented. If we're going to a referendum, we get an answer that we're going to stick to all the actors in this country. A clear word from the government can only be given to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you very much. And my friend, Rupar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Contrary to my colleague Pecett, I strongly support the entry into NATO, as I hope to say, 90% of the voters of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, of course, in contrast to those who say that you are or are in favour of joining both integrations, but that is not the case. Because I wouldn't understand why then, after Dražgoš, fallers with an equation between NATO and Nazism or symbols. Personally, I find the proposal extremely wise. It's blue. And if no one else, then at least the government coalition could support him. Why? I'll base it on you. Any opinion of the President of the country would already be here in this national assembly, and this, ladies and gentlemen, could be used for excellent promotion and advertising to join NATO and the European Union. With his proposal for direct transmission on national television, in one of the most viewed terms, this is the cheapest and best advertising for what you are saying that Slovenian voters and voters should do. And to not make a decision about it, I find it very incomprehensible and illogical. If not, the opinion is, in fact, whether it will support a consultation referendum or a binding referendum, in fact, for us, we will decide at the end of the day. But not to take advantage of this opportunity, for which the idea has fallen into the Social Democratic Republic or in the coalition of Slovenia, not to support it and not to accept it and not to take it as much as possible, and this is not clear to me in all your minds, united in this government. I will absolutely support this proposal myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u36	I no longer see my hands raised with a desire to discuss. I therefore conclude and move to a vote on the proposal for a decision submitted in accordance with Article 223 to deliver an opinion by the President of the Republic of Slovenia by Friday 31.1.2003 by 10 a.m. on the proposal for an advisory referendum on the entry into the EU of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty and to suspend the meeting until then. I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There's 77, 22 for and 54 for us. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 54.]] I note that this proposal has not been adopted. We are therefore at the point when we ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Jelko Kacin, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u37	Dear Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! On the basis of Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, as its parent working body, submit the following report to the proposal for a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union: At its 47th emergency meeting, held on 29 January 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a consultative referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Group of Members with the first signed by Anton Anderlic. The Chairman of the Committee informed the members of the Committee in the introduction that the Committee would first discuss and decide on the proposal for the invitation to tender for this referendum. To the extent that the proposal receives support, the Committee will also further discuss the draft decree and thus draft the text of the draft decree to be proposed to the national assembly for adoption. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which concluded in its opinion that the proposal was submitted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the proposal clearly raised the question to be the subject of the referendum and that the proposal was justified. The referendum question concerns a matter which is of wider importance for the Republic of Slovenia and which has not yet been decided by the National Assembly, which also fulfils the requirements of Articles 26 and 28 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. With regard to the referendum issue, whose clarity is not disputed, the Legal and Legislative Service has pointed out that the legitimate comments already made by the European Affairs Commission as an interested labour body are to be omitted from it by the term 'legislencies in relation to membership' and that the word 'accession' shall be used instead of the use of the word 'entry'. These comments should be made in editorial terms when finalising the question or naming this referendum within the framework of the call for a referendum act. Without discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the following decisions: the Committee on Foreign Policy supported the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: A consultative referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union shall be held. The Committee also proposes that the National Assembly adopt an appropriate act to comply with the referendum prior to the invitation to the referendum. The Committee then adopted a proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union and proposes to the national assembly to adopt it. The draft decree is an integral part of the Committee's report and I have been designated by the Committee as rapporteur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that, with regard to this dilemma, which relates to the proposals for a decision that you have submitted to the National Assembly, there is no need to make a statement. But I would like to point out that, among other things, you have also proposed that a corresponding act be adopted under the regulations. This means that the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt an appropriate act before the decision. I am simply reminding you of this problem, which we must clear up before we decide, Mr President. Okay. I will now give my word to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia, as we know, concluded at the European Union summit in Copenhagen on 12 and 13 December 2002 by negotiating membership in the European Union. The accession treaty is scheduled to be signed in Athens on 16 April 2003, this year. The Republic of Slovenia is expected to become a full member of the Union with effect from 1 May 2004, after the ratification procedures for the accession treaty have been completed in the Member States and Slovenia. We have made political commitments to citizens and citizens of our country to decide on Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union at the referendum. It is therefore necessary to prepare everything necessary in order to be able to hold a referendum on the entry into the European Union. At its meeting on 27 January 2002, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to propose a group of Members and supported the implementation of an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. In doing so, our government will fulfil the priority of Slovenian foreign policy, with which virtually all parliamentary parties agree. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It is now up to the members of the groups. They're all registered for presentation. First of all, colleague Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Does anyone else want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Then it's on behalf of DeSUS, Comrade Kebrich. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The proposal before us has been on the table for a long time and we have been able to contribute to the improvement of the text. It is important that in a period of time that is still available to us until the final decision - because it is clear to everyone that if we have decided to hold a referendum in one form or another, whether someone likes it better, it is essential that we settle the matter by 26 March. Why? If we have promised to ask the citizens for their opinion and if we have been credible in declaring that their will, whatever will be expressed in the referendum, will be binding at least for our Group of Members, and we have made this public statement, and our word will hold at least as much as the written word is in law or in the constitution. We are chosen from the people, and we must therefore respect the will of the people, and we have made this clear and clear. We don't have a fig in our pocket, so we talk to everyone when we look them in the eye, and we stand by our own words. The fact is that Slovenia outside the European Union would be very difficult to meet, perhaps what happened sometimes among the people, “and even if we eat grass”, but we do not want to eat grass and we want to be equal members in the European Community, to enjoy those benefits and share those problems that all European nations, all those countries that are involved or will still be included in the European Union will have. That is why in our group we are firmly determined that this is the only way that is not appropriate, or to say otherwise, smart alternatives, that all those who say - yes, because also Switzerland is not, but Slovenia, unfortunately, will not for a long time, Switzerland has a better chance of getting closer to the most developed, including with a highest or significantly higher standard, significantly above average if we are members of this European Union than to be alone. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u42	I just want to warn everyone who's going to be discussing this 18th item of the agenda. This is a proposal for a referendum on the entry into the European Union and we are discussing the referendum for the European Union and NATO separately. This debate will take 3 hours 48 minutes and the next 4 hours 20 minutes. So now we wouldn't mix them both up. You will be followed, Comrade Kebrich, by Comrade Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u43	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! So far, in various conclusions and also in acts of formal nature, this High Assembly has committed itself to leaving the most important decisions since 1991 to citizens and citizens of this country. In the various documents adopted in this Chamber, as well as in the old one before it was renewed, it is said that citizens and citizens of Slovenia will be able to decide whether to join the European Union and also in the European Union at the referendums. Decided! Repeat, repeat. Most of the Members here today voted in favour of the conclusions and positions, many times saying that citizens and citizens will decide on these matters, and you are offering them a consultation in this proposal of the act before us. What is proposed here is in formal contravention of the large number of decisions already taken in the various bodies and also in this national assembly. Look at the archives. True, there are always a few easier and harder ways from such a different point of view. The ruling coalition has decided to call for consultative referendums on the basis of arguments or better-spoken excuses, so that there are simply no other formal channels available in this time period in which it has come together. I would remind this high assembly that, by now, this national assembly has twice made such a formal path when they were gone. We changed the Constitution twice in a few days, we changed Article 68, and you changed the composition of the same government coalition as today's government in this country, a member who talks about electoral systems because you didn't want to respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, but you voted against it four times before and against the majority of people's decisions. In short, formal paths are available when you want them to be, and they're not when you don't want them to be, and that's just an excuse in this case. We understand the political motive of the ruling coalition to sign the referendums by a simple majority. Because in this case it is possible that something that has been taken so far, and this has actually been, as a national project, narrowed down to a project of the ruling coalition and, of course, on this basis also attributed all the credits, that is, say, a legitimate motive, although from a moral point of view it is not exactly to be welcomed. Some of the signs that the ruling coalition is preparing such a transition and narrowing this national project have already appeared in last year. There were many; for example, when the official Slovenian delegation went to Prague to top NATO, there were 27 people. All 27 cities were occupied by people from government structures, even though in some places they cover, say, the Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, the Defence Committee and so on, people from the opposition. There was no place for any of them in this delegation. This was a sign that these projects were being narrowed down. A substantive referendum on membership in the European Union is essentially a mockery of the existing constitutional regime, as well as of citizens and citizens. It is such an important decision that it will have a major impact on future weeks, months and years of life in this country once it becomes a member of the European Union. And the call for a mere consultative referendum on this issue is contrary to the weight of this decision. Citizens and nationals of this country have so far decided in mandatory legislative referendums on many things, on the construction of a thermal power plant, on artificial fertilisation, on railways, on the return of investments in telecommunications and so on. And it can happen, given the initiatives that are taking place, that on the same day you will call for a consultation referendum on the European Union, there will also be a mandatory referendum on the opening times of trade. It can happen that you will get this farce on the same day served, but based on some irony of history. The consultation referendum, not only does it not take account of such an important decision from a formal point of view, but it also does not take into account the experience we have so far in this country, which shows that even more binding decisions are not respected at the referendums. I mentioned before the vote on electoral systems. Here I would like to recall that a decision was taken when more than 75% of the citizens who voted in the referendum rejected the headless investment in the new thermal power plant and the government coalition proposed a similar law under a different name and adopted it, and this decision was also played. I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues that so far, in many Slovenian places that wanted to become municipalities, such a decision has been voted in consultation referendums with the vast majority, but you have then voted against the establishment of municipalities in those areas. There are many instances when this will was not respected. The outcome of the referendum following the error that is now in the procedure, the referendum law and the people's initiative, is also regarded as voices that cannot be understood by the people's will, and these votes are considered to be against. In recent referendums, there were almost 2% of these voices, some of them more. In the event of a narrow outcome, this error could decide the result. And in what you are now offering in this act, of course, you are not solving this issue. One declaration that is being offered and signed by those who are forcing a consultative referendum, and by which you would commit yourself to respect this decision, is already a farce in itself. First of all, because if that is the wish, then it is also the way to find a way for a mandatory referendum. Not only is this the way to do this, but these ways are found and proposed. To sign a declaration and confirm a commitment with the signatures of some who have so far broken several times that have voted in favour of a decision, even though their own Congress has committed them to a different one, who have said that there is no constitutional court and there is no God who can convince them that they will respect the will of the people. Of course, the declaration signed by such credible persons has no weight. And it's just a farce. I would also like to point out that only this event, when the government's unilateral coalition has narrowed some national projects to government coalition projects, has a negative impact on people's mood. They impact on potential participation in referendums and, of course, also on results. And what is happening now can only be for the benefit of those who do not want the positive results of these referendums. I would also like to point out that the invitation to a consultation referendum on membership in the European Union is treated differently by Slovenia than most other candidates for membership. In its entirety, the call for both consultation referendums for NATO and the European Union makes Slovenia completely different from the other seven or ten candidates. None of the other candidates will decide on Nate at the consultative referendums. The European Union will be decided by the majority of candidates for the European Union in mandatory referendums, in consultation with me, after what you propose. We do things in both cases completely different from those of others, which, of course, is formally possible, but this is something that raises many questions and concerns abroad as well. We also point out that we do not think it wise to make simultaneous decisions about the European Union and NATO, given that the public opinion here is shared, that the mood is different when it comes to one decision and another, and that the integration of these two decisions can harm a positive outcome, particularly when it comes to deciding on NATO membership. At the end of the presentation of our Group's position, which, of course, will not support the consultative referendums for the reasons explained, but advocates that citizens and citizens of this country, both European relations and NATO, actually decide what this National Assembly has already promised them on several occasions, would point out at the end that the call for only consultative referendums on both decisions is in line with what is expressed as one of the central concerns or the programme points of the coalition treaty of the current government coalition. This coalition contract clearly sets out a trend, which now seeks to eliminate the constitutional right in force when people have the opportunity to directly decide on important decisions at referendums. This trend, despite the fact that Article 90 of the Constitution is still in force, is trying to destroy it in two important points right now by calling for consultative referendums. I would also like to say something about whether it makes sense that we also hear the opinion of the President of the country on such important matters as deciding how to enter the European Union and NATO. We have a constitution that allows this, we have a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which directly states that the National Assembly not only has the right to ask the President of the State for an opinion, but it has the right to invite him to give an opinion and to set a time limit for him to give that opinion. This is under the new Rules of Procedure, which you have voted on, now the competence of the National Assembly. And I don't know if there is any other subject where it would be more useful to hear the opinion of the President of the country. Especially since we've been following him through the media in recent days, he's been talking about these topics at an international meeting where it's been heard, and he's been defiant again. And the national media or the media that we have, which we consider to be national, represented this visit by the President of the State in Davos as a series of meetings with extremely important people who are creating global policy. Would it not be wise to hear what was happening in these interviews if the President of the State there represented the interests of this country and spoke on behalf of the State? I think that would be worth it. We also paid the taxpayers. It is quite unreasonable for us to give up this information. That's what a proverb says about putting your head in the sand. Here you have voted with the vast majority of the votes of the ruling coalition that you do not want to hear these opinions, that you are not interested in what are the broader international circumstances, which also affect this decision and the timing of the decision-making process. I just don't see any rational reasons here that could lead to such an unreasonable decision. Is there any more important question than the European Union and NATO, where it would be right to hear the opinion of the President of the country? This option exists after the constitution and exists according to the rules of procedure. I think that would be very good, and you turned it down. I don't know why this stalling would be. In short, for the reasons stated above, it seems to us that the practice taken by the ruling coalition that, as the only candidate for membership in the European Union, we are deciding on this in a consultation rather than in a normal referendum and that, contrary to the practice when Slovenian citizens decide on everything at the referendum, they will not decide on this, but that the government coalition will only consult with them, which is why we will not support this decision. However, we call once again on trying to find a solution between this meeting and the course of this point, which has enabled people to make a real decision on this issue, and which would allow the European Union and NATO to become national projects, which is now due to the irrational moves of the government coalition, but when it comes to making a concrete decision after the public impression, they are no longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Saša Peca has the floor for the position of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u45	Your Honors are here! 23.12.1990, or we were citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this country asked ourselves whether Slovenia should become an independent and independent country. 95% of all answered yes. 95% of Slovenes and Slovenes wanted to have their sovereign and independent state. His country with full power at the legislative, executive and judicial levels. Your country with its own maritime and fiscal system and its own country with its own territory. Today, for a few more than 10 years, you all intend to change the decision of 95% of the people despite not knowing the will of the citizens and citizens. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that many mistakes have been made. First and foremost, the will of people to enter such a strong integration that will take away our territory, our money and everything else that is their own identity has not been asked before. Hold on to what the speaker said behind this counter in front of me — yes, we're in time trouble. We are aware of this in the Slovenian National Party. Even in a number of other hardships, this country is ours. Even in the grip of 300,000, living below the poverty line. But we cannot keep our eyes closed for this reason, and we cannot say that because we are in time trouble, we will no longer work in this area. Even earlier, if now the majority of the government and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are tired - and thank God that at least now - to ask people in the opinion, we will support this in the Slovenian National Party. We're about people deciding whether to come in or not. We are also in favour of agreeing today on what we will do with the answer. Too many responses to the referendum have been made in this country. Here is the constitution which instructs Members to vote in their conscience and is not bound by any instructions. Here are various moral, ethical and God-knows-all reservations that do not commit to a certain will Sorry that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to hold a consultative referendum. Perhaps the only good point is that the mother's working body suggested a conclusion. Perhaps this conclusion shows a light somewhere in the distance, or a positive light, that we will stick to our decisions. This is, as was said by the Slovenian National Party in the previous debate, on the basis of my assessment of a quality proposal, a procedural proposal, a decision such as to respect the will and conscience of later acts could be committed or committed by all actors who are currently engaged in these matters in this country. And even though it sounds like he's the only actor and the most important national council, that's not true. The most important actor in the light of the integration into the European Union is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Executive Authority. Their delegations, negotiating groups work with full powers, represent the position of Slovenia, as it is clear in Slovenia that 100% of Slovenians and Slovenes want to be in the EU. It's like every Slovene wants to lose their territory, their money, their sovereignty and their independence. That's something they can only afford a politician in a strange way in a cowboy country. But, unfortunately, we live like this right now. The costs we are causing, I will say, all the politicians, especially the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at these moments with EU accession and later with NATO, are enormous. Of course, the government avoided showing these costs when she said: we know direct and indirect costs. One cannot be defined because they are related to various other pursuits abroad and similar things. And precisely or also because of the reason for the cost, we are in favour of carrying out the referendum as soon as possible. Allow me, at the end of the presentation of the Group's positions, to touch even more specifically on the proposal of the parent working body, a declaration that speaks about how to respect the will. We all know what the practice has been so far. Some of this practice was directed by a speaker in front of me. But what is the point of deceiving citizens and citizens and telling them that the National Assembly will respect their will when the executive authorities do not respect this will and will continue to negotiate and at all costs incurred by these negotiations and relations. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we supported the proposal that today's debate on the form of a referendum, i.e. this nullity of the referendum, also spoken by the President of the State, would commit itself, as well as the Prime Minister, of course, to bringing ministers with him. But unfortunately that didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be too little if only a national assembly is committed to respect for the referendum will; even if it takes into account will, it is still too little. I am afraid, and I think it is justified that Slovenia, despite a possible negative referendum outcome, will continue with all the procedures, whether in its existing form, may only be a little bit more subdued, and will continue to try to drive Slovenia through the back door in this integration despite the will that may be expressed negatively. In the Slovenian National Party we are opposed to such adaptation to the European Union, we are opponents of the European Union. And we regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with all its activities around informing citizens and citizens about the good and bad aspects of the European Union, is so scrutinised in the area where the talk of our country's EU obligations is concerned. And when every matter, even though it is negative, shows, let it be through daily politics, through daily media, as something positive. Unfortunately, they're showing us Europe as something that we don't have to live without. I sincerely hope that, during this period, the period of the referendum, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will try, at least this time, to change the past ten years and several years, objectively report to the public and tell them what lies ahead in Europe. What awaits us is the opposite of what we decided on plebiscite. We're about to lose our independence and our sovereignty. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. At the same time, we would like to be assured by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President that he will respect, or they will respect, the will not to make politics all the more uninteresting, less desirable in our society. The credibility of all together, no individual or all individuals, we do not have much politics. Following the referendum, there may be no "k" remaining credibility in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be submitted by mag. Janez Kramberger. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u47	Colleagues and colleagues! I would very briefly like to give a position by the Slovenian People's Party's Group on this issue. I would like to say in this way that, at the initial stage of the consultations on the type, date and content of the referendums in the parliamentary group, we have already assessed that the Institute of the Consultative Referendum would be suitable for this issue, since it allows for the call for a referendum to be held in particular early enough to decide on this issue. However, we were also open to other solutions, such as the constitutional law on this issue or a special law, which we would later decide in the form of a legislative referendum. Unfortunately, however, it has proved that this political consensus has run out of energy and this month, since these discussions, has not been easy to come by. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have made it clear from the beginning in our programme that the Slovenian People's Party is for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. And we never opposed the call for a referendum. In the event of an advisory referendum, therefore, Slovenia would be assured of its readiness to comply with its obligations and commitments, which would follow the accession to the North Atlantic Union, also supported by its citizens and citizens, as soon as such a promise was made. As co-proposers of the consultative referendum, we know that the legislative body is not bound by the outcome of the consultative referendum. However, I would like once again to stress very clearly the importance of the will of the electorate, which we will respect in the parliamentary group. That is why we are also very clear and strongly in favour of the signing of a specific declaration on this issue. We also discussed this on the Foreign Policy Committee yesterday. Therefore, we also support this declaration to be signed by Members of the political parties represented in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you. Dr. Andrej Bajuk has the word for the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Surely there will be no surprise if I tell you here on behalf of the New Slovenia Group that we will not support this proposal. We cannot support this proposal for reasons which I will also explain. I would, however, like to begin with the position of the New Slovenia Group until Slovenia's accession to NATO. Although we are a party created in the turbulent days of the summer of 2000, we are not signatories to all these declarations that you have signed in this National Assembly and which, according to our assessment, should at least be binding on all those who here today are responsible to represent the will of the people. The fact is that in these decisions, the presidents of the parliamentary groups signed that this issue will be decided by citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Of course, this proposal that we have before us is not a decision. I'm sure you've heard that this is exactly the kind of proposal I had to mark as some kind of overpriced poll. The fact is that we do not need such a referendum and that you have committed yourself to this national assembly, that people will decide about it, but not just give their opinion. So, even though these statements or declarations do not bind us because we have not signed, we have not yet been in the political space, it is obvious that such a matter is indeed a matter for people to decide. However, I would also like to tell you, especially in this National Assembly, when we hear so many doubts about our positions and what we should have in mind about all these procedures and negotiations so far, what is the position of our party and therefore the New Slovenia Group until Slovenia's accession to NATO. We strongly support Slovenia's accession to NATO. Let there be no doubt about it. Why? Because we are convinced that, in this period and today's world, the issue of state security is better solved within the framework of united approaches than we have to deal with it ourselves. The fact is, if Slovenia wants and really needs to achieve the level of security that NATO is actually offering to join, if it wants to do so alone with its resources, we should sacrifice much more for this than we do now if we are to do so. And once we decide that a common approach is better than voluntary work or self-employed work in this area, then the question is: with whom. We have at least doubts about this issue. We are convinced that the role of NATO in the history of Europe has in fact also made it possible for us today to be what we are in this part of the territory in Europe, and that this has also happened, and that this has also happened, that we may be deciding on this today. We decide as a single country of that part of Europe that was previously unable to decide on these things at all. We demand that there be a final decision, that citizens decide on it, and that we do so without any doubt, and that we also make it through a binding decision. Yesterday, when I was also at the Foreign Policy Committee meeting and we did not support the rulings that are still in the debate today, but I merely stated that I publicly expressed my optimism that, until the process is complete, we may only find a better solution. Even now that the clock is running and it seems impossible to reach an agreement, I would like to end with optimistic words that I still hope that rationality will prevail and that we will not rush, as it seems, into some unwise decision that will have very severe consequences for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that we have only the European Union on the agenda at this point, although it will or will not take us to one side or the other. Please, however, try to keep the agenda items to the fullest extent. Thank you, Dr. Andrey Bayuk. Igor Štemberger has the word for the position of the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union, although it is not our view that it is best to hold a referendum on the same day with a referendum on NATO entry. However, when holding the referendums on the same day, we took into account in particular the desire for the second referendum, namely the one about Nate, to be signed at all, as well as the fact that the simultaneous implementation of the referendums costs halve. However, at this point, we point out that, while presenting the arguments for and against joining these two international organisations, we oppose the abuse of the European Union in convincing citizens to vote on the admission to NATO. It is unacceptable that the declarations that the European Union and NATO are the same medals may threaten the success of the Slovenian referendum on the entry into the European Union. For the time being, luckily, citizens still distinguish the big difference between the two organisations. This difference is also pointed out by representatives of the European Union, and we expect the government to give an objective warning to Slovenian citizens. If you do not do so, the most important foreign policy objective of Slovenia can be jeopardised after independence, which will require full responsibility. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are also concerned that despite Slovenia's entry into the European Union is much more important than its entry into NATO, the government is only concerned with NATO at this time, and the importance of joining the European Union is completely ignored. In addition, the European Union is still somehow equal to NATO. The logical consequence of this may be to significantly reduce support for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Therefore, in the Party of Youth Slovenia, we expect that the government will be much more committed in the pre-referendum period than it has been to inform citizens of the unique importance of joining the European Union, thus helping to support Slovenia's entry into the European Union by a majority referendum. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we will support the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's entry into the European Union and, of course, respect the decision taken at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. And also the position of the United List of Social Democrats to be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The United List of Social Democrats and its Group of Members consider the European Union's integration project to be the country's single and most important foreign policy project, all its citizens and citizens. We have adopted this project as a goal in preparation for the independence in which we participated. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and within it our Group of Members have made a concrete commitment to this objective, I can say, ten times. Whenever every year we have adopted a specific programme of work of the National Assembly in joining the European Union, whenever we consider the adoption of European legislation to be one of the fundamental objectives of this National Assembly, whenever we have accepted information and programmes on the competent working bodies, to be the starting points for our negotiations, etc., and to express the conviction of the urgency and usefulness of our country's entry into the European Union today, I would say, almost unnecessary. He needs to be stressed just so that no one can see it unless you've said it in particular. At the same time, we believe that it is such an important project that it is right for citizens and citizens to decide on it at the referendum, and that is why we have also identified ourselves. The proposal we signed to hold a referendum on the entry into the European Union on 23 March this year is also necessary for an acceptable, good, acceptable referendum. At the same time, in view of the concerns raised by this proposal, I would like to say some of our views. First time. Our view is that the consultation referendum will provide the necessary content in order to be sufficiently binding, morally and at the same time provide a basis for the functioning of the State, the parties and the national assembly. I would like to point out, however, that it is difficult to report to the United List of Social Democrats that it is against a binding referendum if it has already made such a formal proposal on 22 November and has been willing to adopt such a solution throughout all negotiations. Failure to look for concrete solutions is the reason that this has not been accepted. Because of us, it could be - and we would be better - if the referendum were binding. However, we believe that the warnings given that a binding referendum is possible: either through a change in the constitution or a change in legislation that may be subject to a re-referendum assessment in the light of our referendum decision, it appears to be taken into account and that the 23rd referendum can be carried out with certainty, also to meet these options, which our Referendum Law and the People's Initiative gives us that the referendum is formally appointed as a consultative, with all the mandatory moral and political – that we will implement it. If there's a solution, for something else, we don't run away from it today. Second. We were in favour of the referendum at the same time. Because 14 days ago we had two, because at the time it was predicted that we might have another one, because it would be right to rationalise the invitations we give to people, as well as the state costs. And since we have not seen any very serious reason for having two referendums, not a simultaneous referendum, two of them, we would not believe citizens and citizens to decide on each one at their own discretion and on their own. So far, public opinion polls have also shown that the majority of these definitions are supported by two referendums on the same day, and I think they are smart. The proposal for a referendum objects to the fact that it is a problem because it does not ensure that the same issue cannot be decided twice. That's right. That's true and that's not good. However, this moment requires our constitutional arrangements. On the other hand, we have not invented this: the United List of Social Democrats is one of the few that constantly very clearly warns that the organisation of referendums in our legal and constitutional system is not the most prudent and is not comparable to other countries in Europe. So far, the solution is such that a referendum is also possible on the law on the ratification of an international treaty. As long as that is the case, this option should be expressly excluded either from article 90 or from this case by a specific provision. As long as it's not, a referendum like this is possible. As far as we are concerned, we fully agree to exclude this. However, we think it would be right to have a more frank debate on the situation of the referendum in our system, but not just on a case-by-case basis. The next question was the question of the vote of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. On a proposal, the Constitutional Court settled the matter. We're glad that's the case. All we are proposing is that citizens and citizens abroad be allowed to participate. That's true if we call for a referendum early enough. If it is signed for only 30 days, regardless of the formal option given to it by the Constitutional Court, it will be very difficult to do so. Therefore, as soon as possible we will call for a referendum, this principle of cooperation of our citizens from abroad will be easier to implement. Last but not least, the constitutional provision has an article on determining the majority that is in harm's way, I would say, a positive outcome of the referendum. We are not opposed to the change, we just need a change of constitution and a concrete agreement to do so. We believe that it is right to call for a referendum as soon as possible, but at the same time to find solutions to those issues that we want together, but by sitting together and agreeing. Everything that is being done today and the methods that are being done today, which are not known what is public, what is not public, who is talking, who is making proposals, do not belong to the best results. Whoever's involved in all this, you know who's involved. In the end, let me say two more. We have been of the opinion that it is not necessary to invite the President of the State to make a statement on this. If they did not believe that the President of the State had stated many times that Slovenia was a member of the European Union and later NATO, they would have invited him to do so. If we believe or suspect that he has changed his mind, we simply believe that he has said this many times and that he still does. I doubt, however, that it is reputable for the President of the country to be asked procedural questions, because that is indeed our right and our responsibility. I would like, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, to sit properly on issues on which a common agreement can be found in addition to a referendum, without a fig tree in the table, to talk without prestige, who has proposed anything earlier, who has proposed something later, who thinks what, who doesn't, and to find in the interest of correct decision-making also after a decision to call for an advisory referendum the necessary solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I have allowed one replacement of the order of mutual colleagues and colleagues. If there's anything else, let me know. I therefore give the floor to my colleague Jelk Kacin to present my opinion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to talk in particular about the European Union, because this is a point of debate, which is that it is not only possible to talk about this only briefly, because a whole range of debaters convince us that we have made a historic mistake when we decide to call the two referendums at the same time. I am deeply convinced that this is the only wise and rational solution and there are many reasons for it. I would therefore like to explain once again in particular why we expect and demand that both referendums take place at the same time. If we're wasting our time here looking for an agreement, we really don't have to rape citizens and citizens to sacrifice Sunday for Sunday to let us know what they think about what we should have in common. So I think it's rational for these two questions to be addressed and answered at the same time. I must frankly admit that the key thing that has been bothering me for several weeks is to find the answer to how to overcome the current state of affairs, which is governed by the law on referendum and human initiative. For this law in its aftermath, in its implementation, causes the apathy of people, the lack of interest in common affairs and common needs, it discourages people from what we really want here: to engage in politics. Until we find a solution to sort of relieve them, we won't get far. However, the problem is, of course, that we send them different messages, the messages from this national assembly are not uniform. And if we send people different messages, we sow doubts. When one day after another, in a debate - I repeat that this is a consultation, not a decision - it discourages people from making decisions and tries to convince them that their civil cooperation is hopeless and unnecessary. This message is missing. And I just expect that in the coming weeks, we'll count each other, look into each other's eyes, and start talking together. I'm sorry, I think it's politically incorrect, I think it's really inappropriate for parliamentary parties to say that the European Union and the Union then do not judge together, or to argue that these are not two different salaries of one and the same medals. In order not to speak up, I would like to use some evidence that is comprehensible. I have before me a photocopy of an article that is two days old: "International Herald Tribune" published yesterday's article, followed by AP, Reuters and AFP agencies, entitled "EU to Head Macedonia Peacekeeping", the European Union will conduct a peace operation in Macedonia. You will not believe this, but this operation will be led by German Admiral Reiner Feist, who currently serves as Deputy Chief of NATO for Europe. And his seat will be where he is: at NATO headquarters for Europe, the headquarters of a man who will lead a peace operation in Macedonia on behalf of the European Union. And this is the first operation that the European Union is carrying out, the first operation of this type. Once again, I would like to say that let us, please, be aware that the European Union has no special mechanisms and that what our colleague, Victory Jelinčič, sometimes tells us, is how the Western European Union will do something and ensure an armed force for the European Union to throw sand. I understand that you are a Parliamentary looking for the opportunity to continue to work in the Parliamentary Assembly. But this assembly, apart from Parliament, does not contribute to peace operations, nor does it explain the effectiveness of the European Union. The only tool that the European Union can actually do on the ground is the NATO Alliance; and it does so, both at the actual and symbolic level, as I have just told you. And that's why it really offends me when representatives of the Social Democrats say that it doesn't work together. When, however, if we are talking about a medal, we must say that it is not possible to be for NATO at the same time and work on the other side so that we do not come to NATO. I do not see any party in this National Assembly who, contrary to the challenges of the referendum on 23 March, would give a different mandate to anyone in the executive power of the Republic of Slovenia to disregard the will of the people. People will decide on this referendum. It is true, however, that we have the law that we have prepared and until 2004 when ratifications are carried out in the Member States, we are having difficulty preparing a legislative referendum, it is simply not possible. That's why it's the only solution, because it's the only one, and it's the best, and it's completely clean. Therefore, it is unnecessary for us to listen to the defamation of the Institute of the Consultative Referendum all the time. Anyone who wants to argue about the form of a referendum for hours and hours is trying to reduce the time available for the contents of the referendum. The debate on the form shall evaluate the substance and content. Therefore, it seems to me that it is high time that we stop telling things that are to the detriment of our joining NATO and only contribute to the misunderstanding of matter among our people. So, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not consult on this referendum, it will continue to decide and decide on the invitation to tender and will respect people's decision. Then I think it's important that I also draw attention to some of the things that are so categorically expressed here, but they don't. I'm trying very hard to bite my tongue so I don't miss any other illustration of what I'm doing. But it's not good to have someone pull away, some political entity backing up a nationwide project, and then accuses the ruling coalition of escaping it. After someone “moves it out of the package” accuses those who are left alone. I'm sorry, colleagues, that's incorrect. And I think that citizens and citizens already understand this and that we do not have to be afraid of the success of the referendum. The claim that Slovenian citizens cannot vote in a referendum, even abroad, is not true. This has been said several times, but I'm sorry, it's said twice in the mill, but it looks like in the National Assembly it's time to say five times that someone would say again that it's not true. By decision U-1-261/02-12, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of Article 47 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative because it did not set a time limit within which citizens could communicate abroad that they wanted to vote in the referendum and thus were prevented from participating in the referendum. The Constitutional Court has set a deadline of 15 days and thus, within a period of 30 to 45 days for the implementation of the referendum, has made it possible to prepare the referendum in a timely manner and thus to vote in a referendum. It seems to me that we will catch these hands and that we will allow our citizens abroad to do so. But if we tell them this is a consultation, we won't get their votes. However, if that is the case, I believe that people will take hours and hours to get to the embassy or consulate so that they can give their vote “for”. The claim that the ruling coalition did not respect the outcome of the consultative referendums for the establishment of new municipalities is, in no way, true. In its final decision on the proposals for the establishment of new municipalities under the Law on Local Self-Government, the National Assembly established only municipalities fulfilling the statutory criteria. The decision was also confirmed by the Constitutional Court, which rejected all proposals made by citizens who failed to annul the decision of the National Assembly; and the decision of the Constitutional Court in that country counts. In the end, there's only one small thing left. Today it was said how bad it was because there was no representative of the opposition in Prague. This is no problem, the problem is that there was no representative of Parliament in Prague, nor was there a ruling coalition; only the executive power was there. Let me remind you that we have been one of the few countries that has actively worked when it comes to negotiations and entry into the European Union, even at the parliamentary level, and that is why we now have such a high level of support. But we were all on the same side and we weren't there. So that not only the opposition would cry, the parliament simply was not there. Therefore, at the conclusion, colleagues and colleagues, I hope and believe, as has already been said here today, that in the coming days we can come to the realization that the debate on the form of a referendum - without being meaningless, is still subject to - but is harmful and discourages voters and voters from deciding on the content. Therefore, it is time to stop wasting time on this and focus our efforts on convincing people with arguments why it is good to be on the inside of the Nato wall, not camping outside the wall and pretending to be Indians who can be successful in the southeast of Europe. That, I think you should tell people. And if the opposition also decides to go to the inside of the wall, it can confirm this by actions and by putting an end to the repeated debates which are detrimental to the success of the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you. I give my word to Ivan Kebrich, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Why do our parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Pensioners support the opportunity for citizens to make a statement at the referendum on integration into the European Union? We believe that it is precisely the opportunity of a referendum where citizens will be explained what are the reasons for the national assembly to vote what is important for the decision to join the European Union to present them in this time of debate, which will be very extensive, with arguments that say 'yes', why it is good for Slovenia to go to the European Union. Individuals still oppose it, for when we look at or read letters from readers, they are just individuals who are against it. Most citizens speak to Members when we associate with them in one way or another, yes, that is positive. Most citizens have accepted our efforts to adapt our legislation to the European Union. The majority of citizens have welcomed our negotiators who are in negotiations for harmonisation in these and other areas with the European Union, which we have closed in time so that we can receive this invitation. Therefore, we do not fear that at the referendum, the majority of citizens would not positively declare themselves and vote in favour of Slovenia joining the European Union. They are aware, with us at the helm - I think this needs to be stressed, with us at the helm - which are the advantages of entering the European Union and what we will get from there. A purely flat-rate, populism advocates a certain price increase and it is said, yes, we must approach European prices. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, citizens and citizens tell us the same thing when we go or become members of the European Union, our salaries will also have to be equal to average European wages if we have average European prices. Therefore, they appreciate all efforts to reduce inflation, because without bringing it to some average European level, there is no prospect of balancing prices and incomes, not just saying the salaries of citizens. Why do young people also say that they are for this and not just older people to join the European Union? Above all, because knowledge is especially forcing, there is no progress without knowledge. After all, we have all come to understand this, and that is what this knowledge will do in the European space, and it will not be afraid that the Slovenian people will lose their identity. Only knowledge, I repeat, will make us work and free movement not only of the workforce, not only in the first place of capital and the rest, but also the flow of knowledge is what will apply to all those who want not only at home, but also in the European space to seek work, profit and otherwise take effect. The common market will give us more opportunities to expand our production, which the older generation says: that we have created conditions for the younger generation, not only have we built factories, one, the other, and the third, to build infrastructure, but these are conditions that need to be used intensively for general well-being and for that progress and for that implementation that we want to have and enforce in Europe. To conclude, I'd say just the following. We have no fear of losing our identity, because our laws that we accept, that even in certain services, foreigners will have to know our language if they want to and want to get a job with us, as our citizens will be forced to learn that language when looking for employment in other European countries. We have no fear that the referendum will fail, and we object if we do not respect it, but what if it is one way or another that a subsequent referendum is needed. We firmly believe that if all the parties and all the Members who say that we have joined the European Union, this will be explained to the citizens and the result of the referendum will be more; more than two-thirds positive why we should then have another legislative, such or otherwise referendum. All those who oppose it, I believe, are hunting for every straw that flows through a stream or another, saying one thing. But the fact is that we citizens expect us to adapt our legislation at such a pace - why we have adapted it, because we were Members, Members believe that certain European laws are more positive, better, so we have changed them. We have not changed any of our laws if it was better than the European average or minimum required there. I believe that with optimism we can expect all the good and good results of the referendum, and that is why we are slowly getting on our nerves and our patience and patience, although we stress it this way, it is once again over. Every decision must be made once and only delay can bear nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dr. Brace's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Social Democratic Party has only once demonstrated its firm faith in the European Union, in a community in which our citizens will have greater opportunities for development, etc., so that I do not repeat everything we have heard in this space a hundred times. Of course, it must be said that it surprises us that the ruling coalition accuses a minority in this House of something that it could have done a long time ago. Look, since when are you so in Liberal Democracy, the United List, etc., in the coalition so mildly sensitive. Whenever you decided to accept something, you accepted it and it didn't matter what the opposition said; but now, when we talk about the European connection, now, you are trying to find many ways to say: the opposition is stalling these things. If you had this power and if you believed what you were saying yourself, it would have been a referendum a long time ago, but the problem is that there is no unity in your kind. The Social Democratic Party is certainly among the most active in the international field when it comes to European affairs. And so is the opposition party and Nova Slovenija! In the Convention, Mr Peterlet and I are among the most active members, and we are also involved in the creation of European documents. Because this government has so far not considered the Convention to be an important issue. I simply ask what the position of this Government is on this and this issue, which will be on the agenda of the Convention. There's no point! Others, on the other hand, come with their views. Yesterday I was with representatives of three other countries, so four representatives of the convention, four countries, we were invited to talk to Joschka Fischer. In an hour of discussion, we exchanged views on the current issues of the Convention, as well as on how the enlargement process is going. I can tell you that it was a big surprise when I said it was March 23rd that we were going to vote on the EU. And the questions kept on raining, yes, but how are you going to run the campaign at that time, but you think this is what you do without campaigning; yes, but do you know what the EU is? Do they think that the EU is just a house full of well-being, or do they know that there is a lot of work in the EU, and so on. They think that this behavior is quite unusual, mildly put, but I do not hope to say the terms that were said at dinner, because they are much more of an anecdotes and "crushing" jokes at our expense: at the expense of our government, at the expense of our country. They say: yes, but what is the relationship in your Parliament - I say two-thirds has a coalition, the real opposition is gathering 21 seats. Yeah, he says we don't understand that at all. Then why doesn't the government drive it without you? The answer is simple: Because this government hopes to take responsibility when it comes to good things and when there is a likelihood that something will happen, the opposition is here. And, of course, you will convince the public, as Mr Kacin used to say, with such demagogism, and, of course, with 100% media support, that 21 Members in this House are guilty of everything that is wrong in this country. You know, it can understand and accept only part of the Slovenian electoral body, and it will eventually come to its senses. That is to say, we are the first to have a referendum on the European Union, the first, and allow ourselves to have such debates or you are pacifying and sinning with these decisions. And why do you do that, one wonders. I already said that because there's uncertainty in your own kind about how this is actually going to end. You're not as capable as a government as a coalition to take responsibility. If we were the European type government, we would say: the referendum will be then and the dot, you go with it or not, that is your responsibility, if the referendum fails, we will just get to know our part of the responsibility and step down. This is what the European government does, and this is what European policies do. Mr Rob, as Prime Minister, reminds me more of this, but don't take it literally now, to that famous Slovenian, when we say: a dog that barks a lot doesn't bite. And I haven't said any insults now. Man likes to speak out loud and grunt, but to find this power to decide the matter and not to make it. We have different views here. We believe that the transfer of sovereignty is so important that we must carry it out with the highest degree of commitment. And this is a referendum-binding, however we want to say - one that really has the highest degree of credibility; but you are against it. Why are you against it? You never say that. And I don't care why you're against it. But the fact that you are unable to carry out this project, as would the normal government, which has two-thirds and more majority support in Parliament, be able to implement it. Look, you can even afford to ask yourself that without asking the President of the country if he might still be willing to come here if he wants to come here and say, "Listen, I've been here five times before, and I'm going to be six more times." No, you take that right from him. Please, it's more yours than ours, but it's your business. It's just not how you do it. This is not how they do it in European parliaments! I can tell you that. And now why is that? How is that supposed to work now? He has me to comment on what Mr Kacin has said, but it is better not to waste time with this, because that is true, I am surprised that he has used such strange words, because otherwise he is a reasonable man, I know him here and there. And today, these were amazing things. Okay, I won't comment. But the reason you're doing this at all is interesting. You've spent the fall to figure out what it'll look like after the president of your party, that's Drnovšek, took on another function. You've concentrated all your energy on this and the division of positions after his departure. That is why you did not have time to seriously prepare a referendum to join the European Union and also the one we have at the next point. Now there's another chaos in your species. Why? Because you have a congress on 14 February and, of course, it is quite clear that those who will now give up this opposition have a less chance of coming through in your vote. It is said that the interests of the State are subject to your individual interests, and here follows a very simple conclusion. Just as it wasn't about the country in 1991, you're not doing it today. This is mainly about your own ass. And that's the essence of all these complications. So we will certainly do everything in our power to succeed the referendums, because we are very keen on Slovenia's success in the European family, where it belongs. However, we expect those who have power in this House to know your mistake. 21 people cannot play a decisive role where 90 people sit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Brace. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have repeatedly stressed, at all in my role in the European Affairs Commission and in my discussions with fellow Members from European countries, that our party is Euro-realistic. Some also call it Eurosceptic, but both realism and skepticism mean that in the Slovenian National Party we look at what is good and on the other hand, we turn the medal over what is bad. It is true that today we are talking about procedural decision-making, which is certainly related to some very important content, which, of course, also proves such a long list of speakers, and it is true that it would be good for people, that I am sorry that this has not been done, to say more than they know about the European Union - both good and bad. For more than 50 years in Europe, it has been good to work in Europe to equalise the conditions of production, organisation of work and life. That the European Union brings the Schengen border and different relations with our neighbours. That the European Union does not only bring European wages, but also European standards, which we will not achieve with our situation. And there are a lot of things that people should hear and then make up their minds. It is also important to tell people that - I refer to a respected colleague of Kebrich, who says how enthusiastic and enthusiastic Slovenians are, only individuals are “against”. You know, I know a couple of entrepreneurs who are crazy excited about Europe, and they're actually closed down in Trbovje or Zasavje, and they're opening them up - do you know where? They are being built in Bosnia, Serbia, Macedonia. The great enthusiasts of Europe are building factories there. This is also a question that people should talk about, or these people should tell them why they do it. And that I won't be too long and steal time - for the procedural part. In my opinion, the referendum should be separate. However, I understand that the implementation of the referendum is a great cost for this country and especially for taxpayers. I understand and I believe that the content is misleading. And that's what I'm trying to say. The referendum is for me. And I do not want any official interpretations of what is consultative, what is questionable, what is binding. For me, I speak personally, as a Member of the Slovenian National Party, it is and would be binding on the referendum. And in the Slovenian National Party, in particular myself, I absolutely support the decision of people to take such a big step as the merger into a large country, with more than 500 million inhabitants and the NATO military organisation. I must say that I am to blame for that second paragraph in the Foreign Policy Committee and Commission Decision for the European Union, which states that the Committee is proposing to the National Assembly, before the call for the referendum, to adopt an appropriate act to comply with the outcome of the referendum. I commit myself publicly, loudly, and here. True, many may not, so this act is written. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Initially, a procedural initiative could be given. Indeed, it would make sense to discuss both issues together, since it is probably the only key question of the nature of this referendum. For me, I must say at this point that the nature of the referendum, whether it be either an advisory or a preliminary legislative or a subsequent legislative referendum, or whatever we call it, is such an important referendum that I will respect it, the will of the people, as well as the entry into the European Union, as well as the entry of Slovenia into the NATO Union. In particular, all parliamentary parties, most parliamentary parties, have committed themselves to these two projects a long time ago, and so at this point I see no reason, I seriously see no reason why there is a scene about what the title of this referendum must be. In my opinion, there is no parliament, no government and no president of this country who would not respect the decision at these two referendums. Therefore, I am sure that even any procedural “finte”, if we call it, of a possible subsequent legislative referendum, is possible, but the question of who will take them seriously. It is likely that matters will have to go through Parliament, but citizens will no longer take them seriously. These two referendums will be those referendums where citizens will clearly express their decision and their will. Therefore, I do not think that we should mix the content of these two referendums with the content of other referendums and, in my opinion, there are questions as to how these two referendums should be heard or, above all, whether there is further confusion in the electorate or whether the voter's interest in participating in these two referendums should be reduced, and how these two referendums should be decided. The question of amending the Constitution, where to define invalid ballots, is also raised. That's a legitimate question. On the other hand, I am sure that a large, large majority of voters and voters will be able to decide on both the proposed referendum issues, which are clear, on which there have been many speeches. Therefore, especially in this part to work on the interest that the invalidity of the voice is not recognised to anyone is, according to my assessment, the search for mistrust of our citizens and citizens, how they will decide or whether they can make a decision. Above all, I think that all who are interested in this referendum being successful, whether it is a position or an opposition, should strive to speak to citizens about all positive, as well as to make clear about those negative reasons or arguments for entry and arguments that do not favour entry into one or another integration. And one more thing. I am sure that if we were to adopt amendments to the Constitution at this time, before deciding on the two referendums, Parliament would be making a turn, it would be premature. In fact, on the basis of the decisions of the two referendums, it makes sense, in my opinion, to write such international integration directly into the Constitution. I will vote in favour of both referendums or decrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as many of us are already in this hall! Allow me to express my opinion on the proposal to call for a referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. Yeah, the word is "consultative," and whatever you're turning, it's a fact. Each country, each nation rarely finds itself in a position to place its sovereignty or part of its sovereignty elsewhere. For such matters it is necessary to choose a very important path, a very weighty technique, which will be indisputably clear for citizens, without any accusation. Exactly! Citizens are not interested in this debate in the National Assembly; they are only interested in their will actually being realized. It is our duty and our duty to create such a technique, such that their voice will be valid. All those things that hinder this must also be removed in accordance with the legislation, and this was our wish, the voice of the opposition or the coalition of Slovenia and, in the first place, New Slovenia. Now was the time, probably too late, and there are other reasons why we are facing this issue so late, but before we go to a campaign for the EU and for NATO, these dilemmas must be resolved. That was our initiative. And it was time to do so, with the dictions that could be written within two or three days, already in January and would require a trifling effort - half the page of the text, nothing more, you know that. So that people - people's will actually come true. There is no dispute as to how we will vote on the European Union as well as on NATO. We've already told you. It is true whether citizens still trust us. In some cases, the referendums where the crowd went, a million people to the referendum, and then, through the will of the Members, something different happened. Through the will of some who said: there is no god or constitutional court to convince me that I will vote like this. However, it was slightly different, perhaps it made sense, I do not object to the Member's will or decision. We must accept such a mechanism that this will of the people who are primary will not be undermined in such a way. For here stand two techniques: direct decision-making and indirect; parliamentary decision-making and decision-making of the people through the referendum. And it is the task of the Constitutional Court, the judges, the professions and also this Parliament to act to ensure the techniques and procedures that will lead to the exercise of human will in the right way. Of course, you'll say, now I'm making some commotion again or he doesn't think it's going to happen. I hope that, despite your predominant decision that such a referendum will be held, that it will be respected and I will be happy. But how can we trust our citizens if their will has already broken? Look. Parliamentary parties in the previous constitution have signed a solemn promise that they will stick to and join the EU and NATO - that I will not be mistaken, including NATO. Among these are the national party that signed this. At the time, their will was such - they signed a paper to get in, there was a campaign to keep them from entering. Then we have the experience of a referendum on the electoral system, and now we have a conclusion that will come true this time. Wait, but people aren't crazy, people are interested in the credibility you've shown in the most important things so far. That's what respectable colleagues and colleagues are all about. And in order not to prevent us from making the topping clear, indisputably, we have proposed these things. So, with regard to invalid ballots, then to vote on one thing only once, this was our proposal, making the referendum binding. You'll say, in time. The ruling coalition had the opportunity to carry out procedures of its own volition last July, September, December, but it ran out of time because of the more important topics such as elections, the embodiment of the president of the country in its own image - yes it is! Time has run out - about the sovereignty of Slovenia. We don't want to block, we can't. After all, all that our conversations have been, even those informal ones recorded by the press, you don't need them, then why are you talking. But because the newspaper says that you are saving the coalitions of Slovenia — no! Because you are not sure of your own actions or your own speech, and this can be felt among people. The dissipation among people is not because Nova Slovenije would introduce it, but because those who have power have the greatest influence through the media are not convinced of it. Officially - yes, but the actions they trigger at this show something else. That's what we need to think about. Our constituents want to have a clear path, and this is until the decision is taken. However, there is nothing wrong with that decision if we are also negotiating, only to come up with a technical solution that will be indisputable and clear, and then any debate is really superfluous. But it's crazy, but it's against the principles and the project set by the state. Now, you're asking us to start a campaign instead. Yeah, you can't go campaigning if there's questions like that and dilemmas like that. Mr Potrč, my colleague, mentioned the consideration of the Prime Minister. Given what has been happening, it would certainly be very good, even in terms of a solution, if the President appeared at this assembly and said a clear, frank word and encouraged citizens and citizens in this way too. He has to take advantage of this opportunity. I think that was a good suggestion. At what, though, should the President of the country appear, at what times? When it comes to sovereignty. Not at the opening of the road in Upper Kungoto, although I do not underestimate this project. But here's the most - and I didn't understand that, these gestures of rejecting this opportunity. Because he would have helped all of this, especially because some dilemmas had arisen regarding his statements, I don’t know why, perhaps even because of newspapers that had been misinterpreted. These things happen to us a lot. To clear it up, to clarify it with an honest word. Now, therefore, with regard to the very contents of the European Union. For us, this is a challenge, a good challenge and a good opportunity, a historic opportunity. In Europe, on our identity, on the preservation of culture, I think we need to ask ourselves, above all, if anything goes wrong in this regard, it will be because of our own negligence or lack of interest. The European framework offers a good position to establish a language so that our language can be heard equally in Brussels to decide on this European building. Knowledge, as Mr Kebrič mentioned, will be applied, but we must do so again in our own backyard. If funding for the university is falling from 2 billion to 700 million, then we can expect it to be primarily certified in this country, not knowledge, with which we will compete in the European space. I'm interested in facts, content, not papers. And that's what young generations need. And we have to take care of it in our backyard. Europe will not save us in this regard. But this cannot stop us in any way. This is an opportunity to enter such an economic, cultural and - you don't want - political space. As our word will also apply, so will our culture - all equally. Well, that's what we should consider when we decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of grandkids.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Finally, we can say that we have welcomed the invitation and, of course, the admission to the European Union as expected. There's still a few things ahead of us. The negotiations are closed, we have results, and we are now facing a referendum to have citizens pleading. However, given the abundance of referendums - even in the latter, we can see that participation was very low - I believe that for this referendum, not only for NATO, but also for the European Union, we should favour more, both funds, advertising and engagement, so that success could be about the same as it was, say, a plebiscite decision on Slovenia's independence. I believe that the results of the negotiations we have reached would be those who would now be the thing of this campaign, no longer the reasons we have already had in this house, “for” or “against” as much as we have received. It is clear that we see in which areas we have been successful or less successful, and we are still pleased to work out what these areas bring us. In the final phase, whether we are even able to distribute those funds in a timely and correct manner and that the beneficiaries will be satisfied, but not that we will then spend a long time working on how to use the funds or engage in areas that we have negotiated. A concrete example, for example, can be said that we were almost the best in the agricultural field, but the question is, if those, I will say, farmers will receive these funds so that these funds will be squandered somewhere - in various chambers and other such institutions. On the other hand, there are still inspections of the European Union that are checking on us - we are still within the deadlines - whether there are specific areas, such as in the field of food, or whether we are meeting the conditions. And here the public still rightly wonders how it is that, for example, we still require some higher levels of food, some stricter criteria as they apply, for example, if we just walk through European capitals, we see that there, for example, food is sold on the street, literally on the street. We do not have the option that such a plant or such a trade could succeed are immediately closed three times. But that's possible there, and that's what people see. I think it's our job to explain why we now demand that some butchers almost wanted to, and what then, when we are in the European Union - but then whoever remembers will be able to sell something on the street, I'll say, a suspicious reputation from even more suspicious sellers. Here are some questions that still need to be clarified. Advertising itself - we are known as good organisers in various fields, but in the end we have many times only the costs - say, the chess Olympics in Bled. Fourteen days before the opening, construction works took place there - just as a figure of speech. And now the congregation is left with only the cost of not being able to market in time. For example, in America, it would also be a caricature to join the European Union for a year before a variety of advertising campaigns, from the fact that the sign of the European Union on - from socks forward as a trade mark, but I am not saying that it is necessary for us to do so, but I think that we are also doing too little in this way, that we also know as a trade mark to break through the referendum, that people will get some consciousness and create some European atmosphere. I think that this atmosphere is lacking for all of us, and people are getting the wrong impression, and I think that something needs to be done to create some European atmosphere before the referendum, because it will be the one that will finally cement our decision. And in the end, I would like to say, as our group leader said in the presentation, that it is clear that we will support this decree, we are also in favour of joining the European Union. But we do not intend to sign the declarations ourselves, because it seems kind of ridiculous to us, more to this point, that all this will of citizens, whether it is a consultative referendum or any other, is binding on us, and we could compare that every law we adopt should then, instead of the President of the National Assembly itself, be signed by all Members, that we should really confirm with our signature that we will respect it. So much for this declaration, which is said to further confirm the commitment to a decision at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. I don't see my friend Fari Horvat in the hall, so I ask my colleague Jožet Ašić for his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Personally, I am very sorry that today is a lost opportunity for us to say much more about what has been done so far on the path of joining the European Union. To be able to tell what we have done in Parliament, what the government has done in the negotiations, what awaits us when we are a member of the European Union. This journey was in fact not a journey to India, and the European Union is not one of these. And why don't we take advantage of today instead of arguing and listening to the obvious, especially from the opposition types - or to be consistent - especially from the opposition's part, we could actually use it much better. However - well, I am sure that the resolution on the call for an advisory referendum will be adopted today, and of course I am sure that immediately from this point forward, information in the public will have to be very real about where we are going and where we will be. Personally, I am pleased that we will become members of this great European family, of course we will have to be able to answer a whole range of questions about how we will solve certain areas. The Schengen border, for example, is one of those who, in some way along the border, give rise to uncertainty, but we must say that our negotiators have provided not only funds for the maintenance and functioning of the border regime linked to the Schengen Agreement, but also substantial funds for regional development and regional initiatives in this area. So if we can make use of this in Slovenia, we can also use Schengen areas, areas that will in some way, at least for a certain time, with a new curtain, still be able to live and manage better than before. Above all, what we have already heard loudly is that much has been achieved in the field of agriculture. And that the tasks of our professional services, both governmental and all possible agencies and, above all, the chambers, are to take advantage of this and to arrange for the restructuring of agriculture so that it is comparable to European agriculture and in doing so successfully. I also took the floor at this point because, as Vice-President of the Slovenian Commission around the world, I say that Slovenians in place, particularly those with the status of minority nationalities in Italy, Austria and Hungary, are in some way looking forward to our involvement in the European Union, in particular for these reasons that they expect the obligations of the countries in which they live to be made easier and better achieved than ever before, that there will be no complications in the implementation of the law, as is the case in Italy, that there will be no complications in the financing of the minority radio than this case in Austria. Of course, there is uncertainty about the situation of all those Slovenians who, once as economic immigrants, have ended or lived in Germany, Sweden and other countries, the current Member States of the European Union, because their status will not be the status of foreigners and will be the status of equivalent citizens in the European Union. And in this area, we will have to do a lot in Slovenia if we want to keep our Slovenia in these areas in the long term, where it is already being lost and where third generations, without our domestic incentives, will no longer know what the Slovenian language is and where their real homeland is. I expected all this to be said today. In this way, we have been faced with the testimony of those who, in some way or in a declaration, support entry into the European Union and do not want to hear the right opinion. It is paradoxical that those who do not wish to join the European Union, however, support the referendum - in short, as I began, the damage is this day, it is a little strange, but I hope that we will end it by having both referendums and, of course, also being able to present both issues at such a level that the referendum will succeed. I am sure that we will all, both Parliament and Government, will stick to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Azhish. I don't see my colleague Jerovsk in the hall. My friend Kramberger. Please, you have the floor. No, no, no. Comrade Bernick? Neither do I. My friend Potts? My friend Lukic, he's not in the hall. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, as many of you are still here. I thought a little more optimistic today to speak and express my joy that we are actually at a point where we are talking more seriously about the European Union. For at one time the borders were broken down only by war and blood, if we mention only the Roman Empire and the like, and the nations were violently united, by losing their identity, we are actually on the threshold of experiencing these uniques of history ourselves, so that we can actually remain friends with other nations in such a way that, in fact, with agreement and cooperation, we are able to break down the boundaries that history has set, and thus preserve our identity. I think that in all this we should be given some joy and not arguing, some search for the best possible options and not accumulation and generation of ever-new conflicts. As for the mode of the referendum itself, I am surprised that some Members are actually speaking and somehow reading to the Social Democrats, that we are constantly talking about this in a negative sense and that we are somehow deterring people from the seriousness of the referendum by telling them that it is a consultation referendum and not a decision-making referendum. I don't think we can hide it from the voters, we can't lie, we can't cheat, we have to say it's a consultation referendum, nothing else. At the same time, I wonder why we are not able to find among the good options - even this referendum is not to be ignored, a referendum of a consultative nature - but why we are not looking for a better option, why we do not accept why the National Assembly does not accept the much better option that we have offered in the coalition of Slovenia. This option is feasible, is better, gives a sense of greater seriousness and would attract more serious voters. But it is so that most of them stay with their own, and most of them will, of course, decide. However, I reiterate that we should express more joy at the threshold of the European Union at the time before the referendum, because somehow the mood in the national assembly is reflected in the media and the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Bajuk would now be on his turn, but I do not see him in the hall, so I will give my word to my colleague, Josef Školč, who is also not at this moment, Franz Pukšič - I do not see him, Ivan Mamić - nor, Pavle Rupar - nor will I, so I will give my word to Aloyz Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, colleagues and colleagues. The way Slovenia is going into a relationship with the European Union and the NATO Union is kind of strange. This is reflected throughout the debates that are taking place here today at this plenary session, but they have, of course, come into place much earlier. I apologize, President, in advance so that I may link these two issues in some way. For there are also points on consultative referendums or bill proposals in some way linked, although of course there are two very different issues. I would like to say that the very inclusion of these two points on the agenda of the January session was a rather strange matter, and the Rules of Procedure Commission should have interpreted that, because of the urgent needs or extraordinary needs of the State, the third paragraph of Article 184 is not to be taken into account, namely this third paragraph184. The Rules of Procedure fully specify how to proceed when a preliminary legislative referendum is drawn up. So, the Rules of Procedure Commission, I'm told, has, in the third paragraph, excited itself despite the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service. That's what I'm saying. Then I'll come back to this thing again. It is true, however, that, on this occasion, when we decide in Parliament on such an important topic as the European Union, we should talk much more about the European Union, it is said, the content itself, not the procedure. However, the ruling coalition, of course, by blackmail and by what you have done, has forced the opposition to talk significantly more about the procedure than about the content itself. I agree with those who have warned that by 23 March, when the referendum takes place, it is not possible to carry out some pre-election activity and it is not possible for the majority of Slovenians to convince them of the need for Slovenia to enter the European Union. In particular, I am afraid, or I am sure, that it will not be possible to convince Slovenian farmers, even though negotiators are trying and explaining how successful they have been in these pre-accession negotiations and how quickly Slovenia has concluded and closed certain pre-accession areas. If you ask Slovenian farmers today, they will tell you they are against the European Union. Why do they think that? Because essentially the situation in Slovenian agriculture is getting worse from day to day. Repro prices are rising, they are at price in the European Union, while prices of agricultural products are decreasing. They are encouraged by the government, or the Ministry, to receive a direct payment by agreeing in the European Union that Slovenia will be able to pay from its own budget faster and that the missing part of direct payments. However, Slovenian farmers are aware that it will not be possible to live on subsidies or direct payments, because our farms are significantly smaller than farms in the European Union. On average, they're four times smaller. And if I simplify this, our farmers will in any case receive four times less money than the remuneration of direct payments that farmers in the European Union receive. How to be competitive under equal conditions in the face of such inequalities. These are probably the things that are causing great dilemmas at the moment. However, in order to make these dilemmas even bigger, the Slovenian agricultural area has recently been creating an affair. Once we have BSE, then there are natural disasters such as drought, the government and parliament adopt a law that does not serve our agriculture, does not help it, then there is an affair with milk, and farmers then rightly begin to question whether these agreements in Brussels have been as favourable as our negotiators like to commend them. I'm personally sure you don't. Because if these arrangements were so beneficial, then Slovenia would not be having such an affair as the chloramphenicol affair in relation to milk. It was essentially, personally, to reduce milk production in Slovenia. And you can be sure or in newspapers you can read how much the stock of Slovenian bovine animals has been reduced in the last year, in the last year and a half. And since Slovenia is a grassland where 75% of the areas under the grass are, of course, cattle for our country are essential. So, I am talking at this point about the content of accession in the European Union, I am talking about pressing issues, which I see that certain Members do not show any particular interest, as if these were not the topics that need to be discussed. I am talking about this in particular because if we want some form of plebiscite decision to enter the European Union, then we should actually convince all categories of Slovenian citizens and citizens. It will be very bad if a layer of the population feels left out when entering the European Union. And this seems to me that in the area of agriculture, which is very strongly linked to rural development, will also actually happen. If I touched the procedure myself, at first I was sure whether we had a consultative or binding referendum in Slovenia. But when a person starts to think a little differently from ordinary citizens than politicians, and starts to compare what has actually happened and happened in the past, of course this is no longer the case. The fact is, what my forerunners have already said is that the government, Parliament has not really respected the most decisive referendum of citizens so far. The citizens' will not have been respected, expressed in terms of the majority electoral system. In spite of the two-time decision of the Constitutional Court, the Parliament, to put it mildly, has changed its constitution. And what helps if today the LDS Member, Mr Kacin, says that we have a constitutional court in this country. We do, but the decisions of the Constitutional Court, if necessary, are not respected, as is the referendum will of people. And what can we as the opposition say to our citizens before they go to the consultation referendum? In any case, they need to be told the truth: the referendum is consultative, not binding, and whether or not the ruling coalition will respect it - we do not know this, but even if you accept an obligation, a charter, some kind of declaration that you will respect the referendum. This is like going to confession, confessing your sins, making promises, and making a conclusion with yourself that you will no longer sin, but then repeating the matter again. And if I didn't repeat it again, I'd write it down in a document, and I'd sign that. The fact is that the will of citizens has already been played many times in this House. The fact is that the Constitution was not respected either, because when your fellow Member Jelko Kacin said that you had respected the law establishing the congregations, of course it was not true - you did not respect the law establishing the congregations, you did not respect the article 13a, which speaks when the congregation could be established under special conditions. And why can all of this actually happen in this country? It can happen for a simple reason, because the media, which favors the ruling coalition in particular, covers all of this and actually shows already in advance the failure of the referendum than, I don't know, defeating the opposition or blaming the opposition for such a situation in that country. You don't have to go far back, you can read an article in a newspaper that was published today in Del, where a journalist says the ruling coalition saves the opposition before the referendum on NATO entry. This is, in fact, the wrong world for me, where the opposition, which has not done anything so far against Slovenia not joining the European Union or NATO, is to be held accountable for any failure at the referendum itself. Let me mention something else. Two days ago, in the newspaper Delo, an interview with also your Member, Mr Yuri, said that 20 to 30% of the members of the ruling coalition were not intimately convinced that Slovenia should join the NATO Union. So under such assumptions and in the face of such dilemmas as you are triggering in the public, and on the basis of which you are giving the public a signal that you are not completely for NATO, it is of course very difficult to convince the opposition to support some form of consultation referendum, which you will then, of course, if you do not, then you will find some way to play it again, as you have done several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan and Ms Marija Tisovic would now have the floor from the panellists. Excuse me? Procedurally, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to remind you of your duty to follow the debate, not to keep talking, because this congregation looked like a Balkan tavern, and everyone was talking on average, and you didn't even notice it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u76	During my session, Dr. Bernick, I can also consult on the solutions that follow. But the debate isn't about me, it's about everything. Mrs. Majda Zupan, you want a word because you're up for discussion?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Today, when we are discussing the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on both entry into the European Union and NATO, I do not think it is everyday. We ask ourselves, what is actually the referendum that we are supposed to decide on? The referendum is a mechanism of democratic decision-making, it is a way to review certain projects, it is a weapon in the hands of a minority, it is a possibility to limit the power of ruling parties, something we could say. If I simplify - the referendum is the right of citizens to vote on a question. And today we are deciding on such an important issue as joining the European Union and the NATO Union. Our demands, the demands of the Slovenian Coalition to decide in such a way that the referendum would be binding, that everyone would actually step for this project and that everyone would actually think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u78	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u79	That as we decide to do, we actually do it. [[...]] I think our demands were perfectly legal and legitimate. Therefore, the latter also requires that the form of the referendum be stated by the President of the Republic, I think it was perfectly correct and that we could have expected it to be realized. In fact, the President of the Republic could demonstrate by his performance and by his state-of-the-art attitude that the project is extremely important and that this could actually be the beginning of a debate on the entry into and entering the European Union. I am myself in favour of entering both NATO and the European Union, but such a proposal as I have before me cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you. This was a debate between Members and Members, which I am concluding with this. We will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Since one proposal has been made on behalf of the Committee to propose to the National Assembly, I would ask the President of the Committee, before calling for the referendum, to adopt an appropriate act to comply with the outcome referendum, to explain this, because we must then work and adopt such an act. If not, I will put this proposal into procedural decision to make a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u81	Therefore, the National Assembly was informed of the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which proposes that we adopt an appropriate decision before the referendum is called for, an act by which we will commit ourselves to respect the referendum outcome. Mr President of the Committee, can you be more specific about what kind of act would this be?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u82	Mr. President! Members and members of the Committee on Foreign Policy have called on all Members and Members or investors of the proposal to draw up an act, taking into account the discussions and preparations for the referendum call for proposals, so we have named them to respect their will. In line with what I said in the debate and the endless stories about whether this referendum is binding or not, this statement would facilitate understanding that it is not a consultation but a decision. But I understand that your dilemma is when such an act should be prepared. Our aim was to have, by the date of the call - and in the decree, by 7 February, if that date was to be completed or amended, and by the amended date - the proposalr, together with other Members and Members, if agreed, to prepare a document that would clearly communicate the will of the entire Parliament, not only to consult, but to make decisions that would be taken by Members and that would be properly followed in future when the mandate to be given to the executive branch of the Authority for the next stages of accession to the North Atlantic Treaty is to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you very much, chairman of the board. I understand, therefore, that the National Assembly does not need to decide now that we can decide on the act, the decision. This proposal for a decision reads: "A consultative referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union shall be held." This proposal for a decision - a consultation referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union - is being held - I shall put to the vote. We're voting. 71 members present, 59 for and 12 for. [[59 members voted in favour.]] [[Against 12 members.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, submitted to the assembly by the Committee on Foreign Policy and received together with the report on the bench. Does he want a word, Mr. President? [[No, no, ……]] He wants to speak to the Prime Minister? I give the floor to the Group of Members on the motion for a decree. My friend Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u84	I don't know why he's not here yet, but an amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u85	It's multiplying.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u86	But I'm sorry, too. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I didn't listen to what you said in this introduction. [[...]] The candidates for this referendum propose to replace Section 7 with heading 14 in the third section, which means that the opening of the referenda would start with 14. February; which would mean that at this time, for the first time, we could allow citizens who did not have the right to vote in accordance with the already judged material in the Constitutional Court as well as those who did not have the right to vote - that is to say that they would be better prepared in this part to carry out the referendum - and possibly find any other solutions that might convince those who now doubt that they are honest or have any reservations about supporting this consultative referendum. And of course, all those invited who will not be able to do so are invited to communicate their proposals in some way so that we can talk further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u87	Comrade Anderlich, this is an amendment to the motion for a decree. This is an amendment to the third section, in the third section the number 7 is replaced by the number 14. Two colleagues asked for the floor, colleague Kacin and colleague Školč. Would you like a word, Comrade Kacin? [[No, no, ……]] Colleague School. Not at all. Then I understand that we can conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. So we have an amendment that's just multiplying. Do you have to wait until you get the pretzels, or can I just read the text? I'll wait until it reproduces, so there's no misunderstanding. Did you give it all away? Do you have everyone in front of you? We are therefore in the debate on the only amendment tabled, signed by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anderlic. I'm putting him up for debate. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on that amendment. We're voting. 71 in attendance, 52 in and 15 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Thus, we can now move on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union as a whole. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the motion for a ruling. 73 present, 60 for and 12 for. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The National Assembly is moving on to the 18th B.C. OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE DESCRIPTION OF THE CONSULTATION REFERENCE ON THE INSTRUMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA IN THE ORGANISATION OF THE NORTHERN ATLANTIC TREATY. The proposal for a consultative referendum was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Anderlic. Would you like a word, Mr. Proposer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u88	Given that the initiative is exactly the same, there is no need for further reasoning and I propose to Members and Members that they adopt a proposal for a decision to call for an advisory referendum and, of course, a proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u89	Mr. Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, would you like to report? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 47th emergency meeting, held on 29 January 2003, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. Mr Anderlič, on behalf of the applicants, explained in the introductory paragraphs the proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, which had been tabled in the procedure by a group of Members. He stressed that the group of Members had taken the initiative because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had announced that the Republic of Slovenia must have the position of citizens and citizens expressed in the referendum until 26 March 2003 until the Slovenian membership in relation to NATO. He proposed that the call for an advisory referendum be signed as the date of the referendum on 23 March 2003. The Chairman of the Committee informed the members of the Committee in the introduction that the Committee would first discuss and decide on the proposal for a referendum if the proposal received support, the Committee would also continue its discussion on the draft decision and thus draft the text of the draft decision to be proposed to the national assembly for adoption. The members of the Committee were informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which concluded in its opinion that the proposal was submitted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the proposal clearly raised the question to be the subject of the referendum and that the proposal was justified. The referendum question concerns a matter which is of wider importance for the Republic of Slovenia and which has not yet been decided by the National Assembly, which also fulfils the requirements of Articles 26 and 28 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. At the same time, the legislative and legal service added that it shows that in relation to the designation of this advisory referendum where the word “entering the organisation” is used, it also examines the fact that the Republic of Slovenia accedes to the North Atlantic Treaty and whether, in this case, it is necessary to act in the same way as the referendum on accession to the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, briefly presented the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for an invitation to tender for the referendum. He explained that the Member States of the Union then expect the Republic of Slovenia to hold a referendum which the Union does not require until the signing of the accession protocols scheduled for 26 March 2003. In this regard, he explained that the postponement of the implementation of the referendum to a time after the signing of the accessions to the Protocols could slow the ratification process in the Member States of the NATO Union, which would consequently affect the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Member States and also invited countries. However, it could even mean that the parliaments of the Member States would vote only on the 6 accession protocols, without Slovenia. The members of the committee opposed to the call for an advisory referendum supported the process of Slovenian integration into the NATO Federation, but pointed to certain existing referendum arrangements whereby the referendum was adopted if it was voted on by the majority of voters who voted. In doing so, they stressed in particular the shortcomings of the said regime that invalid ballots should be considered as votes against. Therefore, as they said, they submitted a proposal to the National Assembly for the initiation of a procedure to supplement Article 124 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to remedy that deficiency. They also pointed out that the proposal to call for an advisory referendum allowed for a legislative referendum on the same issue. They advocated that the project of Slovenian integration into the NATO Union and therefore the implementation of the referendum would be a national project. They further asked what would be the international impact of a possible close referendum outcome, although positive. Other members mentioned that the possible positive result achieved under the terms of the current referendum regime would have been an extremely positive outcome, which would have provided an additional argument in the Member States of the Union that the Republic of Slovenia had consciously decided to enter the union. At the same time, they stressed that it is important that people at the referendum express their views on Slovenian membership in the NATO Federation as soon as possible. With regard to the international consequences of the close referendum outcome, Minister Rupel felt that it was difficult to predict how MEPs in the parliaments of the NATO member states would decide when voting on the ratifications of the accession protocols. He stressed that the outcome of the referendum could only be positive or negative, with the hope that the signal sent by Slovenia to members of the NATO Federation would be as clear as possible. He further stressed that it is important for the Slovenian public to clarify that the issues of Slovenian membership in the NATO Union are a strategic decision and that Slovenian policy is a unified opinion on this issue. In this regard, he considered that it would therefore be between Slovenian policies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u91	Mr. Chairman of the Committee [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u92	there was a need to achieve as much consensus and unity as possible. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u93	Mr. Chairman of the Committee, time is up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u94	I'm not going to read the proposed conclusions because you can read them yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u95	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Ruple. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u96	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. At the NATO Summit in Prague last November, Slovenia accepted an invitation from the Member States to join the North Atlantic Treaty organisation. With this action, if I may say so, one of Slovenia's strategic foreign policy objectives was partly achieved, namely membership in the Atlantic Alliance, with which Slovenia will ensure a significantly higher level of security. Immediately after the summit in Prague, the Secretary-General of the Union formally invited Slovenia to start accession talks to join the Alliance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted the invitation and began accession talks until mid-March 2003. After the accession talks, foreign ministers will send letters to the Secretary-General of NATO, in which they will commit themselves, on behalf of their countries, to respect the obligations arising from their membership in the NATO Union. The members of the Union will then sign accession protocols on 26 March 2003, which will be submitted immediately thereafter to ratification procedures in the Member States. Mr. President, the National Assembly! As early as 1994, this high house, in its resolution on the origins of the national security concept, expressed Slovenia's life interest in establishing an effective collective security system in its neighbourhood, Europe and the world. In doing so, the inclusion in NATO is an important objective. This resolution also provided that Slovenia's membership in NATO could be decided at the referendum. In the government, Mr President, we have had quite a few discussions on the possibility of reaching national consensus on referendums or their implementation, as we have agreed on the objective. This is what they call integration into the European Union and NATO. I would like to point out here that this is not a project or a government or a coalition project, but a project of the Slovenian state. The referendum to be called in accordance with what has been submitted is supposed to be of a consultative nature, as it is said, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will respect the expressed will of citizens and citizens in any event. The Union of NATO has never requested or expected Slovenia to implement the referendum. Nevertheless, we have decided to support the idea of a referendum to demonstrate our fundamental orientation in this way, namely attracting the widest possible range of Slovenian citizens and citizens to take strategic decisions on the future of Slovenia. Our country's decision to verify its readiness to engage and cooperate more closely with other democratic countries of the Euro-Atlantic area through the determination of the will of its citizens and citizens through the referendum has set expectations for their implementation both in the Member States and in the Union. If the referendum were to take place after the signing of the Slovenian accession protocol, there could be doubts within the members of the Atlantic Alliance as to the determination of the Republic of Slovenia to accept the conditions of membership. The unclear situation regarding the Slovenian decision on membership in the Union could therefore greatly slow the ratification process and consequently have a negative impact on the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the members of the Alliance, as well as with the other invited countries. Without a referendum decision, it could happen that Parliaments of some members would not vote on the Slovenian accession protocol, while these parliaments would simultaneously decide on the accession protocols of other invited countries. There is also a very serious possibility that in the parliaments of some Members, at least one Member State, would certainly not be willing to vote on the Slovenian accession protocol afterwards. Thus, any delay in the day of the referendum within the time after the signing of the accession protocols could mean that Slovenia would lose the historic opportunity it had received with an invitation to NATO. In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that delaying referendum decision-making would therefore be irresponsible and would also threaten one of the key strategic foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. From this place, of course, I would like to ask that we begin to discuss as soon as possible how we will inform citizens and citizens of all aspects of our integration into the European Union and in this case NATO, and it seems important to me that this meeting on the date of the referendum and on all the matters related to it is very carefully considered and that all the most serious arguments are put on the table or spoken in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Foreign Minister. We will now hear the views of all the Members. First of all, the LDS Group will have the floor. Comrade Kacin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u98	Mr. President! Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! Slovenia's entry into NATO is also an important and equivalent goal of Slovenian foreign policy, as well as of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, and that is why we decided to address the people at the referendum at the same time. There is no difference, even in the order of treatment of individual points at today's session, what is before and after this. The European Union is alphabetically ahead of N-Nato, and that is why it is here on the order before that. But for us, these two are extremely important and equally strategic goals that complement each other. That is why, of course, we want everyone, especially the government, when informing the public about these two projects, to find the same degree of conviction in their performances and in promoting the benefits and consequences of entry. We want to send unique messages, and we want to see all the parliamentary groups advocating entry into NATO acting in a uniform and understandable way and in favour of a positive outcome. Even if the referendum is held, people will decide on it and we will respect the decision. In order to make a decision, we must stop arguing about the form of a referendum, because it is clear from today that the referendum will be consultative. The consequences will be historical, decisive and binding for us, as well as for the NATO Union. If we don't know how long we're talking about what we're going to do here, they're going to understand the decision in Brussels and they're going to act accordingly. So at the end of the day, I would like to say two things that seem extremely important to me. The European Union and the Union then walk in Europe hand in hand. It may seem to someone that the European Union and the United States of America do not understand well because they are competing in the economic field, but when it comes to security issues in Europe, they walk hand in hand and complement each other. I would therefore like to stress the fact that the European Union is using the only available tool for its peace operations, and these are the commands and structures of the NATO Union. At the previous item in the agenda, I underlined this and I am obliged to say it now. Admiral Reiner Feist of the Federal Republic of Germany, acting as Deputy Commander of NATO in Europe, will lead an operation by the European Union in Macedonia from NATO headquarters in Europe. NATO's link with its command structure, with its staff, is the only available tool the European Union uses to carry out a peacekeeping operation in Macedonia. These are the facts. Therefore, co-exposures as to whether it is appropriate for the referendum to be at the same time or not are unnecessary and, above all, are harmful. That's why I'm done with the last thought. We cannot and must no longer talk about form, because this debate actually devalues the content. We need to discuss the content, advantages, benefits and results of our membership in the NATO Union. First for us and then for the immediate neighbours and for the wider security environment, particularly in the southeast of Europe. Therefore, the Liberal Democracy will do its utmost to succeed this referendum, and therefore the Liberal Democracy also calls on all those who are not yet on this shore and still pretend to be unable to support the referendum because they do not like the form to come to this shore and begin to speak with one and all understandable, very convincing voice. It would be good if we could convince people that it is not only enough to win, but that it is good to win with a large, convincing majority, because it is good for the future of Slovenia and the next generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Mr Pohorec has the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister and colleagues and colleagues! Our client's documents state that such important matters as plebiscite in 1990 and integration into the European Union and the NATO Union are to be identified in the referendum. Just as important issues such as these are, we believe that the decision of our citizens at the referendum would be at all subject to our citizens' decision. Everything else should be left to us who are chosen by men to decide here in this hall. Despite all the attempts of political parties, parliamentary groups, governments, legal experts, we have not found a real, different solution at this time than to hold a consultative referendum. Now let's write it down, because that's how we promised people we would. Time is really chasing us now, and that's why we have a decision - one we've already made, one, I'm sure we'll be in that time, after the debate is over. March needs to report this decision to the NATO Alliance, they expect this decision, anyway, of course, if it is negative, it is also fatal for us, not just for us who live and work today, we also create a policy for future generations. We are confident that this referendum will also succeed. We believe that Slovenians and Slovenians, citizens and citizens, in such a fateful decision, were able to come mass to the polls and, with a large majority, to make an absolute majority of their decisions about, and that they will do the same now. Let us not fear our own people, approach them, tell them simply, simply, what the NATO Union means to us, to our defence system, to our security, to our young generation, to what will not yet be decided, and also to future generations. Those who survived the last war or were children of this war, hunger, misery, persecution, fear, evictions, and so forth, will know this in their own way better. We would like to believe that political parties, which, while clearly state that they are to enter NATO, but that they are not to act positively for such a form of referendum, will be able to convince people that this path is useful for the Slovenian people. If, in this Chamber and often elsewhere, we swear to respect the will of the majority, then I expect that we will also respect the will of today's decision here to call for such a referendum as has been decided by most Members and Members, and that we will not act differently than the will in this Chamber by the majority. And what will we, Members and Members, do when we leave this Hall? I think we have a great duty and a great task to approach our people, our constituents, to present them with arguments that say "yes" and those that are "against", as they certainly are, but, more of which are the ones that weigh in the direction that people should choose. This is what we have done when we have run in the last elections to win votes for ourselves; now let us act for our own name, for our client and for the majority good when we are present at the debates, and let us be present. Our client, as well as personally I will do everything in my power to work towards the referendum succeeding - and I actually started yesterday in the New City. And when I first spoke the word NATO, I got a echo from the hall, saying, "But here we are against." But after ten, fifteen minutes - since you will get the word, colleague Vizjak - when I have explained the matter, I have received the answer from the same person: "If you will know how to tell our people what is really positive and good for the Slovenes, we will also know how to make that decision." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Janša has the floor to present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u102	Mr President, thank you again for the floor. With regard to Nate in the Social Democratic Party, we also believe that it is right for people to make such important decisions at the referendum. Once again, we think it is right that people make such important decisions at the referendum! In this regard, we reject the attempt by the ruling coalition to consult citizens in some way, at a stage when the foreign minister has to respond exclusively to an invitation sent to Slovenia at her own request. What the ruling coalition is doing in this proposal for a consultative referendum is an adventure project. The project, which has already been missed since, at this point in the Chamber, is probably even broader, there is no man who could judge whether March 23rd is any suitable date for Slovenia's membership in NATO or not. It may be less or less inappropriate, but it is certainly impossible to say that this is a good time. The ruling coalition here is deaf to warnings coming from all sides, and it did not want to hear the opinion of the President of the country, who is similar here. By the way, at that time, we received a message from the Office of the President of the State that he was ready to come to the National Assembly at any time and give his opinion on the matter. I'm afraid you turned it down. This proposal, which is before us today, contains a danger that is far greater for the ratification process of the Slovenian NATO membership than that perhaps by 26 March when accession protocols are signed, there would be no result of any referendum. The fact is that the current referendum legislation in Slovenia, whose writers were mainly from the United List - and because of me they are really surprised by the words about how this is all wrong and it is necessary to correct that which comes from this party. This legislation allows for two referendums to be held in the same procedure, both ex-ante and ex-post. And in the event that we have, say, a hypothetical 23rd March actually consultative referendum and this is a negative one, then it is clear that we are not making any illusions that the ruling coalition or the government of this referendum would not respect such an outcome, because this question is irrelevant. In the event of a negative result of any referendum, the NATO enlargement round concludes the procedure for Slovenia. So that this question - respect for referendum decisions - in the case of such or other referendum, regardless of its nature, is not raised in the event of a negative outcome. In this case, the government may or may not respect, outside NATO, they will take the negative result as a sign that Slovenia does not want to go to NATO, and that is a fact. This will be accepted and until the next enlargement Slovenia is out of this process, at least until the next enlargement. What is an additional contribution to some irrationality is the fact that in the case of a positive referendum this story is not concluded. In the event of a positive outcome of the consultation referendum, at this stage, unless this error is rectified from the referendum legislation, the whole process allows the call for another referendum before Slovenia formally becomes a member of NATO. And those who are forcing such a decision, at the same time talking about some rationality, act in terms of rationality, of course, totally irrational, because you are opening the door or agreeing to an option that is very real, that this matter is again decided at the referendum when the international treaty is ratified. And anyone who is unaware of this possibility will be aware of it the next day after, say, such a referendum would be obtained with a few percent of the majority. Those who were against Nate and would lose this referendum with a few percent of the majority or minority, a few percent that would run out — clearly not to give up. But we would use the possibilities that exist and are relatively simple and we would have announced the referendum at the time of ratification. Now put yourself in the role of Foreign Minister. I'm very surprised that he doesn't say anything about who should explain abroad that although we did have a referendum, he was positive, otherwise consultative - positive, but that doesn't mean that this was the last referendum and that after all the other members of NATO have already ratified Slovenian membership, we won't, at the time of ratification, have a re-referendum. And maybe everything they will do in the 25 parliaments will be free of charge, because the Slovenians can decide before they can even become full members at the second referendum in the same process that they do not want to. They may decide, of course, that they want to, but no one knows what will happen then. And set yourselves in the light of those to whom we approach, and not the other way round. Thus, this real weakness, and this real error, will significantly impede the ratification process, rather than just the question of whether we have a referendum on 23 March or 23 April. Let's just say that this would trigger some dissatisfaction if we postpone the decision for one month, but this would not be a disfiguration of this kind so that Slovenia would fall away. However, if Slovenia threatens another referendum under the same procedure, this can happen, and this is simply so that some Slovenia will not be placed on the agenda. They will say: you decide first, and then we will vote. First, you make the final decision! It is very likely that this will be done. In normal countries, that's just how it works. The formal proposal tabled by the Slovenian Coalition in the procedure eliminates all the threats I have just discussed. It eliminates all these threats and allows it to be decided once; it allows it not to be defined today when the referendum will be, because probably, as it has already said, nobody knows what the best term is or we know that the best is no longer - they are less and worse. And this proposal allows the decision-making process to eliminate all errors that threaten the outcome and are also otherwise anomalies in this procedure. We note that something has happened in Slovenia in the last month at different levels, in decision-making structures, and what has changed the decision-making issue in the European Union and NATO from a national to a political project. With these changes, we also receive immense amounts of governmental arrogance and, in our view, there are two reasons why this has happened. The first reason why someone consciously reduced national to political projects, especially when it comes to NATO, is that forces against NATO, which are intimately against NATO, are stronger in the ruling coalition than they appear on the surface. That there will be no misunderstandings, the definition for or against Nate is legitimate. Everyone can be one way or another; what bothers is that someone is saying it may be for NATO, and then they say it's like Mr Aurelio Juri in yesterday's interview in Del, but if we were to vote in secret about it, 20.30 members of this national assembly would vote against Nate, they don't hope publicly, and they would secretly. I ask Mr Yuri to say that 20, 30 Members are those who do not hope to vote publicly against Nat and are personally against Nat. I think it will be very good for political hygiene in this country, that Mr Yuri does this or apologizes to the entire national assembly, because otherwise we are all suspects. The second reason why this project has narrowed down to a political project is because of developments in the largest government party. As is now the case, it is clear that the whole country is that the key projects of this country are currently the hostage of the state in the largest government side. And there's a lot that's been going on this past month as a result of the fact that we have a client who doesn't know who's boss, who doesn't know who's boss, who's boss, and where there's a difference in content between those who are for NATO and those who are against Nate. And those who are against Nate know, those who are against Nate in the government coalition know that they will achieve their goal, saying, not joining Slovenia into NATO is easier if it is only a political project, not a national one. Those who are against Nate in the government coalition know that a project with broad support needs to be narrowed down to something narrow, demanding and then more likely to fail, but the people who vote against it will be responsible. And those, as said Comrade Yuri, who publicly say that they are for or are silent, but intimately against Nat, will probably celebrate in some closed halls. Otherwise, if it hadn't been for Sunday, we wouldn't have faced such unreasonable moves as we have seen in recent times. For example, at the beginning of January at 6 p.m., we received a notice that four parties to the ruling coalition will submit a proposal for consultative referendums in the procedure and that all other parties in the National Assembly will have a time next day to two to join. But if they don't, they'll file it themselves. There's a letter you sent that says, "You have until 2:00 tomorrow to join it, or we'll do it ourselves." The one who wrote this knew that it was not possible to convene a parliamentary group within a few hours, let alone other bodies in the parties, and to identify themselves. Then this proposal, which was to be joined in a few hours, stood for a week without anything happening without any procedure being initiated - not for a week, this proposal stood for ten days. Anyone who wants to make a deal would probably not have given a six-hour deadline for a proposal that was in the drawers for ten days anyway. The evidence, classic, plastic, illustrative evidence that this project, with advisory referendums at all the anomalies accompanying such decision-making, is in favour of those who are against Nat, that two parties in Parliament, who openly spoke against Nat, the Slovenian National Party and the Youth Party, were very happy to jump on this wagon. The two parties who are - I will say - this is legitimate and this position is more respectable than those who say that they are "for" and in fact they are not - against Nat, they welcomed the narrowing of this project from the national to the political and entered this vehicle because they know that they can make it significantly easier with such a project in their goal - and this is to prevent Slovenia's membership in NATO. If anyone needs any very plastic evidence of where this project is headed, he can find it in the conduct of these two parties, who have gladly joined the ruling coalition when it called the consultative referendums. Because otherwise it would be normal, even from the point of view of the current requirements, for those who are against Nate to request a referendum where it is actually decided. In this particular case, where it is clear that if the consultation referendum will have a negative result, the matter is over for us, and these interests coincide, and therefore such a joy in rushing on this train. Mr Kacin has called on everyone today to stop talking about the procedure and to start talking about the content; hence, something about content. Here we have a ruling coalition that is now supposed to go into a project to run some activity to convince people that NATO is a good solution, and at the same time NATO's biggest opponents are in this coalition. I am very interested in how you will impress people who so far have been very keenly opposed to Slovenia's membership in NATO. I will be very happy myself, and I will trust Mr Potch that she will be for NATO when she convinces her colleague to be with her fellow Member, Silva Crnugelj, that she will be for NATO. On Sunday she made a public appearance, her speech was published in the national media and she said - a festive speech at the celebration was a member of the national assembly of Silva Črnugelj, a Member of the United List - said: will we allow government bureaucrats, from her own party, to decide for us, to add - who is shelling us with half-truths, and she called all of us for a thorough consideration whether we want to go to NATO, which is not only a military but also a political organisation, and in this way we renounce the work of our hard-earned suicide. Our future is the European Union, said Silva Montenegro, and we can talk to Nate sometime later. Will this Member of the United Nations go around now after Slovenia and persuade people to vote in the consultation referendum for NATO, as said by the party that is supposed to formally be in favour. Comrade Yuri of the same party, our fellow Member, surprised us yesterday in the daily newspaper with a statement and a proposal to turn NATO into civil protection, which means, of course, that I will be for NATO if it becomes civil protection. I mean, with this approach, you're actually exhilarating voters to vote for NATO in the referendum, and you're going to have a great success! Here we have a repeatedly published statement by the Vice-President from the United List, Mrs Brede Pečan, who, if I take a long time, opposes Nate in the sentence: personally strongly oppose the inclusion of Slovenia in NATO. And Vice President, the second man in the second largest government party is going to excite people for NATO with such an approach! We have this second largest government party, which consists of the cores of the most militant antinatov groups, which draw on the Ljubljana walls the sign of NATO and the hooky crosses along and publicly declare themselves to be members of the United Nations Youth Forum and that NATO is an American terrorist organisation. And now you're running a campaign for NATO! Then we have the next government party, the Slovenian People's Party, in which the other person under formal powers, the chief secretary of this party, Mr Vehovar, in various statements and interviews, which I happen to have before me is this statement, which I will now quote, was published in the Youth of September last year. [[...]] And another man of this third government party says, "I am against Nate, and therefore there are several reasons. The costs of joining NATO are higher than the Slovenian needs for military defence. Then it is the most expensive military union in the world, and membership is all the more than financially beneficial. Therefore, membership in the organisation without a clearly planned application for Slovenia is of no importance and is an unnecessary cost.” With these words, the Slovenian People's Party will urge voters to go to NATO! Some may say that these are individual views, but it is the individual’s viewpoint that convinces or does not convince others. They're probably not resolutions that someone takes and nobody reads. And of course, then we have the largest government party, where I have gathered here about fifteen pages of statements, important people in this party, who have so far expressed themselves very clearly and publicly and resolutely against Nate. A summary of these statements was published in a newspaper or magazine that is very close to the Liberal Democracy, and no one has denied it - it is said to be true. Here is a statement by Ambassador Majda Shirca, who said: I am for security, not for imperialist danger, which is NATO. Comrade Shirchev will now persuade his party’s voters to join the imperialist threat, or Nate! We'll see how they vote! The President of the Liberal Academy, Mr Darko Stryn, who is performing a lot in public, says: I actively care whether our country goes to NATO or not. This will also impress his constituents very much. Our fellow Member and even a longtime diplomat, Mr Zląb, say that he does not have special affection for NATO. There would be no real benefit for Slovenia if we went to NATO. Then, by definition, there is no organism that impresses anyone, and I am more inclined against them personally. Dr. Bogomir Kovac, LDS Presidential candidate in previous presidential elections, made so many statements against Nat that it would be difficult to choose the best. Then this is Mr Anton Anderlich, who was very brief in his response. He said, "I'm a nasceptic." My colleague Anderlič, the leader of the largest parliamentary group in this House, the candidate and the possible president of this party, is a natosceptic. And the natoskeptik here convinces those who we are for NATO that what he offers as a way of deciding that is best and that this is the closest positive result for NATO. Now there's some logical nonsense. Usually, those who are skeptics do not offer solutions that best lead to a goal. And so on and so on - I don't know what kind of place he has now, but it was once one of the main people in Liberal Democracy - Mr Gregor Golobič, who has declared himself an anti-Americanist several times in his statements. And he will now, by spreading propaganda against the key Member State of NATO - he has not declared himself against Bush or against the administration, he has declared himself an anti-Americanist, it is said, against the nation. By going public with the key Member State of NATO, he will, of course, be advertising for NATO; something else, I would say. But nobody's stupid enough to believe that. And so on and so forth. Then there are some other people who are in the government coalition, especially in the government and there, who are, of course, in my firm belief in NATO and who are otherwise working in this direction, working hard. There is also a large part of the electoral body of government parties, which is for NATO, who honestly thinks so, but, according to public surveys, especially the results of parallel elections, the first and second rounds of presidential elections, the public opinion is very divided. On December 1st, when the second round of presidential elections was held, the parallel results of the elections at these "exit pools" in which 12,000 people participated showed the results 50:50, 50% for, 50% against. And there were no such dilemmas and dilemmas that occurred in recent weeks when those who were actually against Nat won the government coalition. If this situation continues if, given that it has now become a political project, a campaign for NATO leaders, and if the natosceptians will also make formal decisions on how to decide on these things, then I must say that I do not see much possibility for this result to be positive. There have also been several conversations in recent days that have led nowhere more or less, even though it has often seemed as if a consensus would be reached. However, whenever we were close, someone who was trying to reach an agreement on how to resolve the decision-making process in the European Union and NATO tried to include anything else that had nothing to do with it. In this latter case, for example, we have been raped, or some of us have been raped by means of an agreement on how we will implement this decision-making process in the form of a national consensus, including all that you have entered into in the coalition treaty amending the Constitution, and you have now not even aligned it in your own coalition. It means total deletion or the virtually complete deletion of the option of referendum decision-making. Those who were forcing this agreement had only one goal: to prevent any agreement. Since there is no real basis to agree on how to implement the decision-making process for Slovenia's entry into the European Union and NATO, it will also include part of the coalition contract in its own coalition. It has nothing to do with it. I must say, we were obviously the ones who negotiated here, the hostages of this situation within the largest government party. If this decision on the call for an advisory referendum is adopted and the situation, the chaotic situation, in relation to the referendum legislation in this regard will not change and this decision will later be repealed, this will be the net victory of those who are against Nat in general. At this stage they won within the ruling coalition, then they will win in general. The proposal before us is flawed in form, in content and in time, and this will show up in the future, but we are not looking forward to it, because, as has already been said, we are all hostages of this situation and will also pay the consequences of this to those who are not at fault. However, it is quite clear that by such a decision, the ruling coalition assumes its full responsibility for the possible negative outcome of this referendum. And, we'll do everything we can to make that responsibility, if it comes to that, we'll recover.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u104	Respectable present. I know it's right that we have different views, and I know it's wrong for someone to accuse someone who's opposed to Nate. It is even worse if a person puts himself in the role of a judge and tries only on the basis of his limited criteria to anticipate things and accuse individuals. There's been a lot of talk about Nate in public lately. The government, its customers with its satellites, the coalition of Slovenia have shown us or have portrayed Nate as some kind of humanitarian organization, even though it is not possible to survive in Slovenia if she does not enter NATO. To NATO, which is a typical military organisation and you have expanded the debate through the National Assembly, through the Committee on Economics, what will all of this bring to the economy? I think there is a lack in the Slovenian political space and, of course, in the wider space, which is more important, the answer to what NATO is. When you speak to government representatives and the satellites of government parties, you always point out that NATO is not a military organisation. But the fact is that NATO is only one of the United States military expositions, the host of which is only in Europe. Others around the world are modern organizations with similar statuses, only with other names, also made up of abbreviations, and in these abbreviations are letters that usually mark either the continent or the province. Then there's the rest of the Cold War when they thought they'd convince their opponents with threats. Now that the Cold War has passed and the financial resources have run out, they invite those poor countries that also behave in the negotiations to participate. And one of these miserable countries is, unfortunately, Slovenia, which has been pushed into this misery by the Slovenian government and by satellites. Then the phrase reads the sum of the economic and political interests of the United States of America. From the Slovenian side, however, NATO's accession is a collection of personal interests of individual politicians; those politicians; who unfortunately have the power to shape the media and, unfortunately, indirectly also the public. In the Slovenian National Party, as in the previous paragraph, we are pleased to meet with this issue at the referendum. Satisfied that the answer to this question or dilemma will be given by people to end this farce, where we do not find a normal answer to what NATO is. We estimate that the latest developments regarding Nate, whose propaganda is already under way, will exceed any healthy border of communication - whether it be from Minister Grizold, where he is literally threatening a certain range of people, what will happen if we do not go to NATO, whether it be to the Secretary-General or to read the notes, what was going on in the first negotiation after the invitation, which clearly shows what kind of negotiating partner Slovenia is. Then he asks, Slovenia answers, then asks Slovenia. Slovenia has not asked a single question. We don't even care where we're going. You're just happy to be able to occupy those cities in the 600 commissions and subcommissions and hope you'll come along. But for the price of Slovenia, people, nothing more. All we want in the Slovenian National Party is for information to take place properly; for the practice of Natophon, which, in spite of its wide and wide promise that they have all the answers, they do not know one cost, so that actions that are misleading and false no longer take place. However, since the Slovenian government cannot be trusted in this regard because it has started and will continue to do so, all we want is to get to the referendum as soon as possible. Not just because of the cost, but because the amount of shaving crazy people in this country will be as low as possible. And, of course, it will be as small as possible when we reduce this time. That is why, in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the amendment proposed, I think that the Liberal Democracy and some other government parties, and we will support the referendum resolution itself and hope that, at the end of the decision, it will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will be presented by mag. Janez Kramberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The position of the Slovenian People's Party on this issue is in fact the same as I presented it earlier as the position on the call for a referendum for the European Union. All I want to say is that our party has already adopted a resolution on the entry into the European Union and NATO in 1996. However, since colleague Janez Janš also mentioned a party and individuals from the Slovenian People's Party here, I would like to say that we do not take this as a tragedy in our client if someone expresses their opinion, which can be different from the majority opinion of the party. Of course, this is his opinion, and we also take it as some kind of internal democracy. You're probably going to deny it too, where inside democracy can be and where it can't be. My colleague Janš will probably recall those times when we adopted a decree in this very hall, which was slightly different at the time, or what was the name of that document on which Slovenia and Slovenia, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, were then decided on the plebiscite. [[The marriage was this.]] . And even then, he will remember what it was like, what the political options were at the time, and they are, like others now, always inventing new forms, what else they should be, and so much so that we were already on the subject of exactly how many numbers they should come to the referendum and who should come to the referendum. Almost, if I paraphrased a little bit, we talked about things like that. And today it's similar. I also have to say that if we look at who's up for it and who's up against it and how people have changed their minds at some point in time, in all the parties we can find people who once bitterly represented and swore against the star, the sickle and the hammer, today the same people have different opinions. That's why I don't see any reason for people to kind of expose these people to pull them into the light, but let's leave, maybe they've changed their minds, now they're thinking differently and we're going over it. I see no reason for this referendum to fail. People will decide, as is right, and it is our duty to respect the views of these people. I can't imagine how we're going to tell people what the difference is between the consultation referendum, the legislative referendum, the subsequent legislative referendum, the change in the constitution for this issue. Even legal services, if you remember correctly, this month, when we met in the framework of Euro-Atlantic integration, legal services are also uneven. And how will we tell the voters what the difference is that we have now adopted a consultative referendum, but we should change the constitution or adopt a legislative referendum. We must go deeper to convince people that they will go to the referendum and decide on both integrations, both for the Euro-Atlantic and for the European Union. That's the point. It's not like we're telling them who it was for, because if we decided against the advisory referendum, it would be better. You know, I don't think that's right. The Slovenian People's Party, the Group of Members will also support this proposal for a decree, as supported by the proposal for a decree for the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u108	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nicely greeted! Slovenia is ahead of the crucial moment of the decision. We have already said something about the decision to join the European Union and now about Nate. In both cases, it is a matter of one piece of our sovereignty. This, of course, means responsible action. And responsible action must also be taken by all those who lead to a decision. This is the starting point for thinking and for our opinion. All the efforts of the New Slovenia Group, which we have somehow mediated together within the framework of the Slovenian Coalition, have been an effort to remove any doubts about how voters will vote and their will will be respected. That's what we want. Everything relating to the clarification of the referendums must be adopted earlier. The technique itself, as I said at the NATO point, must be clear, so that their will is realized. Mr Janša said what are the possible ways of such our legislation, which is not the most definitive, as far as this is concerned, leaving uncertainty. Before we go to the campaign and call for a referendum, this has to be clear to the voters. They want us to clear this up in the National Assembly, that the professional services, the constitutional judges and others who learn to prepare legislation so that their will will be realized - that their will will be respected. What helps us now to swear that this time it will be respected if it has been broken so many times. Even those signatures that were signed in 1997 are under individual parties and are already in breach at the time of the referendum. How can people believe that this is a state project, that you have proposed a decision to stick to it this time, if that same day or a day later individual Members or responsible people in the party say something different? You explain with some of the rules of democracy and that each person has the right to express his or her opinion. Excuse me, if the vice-president of the party, the secretary-general or the president of the party or the leader of the parliamentary group says something like this, it has this very different weight from someone, a citizen, a member, I don't know which party, in the Upper Ščavnica or elsewhere, who says he's against Nate. Not now, or maybe it's in Soržica, where I was born, but I don't think my natives will mind that it's any different weight. This is important. Not just in terms of persuasion, conviction, credibility. Last time we passed an asbestos law or proposal, a debate on the complexity of the enforcement of this law. The proposal for a decision by the ruling parties is such as to provide funds for the enforcement of this law. The law which has been adopted, which needs to be enforced, is not being implemented, and it is now necessary, by means of a re-decision, to rule on the law. That's the principle. And that's what's gonna happen. You swear in advance, but this spell does not mean anything because previous acts show something else: that such spells have been broken. Therefore, the procedure must be such, I have stated, that the procedure must be such as to remove any doubt. And what were our suggestions? Very modest and clear and concise. To be decided by a majority of votes and that an invalid ballot shall not be considered as a vote against. That the same thing is decided only once. It also becomes binding because people will decide once and then it will have to be done. If so, then there is no conflict. In this case, as you have now adopted the procedure, the government you have, in particular the Foreign Minister, will be in distress when they ask him, now that decision is final. And he's going to say, you know, the possibility is, whatever happens, people will decide again. In America, the Senate will decide by a two-thirds majority whether we should be admitted to the group that we have asked for, and we will act that way. Not that I don't know how to glorify these partners, but that's not worthy. In the end, it can happen that this opportunity will swim on the water. To be found in a group of organisations whose basic charter is based on three assumptions; to defend and protect democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. This is a military alliance, but it is also a different relationship, which basically has this principle. It then changes, but this foundation remains and becomes even more current in the light of the current situation. This is a unique opportunity for us, it may never happen again. Therefore, it is also appropriate to prepare. The fact that we are in time trouble, as you say, and in time distress, we are left with only this, is a net result of the actions of the ruling coalition, in particular the largest government party, when it subordinated the decision on the subjectivity of Slovenia or the transfer of the work of sovereignty to its own ambitions. And we have come into such a tribulation that it is still possible to carry out it on a regular basis. I find it difficult to understand the representatives of young people, their decisions against Nate, depending on the positions that this relationship represents, what it advocates in terms of its charter and what connection or how security is imagined - or whether security alone with what budgets or perhaps some other connection. Here I find it difficult to understand how the young generation then imagines all of this - or the recruitment continues, which also opposes it, comes into an antagonistic position. Our voters or citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will decide. So they expect a technically indisputable solution from us, that's all. And whatever the shadow of doubt is, of course, they will not accept it and all the campaign will be hampered. It will also be hampered by the reasons stated earlier by his fellow Member, Mr Janša. But we're gonna have to work. And these are the key reasons why we will oppose such a proposal in the Group of Members. We stand up and we decide, it's also in our charter, to enter NATO. And we will also seek to explain to the citizens the usefulness of this link and the usefulness for Slovenia in the economic, military, political sense. Well, think again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Members of the Young Slovenia Party have already submitted a proposal to the National Assembly a year ago on the call for an advisory referendum with which we wanted to enable citizens and citizens to identify this important issue before the summit of NATO in Prague. Unfortunately, the proposal for a referendum between parliamentary parties did not receive sufficient support at the time. At that time, you opposed this call for a referendum, because it did not seem realistic for you to carry out the referendum so quickly, within two months, and in particular to decide on the entry into NATO before the invitation in Prague. After the invitation, however, you wanted to carry out the referendum even faster and at the same time found that the most convenient time to hold the referendum before the invitation was unfortunately delayed. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we also took the view, after the top session of NATO in Prague, that a referendum should be announced as soon as possible, and certainly before 26 March, when we need to give a clear signal about NATO connection, whether we want to enter into a relationship or not. Therefore, in the framework of the work of Euro-Atlantic coordination, the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party supported the implementation of the proposed, first of all, legislative approval referendum, as well as most of the other proposed forms proposed by both opposition and government parties. We took the view that it was necessary to hold a referendum on the integration of NATO and the European Union separately, but somehow we wanted the referendum to be signed in good time and in part, taking into account rationality, to support the implementation of the two on the same day. After two weeks of coordination between the parliamentary parties, when some parties said that the referendum on joining NATO at that time was unnecessary, we realized that the possibility of holding the referendum was moving further and further away. We therefore supported the proposal of government parties following the call for an advisory referendum. In this way, the Youth Slovenia parliamentary group is proposing in another way and will, of course, vote in favour of the call for an advisory referendum on Slovenia's involvement in NATO. We are pleased that the referendum will be held one year and one day after the submission of our first proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not our pleasure, however, that at a time when we are hunting for the deadline of the referendum, instead of presenting arguments for and against Slovenia's entry into the NATO Union, the parties who support the entry into NATO are infertilely arguing about the way the referendum is carried out, and also in this way preventing people from creating a clear picture of this issue. For Members of the Young Slovenia Party, it is of course that decisions taken in the referendum, which is the most democratic way of deciding citizens and citizens, oblige Members. That is why we do not see any need to sign a specific declaration that intends to oblige members of government parties to respect the referendum decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Discussions regarding the date of the referendum, the way in which it is decided, the appropriate organisation of the debate and public information are, in fact, far greater than the referendum on the inclusion in the European Union of a referendum on the inclusion in NATO. I think that this needs to be said and that this is the only thing that is true, both in terms of differences and different views between people and within customers. I think it is right to say this, especially for the reason that, at least as regards the combined list of Social Democrats, the debate on the date of the referendum is directly linked to the definitions of the government. At the first interviews we had in North Atlantic coordination, we asked for a clear position of the government, such as the EU admission calendars and the timetables and commitments we have in this regard, to be adopted in NATO. We have undeniably found that, with regard to integration into the European Union, we could, under the applicable law on referendum and human initiative after the end of April, when an agreement is signed in Athens, submit a proposal for a law on ratification of this agreement on full membership - this is not an official title, but the content is such - to the legislative referendum. And since this could have happened by the end of April, in early May, we wanted to know what and when the Republic of Slovenia should have decided, at the referendum or citizens and citizens, about NATO, not to re-emerg on two dates in a very short time and in a short sequence. We have received the same response as the Foreign Minister here said today in his debate and, as the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee said in his report, he does not require NATO to do so because he knows that he cannot do so, he expects our decision until the accession protocols are signed, which are scheduled for 26 March 2003. In this regard, it was made clear that the postponement of the referendum after that could result in a slow ratification procedure in the Member States of the NATO Union, which would consequently affect the relations of the Republic of Slovenia with the Member States and invited countries, but could even mean that the parliaments of the Member States would vote on only six accession protocols, without Slovenia. I would like that to be the conclusion that we all have in mind and that we come from this date. If the Foreign Minister thinks that this date is unclear or that it is still possible to discuss it, because it could be partly understood from his introduction, then I ask him to say so now and very clearly. If any Member considers that a second date can be decided without these consequences and that these consequences are not objectively demonstrated, let him say so. After the referendum, a lot of people will want to be smart and tell you what he knew, and we didn't know or we didn't know. Once again, the date of the referendum for the United List of Social Democrats is linked to foreign policy activities and communications from the Government and the Foreign Minister, because we do not have any other information. The second thing I would like to say about the referendum on NATO is that I am fully repeating the same things we said in the referendum on the European Union regarding how to decide, and I would not like to explain these things again. However, I think it is right, given the discussions that colleagues and fellow Members have had, to say that it would be good to agree and agree on whether or not the nature and consequences of the NATO referendum are questionable in view of the binding content of the consultative referendum. I understand in this part that Mr Janša, Foreign Minister and Mr Janša, is exactly the same - that in this part this matter is not important in view of the obligation at all. In the event that a decision at the referendum was not taken, there is no doubt that the consistency would be different from that of the Slovenian policy. And there is no doubt that there will then be no other option than to make the decisions taken, because the representatives of the members of NATO will tell you, then you do not want to become members, and that is why we will take you off the list of seven whom we will decide to define the extension. And it would be good if we could agree on that one day. As for the referendum after the signing of the protocol, this is really the one waiting for us. It is only, ladies and gentlemen, that this will eventually await us if we do not change the constitution within one year, the 90th Article, which speaks of the referendum - within one year. It is only after this period that such sequences are possible. And I want to tell you that as far as I and our client are concerned, we are happy to talk about these changes. The Law on Referendum and Human Initiative had already laid down in Article 10 that a referendum was not possible on laws adopted to enforce ratified international treaties. The Constitutional Court annulled this provision and said that it was also necessary. I am alone in discussing changes to the Constitution. Just, please, not only on the principle of self-service - when it suits me, the referendum is unnecessary; when it suits me, every debate on the regulation of the referendum is the abolition of democracy in Slovenia. That's how you act. If twice the decision is unnecessary with Nate, and I agree that it is unnecessary, then it is also unnecessary for laws adopted by the National Assembly. And it's probably unnecessary for him to decide first at the previous referendum and then at the subsequent referendum, and then the same law. Then let us have the same principles and decide that even in the referendums of the ratification laws, as well as in other laws, a referendum is once again. That's what I'm for. When we talked about this yesterday, you said that this would end democracy in Slovenia. Let's have, I'd say, the same fan of principles, not just when something is more or less appropriate for us. We are also in favour of a referendum if we are to talk about amending Article 90. Also one that we will have in some way, if possible, formally binding. No one wants to discuss this at all, but also to change the definition of the majority and the like. Just don't say that these are things you wouldn't be able to do with the common will. The proposal to hold a consultation referendum was, at least as far as our party is concerned, adopted under these starting points, that our deadlines should be slowed down and that, at the time of our decision, there was no guarantee for a two-thirds majority needed to amend the constitution. No guarantees. On the contrary, I could argue that there were predictions that there was no willingness and cooperation for a two-thirds majority at all. And yet I am convinced that it is good that the action has been launched, because we are now at least forced to speak concretely. If action, ladies and gentlemen, by those who have negotiated in the last two days and today we know that negotiations have been held if an action is launched to get to the table, but not under the table, on the table of various proposals, me and the Members and Members of the Joint List are prepared to talk about them. I'm not saying we're all for it, I'm saying we're talking. All we have to do is get them, not talk, but negotiations, but we don't know what the results of these negotiations are or who participated in them. I'd like to say that I think it's really time and that it would be more than useful to start talking about content. In the context of content discussions, the official position of Congress and our client's conference is to support the inclusion in NATO. We do not hide that individuals, including party officials, have a different opinion. I don't know why we should be hiding this. Nor do we forbid them to say this because we do not exclude them from the party because of different views. And not because anyone objects to the president of the party, but because of us, he is not excluded. Nor do we expect anyone who has succeeded or failed to convince someone else that he must have the same opinion as him. That's how we do things. But to see that unity is greater, that is another thing. And we will try to ensure it, and above all not to worry that the activities we organize in the party will be organised on our own responsibility, so that things will be properly explained. However, I personally believe that it would be right not to talk so much about advantages and weaknesses. I mean, we have to tell citizens the security, defence, political, economic and other effects and obligations that we will accept by including them in NATO. If anyone thinks it's just an effect, but it's not an obligation, I don't think he's telling the truth. I think, however, when these things are presented with effects and obligations, that the vast majority will be able to assess that the effects outweigh the obligations that we will also have to take in this case in certain circumstances. And it would be good if we stopped accusing each other because, in my view, the debates that go in the direction of the prosecution, as well as the debates that quote statements for years and years ago, have done more harm than they have done to convince people to assess the effects and obligations of admission to NATO. We will decide to support the proposal for a referendum. However, once again, if and when concrete proposals are made to discuss, if even in the constitutional procedure, changes and additions to those articles that are now urgently needed to remedy some of the shortcomings of the established system are to be made ready. Understand, however, that it would be right for all of you to be prepared to discuss the content of the problems in the same way, not just those things that may suit your own interests. Let me finish. If there is more desire for us to cooperate, if there is less search for weakness, if there is less prestige, we will probably do more for the responsibility we are facing than for the debate we are having today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Kremjar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. So I feel like we're talking about something that's not on the agenda today. We're not talking today about whether we're up for joining NATO or not. We don't decide to enter NATO today. Today, we decide whether we will ask citizens whether they are fit or not. This is our task today, the task of this House and nothing less. We are calling for a referendum to invite voters, citizens of Slovenia, to come on 23 March and to make it very clear whether they want this country to join NATO or not. And so is it. And all the talk, all the ideas that explain, as someone has already said, a referendum like this, a different referendum, just blur the basic thought and the basic message of this meeting of the National Assembly. If it is at this point, and it is possible, as far as legislation is concerned and if we want to respect it, and it is right to stick to it, the deadline, 26, which has already been mentioned several times, the date by which the will of the people should be communicated, the will of the Slovenians. Then it is necessary to carry out what we propose today to carry out such a referendum, because it is impossible to carry out otherwise. And that's why it's right to find out. However, that we are all aware that the consultative referendum is something other than a binding referendum, but it is also true, so these are promises, so these commitments are that we will in any way respect the will of the people to be expressed at the referendum on 23 March. This has been signed, as far as I know, by all the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary groups, 69 Members of this Parliament are behind this. This was first accepted by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which was adopted today by the National Assembly. And as far as I understand this act, this act will be re-signed by at least 69 Members of this Parliament, or 68. It's a commitment, it's true it's political. It's true it's moral, but it's a commitment. The Prime Minister made the same commitment publicly on television as he and the government, and, of course, also the LDS and probably much wider. More than that can be done at this point. It is therefore right that this referendum be called and that today we are discussing the basic and urgent question of what people think about it. And that is the purpose of today's debate. All that we've had all day - let's call the President to explain to us what they were talking about in Davos, what he was talking about with these or those - this, excuse me, is going somewhere else, does not belong to today's meeting. Because also, does anyone imagine that the President will come here and explain to us not to invite people to the referendum - because that's all we can discuss. Probably wasn't explained to him in Davos by the presidents of other countries, whether we ask people at the referendum or not. I suppose not - heads of government, presidents, who just attended a meeting in Davos. That is why the decision, in my opinion, was entirely right not to invite the President. Of course, the President can come to Parliament whenever he wants and give his opinion. With regard to his attitude towards the referendum, the President said very clearly in this Chamber, and that he thought it was necessary to sign a referendum and ask people, and also that he thought it was necessary to join NATO. There's no such thing as a dilemma here, at least I don't see them. Some negotiations have also been mentioned. The negotiations that were evident, of course, speak of another matter, say that this LDS, and probably this coalition, also offered this hand and wanted to reach a broader consensus on these issues. But, of course, for an agreement, it takes two and many times to compromise. The agreement cannot be concluded this way, it will be as I say or will not be, because there is no compromise, then there is no agreement and then there is no agreement. I am very sorry that there have been many talks here today about individuals, what some have said, what has been read, or what has been written. I just want to give you one piece of information that I find very interesting, one almost story and fairy tale. This party, which does not have a president, this party, where it does not know who the president is, who will be, in short, unorganised, making such strange statements as we have heard before. In one television ommis recently, voters were also asked in a poll and 68% of voters after this party broadcast, unorganized, without a president, supported the entry into NATO. On the other hand, another party, which is very well organised, has a president, where it is known who is the President, where it is known who will be the President, who has voted against the question of voters, what their will is today, and the voters of this party, interestingly, only 50% support the entry into NATO, after this source. It's a little unusual, but good, that's how it is. It seems to me that in what we have heard today, Janša has, of course, done by listing all these statements by our colleagues and others, after my assessment of more advertising against Nat than the United Nations Youth Forum to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec was next reported. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. The individual contribution to this debate is justified by the following. The older generation, which has experienced and fortunately many or fewer have survived the horrors of war, can appreciate peace. This generation is also aware of how peace can be maintained. Sam, this teaches us history, I will not specifically repeat, the axis of Berlin, Rome, Tokyo, if not for a particular block to be created on the other side, then that axis would have managed without much effort, as it had already mastered much of Europe. Where we have a guarantee when the pacifists say we don't need an army. No one's going to attack us. What about the refugees and the others? Is the police capable of controlling them? What if another country gets it again, and I go into futurism a little bit, with a certain cloning, we can get another dictator or a different dictator who invents something, and he'll have a certain weapon, if we don't have a defense, we'll just have to capitulate. That is why I say, although there is a saying that health does not have a price that should not be paid, the same is true for peace. But I say, even for the price it's set, you have to have the means if you want to pay for it. Therefore, collective security is greater if we join the wider circle of defence and such an association, where it will be for each other and all for one another. I'm finishing up very briefly with the next one. You can't expect it if you don't defend yourself that others will defend you. This is said to be the only option, there is no alternative, or we will call ourselves neutrals, but who will respect this neutrality. For neutrality, there must be more. Switzerland can be neutral, because others recognize it as such. History teaches many things and needs to be looked at. That's why I'm saying it makes sense. We're not asking how people are going to be defined today. Today, we offer a referendum to people to assess what is better in their opinion. Our task is to give them, because we are aware that it is useful to join this organisation, then to give them enough convincing arguments, which are more valuable than the pathic arguments that will be cited by opponents of this association, and that on the basis that we have enough time now to be intense, I will say, propaganda, advertising, convincing citizens who have the right to vote, how to decide to make a decision, precisely in favour of all citizens, in all our countries of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you. Comrade Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor, I'm not exactly sure that today is the right day when arguments, what they mean, but I do think that some things would not be necessary in order for them to happen. Maybe I'll go into a little bit of chronology to argue what I'm trying to say. The fact is that Slovenia officially identified itself until the entry into force of NATO into the resolution of the national security source in 1993 and in particular in the amendment of this resolution, which was published on 14.01.1994, which mentioned the possibility of a referendum when joining NATO. Later, several documents were adopted talking about Nate. Thus, on 11 April 1996, seven decisions were adopted in the National Assembly, which discuss our approach to the European Union and to NATO. On 17 April 1997, a joint statement by all parliamentary parties on the integration into NATO was signed. On 23 May, the National Assembly adopted eight decisions and, at the point of Slovenia's integration into the full membership of the Union, it was written that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia would adopt appropriate legislative measures related to the membership of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO. On 11 July 2001, the National Assembly held a consultation on the activities of the National Assembly for successful integration in NATO. On 16 January 2002 there was a public presentation of opinions on the subject of Slovenia before the NATO Summit in Prague. On 23 May 2002, at the point of the proposal for an invitation to tender for an advisory referendum, which was rejected, three points were adopted and it is particularly important that this third party, which states that the National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt decisions on the tasks and activities of the State authorities for the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO Union. It is said that he should take decisions on the tasks. I'll come back to that later. November 2002 followed an invitation to Prague. In view of this third decision, which I have read to you now, it would be normal, and so we expect, personally, that all the activities related to the referendum will take place after returning from Prague. The government was already in charge on the basis of these conclusions. In addition, it is necessary to know that the actors responsible must be bound by conclusions. Those who demand such a referendum, for we have not all demanded it, but if there is a legitimate requirement, then this is another thing, we must respect. But none of this happened. Time was more than enough, maybe even too much for someone, nothing was ready. It is only after the new year, this year, that the activities of the old custom, which we already know about our integration into both the European Union and NATO, are taking place. In doing so, it must be stressed - and it is not so insignificant that Slovenia is the only one of the seven countries invited to hold a referendum. This does not mean that we are the most democratic, but that everyone can have an opinion on it. It is also irrelevant that in the previous round of enlargement, when there were three larger countries, only one of them held a referendum. They set some standard, no doubt about it. That it is essentially state-wide, that it is of national importance that the ruling majority did not vote something for force, but went to a joint action, it was a national project. And the result is here. Eighty percent were for it. It's some standard we can't somehow break. And since we are now the only one of these seven countries, we are also responsible, and we are also fit to do so, and therefore we must behave and organize ourselves accordingly. We must have such a referendum, and we must act towards this referendum in such a way that it succeeds. It is irresponsible, though, if we are to take a stand for how he will succeed, we speak, but if he fails, we will respect human will. I did quote someone here, but it's not that important. Dear colleagues, that's not how it works. If we have all identified ourselves publicly for NATO and worked without a fig in our pocket, then it would be normal to deal with and talk about how the referendum will succeed, not what, and how it will be if the referendum fails, or at least not that other matter, how it will fail, but what will happen if it is not that it is not the first theme, but that it is the first one, and it is possible, if someone is particularly grieving. I'm afraid, and it will probably hold or there will be a lot of truth in this, so it seems, in the content of an interview that one of our colleagues had in one of the journals, when he says, if the vote was secret, it would be a vote against between 20 and 30. We can ask ourselves calmly how this is possible, officially, without a fig in their pocket, and this has to be admitted to them that they were so brave and they say they are against, there are only two parties that have four MPs each, they have officially declared themselves, no one can tell them anything, they can't play a double role, they have no figs in their pocket. So how is it possible to gather between 20 and 30? But I would tend to believe what was said in this interview, to probably gather them. That's what they say. Someone's playing a double game. This is also why the referendum needs to be taken seriously and responsibly. Such a signal, serious and responsible, must also be given to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in order to properly prepare and have a proper and serious approach to the decision-making process. If the pattern is poor, the result of such a referendum cannot be good. And a non-binding referendum is not the best form of such a declaration. However, a special statement to be signed in this regard, which should introduce respect for the referendum of the stated will of the people, is a mockery of what has happened in the past and the experience we have in this regard. Respected because we behave in the SDS all the time, integration in NATO is the most important project after independence, which gives us a greater degree of security - we are probably united about this, at least those who want to understand it - and a serious country must and must do it for its citizens. That is why we have always supported the entry into NATO in the SDS, of course also by the government, and that is what we have made clear. Since this was also a government priority programme, it was not about pleasing or flirting with our voters, we are also aware that because of what we have said, we also support the government, which we have lost, but that was not enough for us, I will not say that we were not sorry, but the higher goals certainly have an advantage. We were aware of that. This state-of-the-art is now expected by the ruling majority, so we simply cannot understand that it is playing with fatal projects for our country. I conclude this on the basis of the fact that she simply does not care about invalid votes because it is not clearly set out for the programme, at least by its visible representatives. Here, by the way, I would like to point out to Mr Schroeder, who, years ago, was discussing whether Germany should send its troops to Afghanistan, he would have set up his own position - otherwise no one is asking for it, which I have mentioned, but I am giving as an example. If someone goes with his heart to this project and stands behind it and wants to show people or show Members that he is serious, then take such a step. I don't understand why he doesn't want to have a binding referendum, one that would at the same time solve things that aren't well solved in the current legislation. [[I am thinking mainly about the results of the referendum, I am thinking mainly about invalid votes.]] . I would like to point out that I hope that all those who divided Slovenia but did not get closer in this project, so I mentioned earlier that the SDS has always supported the government for this project, but we did not go differently because we knew that we had to be united here. Now the government is acting in a very different, unconnected way to be aware of their responsibilities. This is a great responsibility, perhaps it is also a fatal responsibility. We do not understand, nor do I personally understand why such opposition to the constitutional referendum, which is required in Parliament by a two-thirds majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification of the United States Senate will be two-thirds and they will try and accept us by a two-thirds majority. But we can't do our best, and we don't think it's worth trying to find a consensus here with a two-thirds majority so that we can join in a relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to join NATO, and we are acting as if NATO wants to join us. Then he is willing to accept us as equal, and we act as if someone is asking us to join or that someone wants to join us. Although I hope personally that we will continue to be able to go together into this project, as we have done so far, but not the basis of the vote split up and divided. I can say with pleasure that this joint project that we have carried out together, regardless of position and opposition, has been good, we have been successful. The result of this work was finally also an invitation in Prague, which we received. This is said to have been sufficiently credible and serious and external. It would be good for us to continue doing so. I really hope that's the way it's gonna be. I would like to say that although I support the entry into NATO and I strongly support our entry, this does not mean that I also have to support every implementation step on this issue just because you have a large majority and because you think you are right because of this large majority. I'm sorry it's like that. But you have divided us on such an important issue. I'm going to say again, it's serious, I don't care, I'm sorry, but I'm a little sorry that sometimes I'm so naive that I believe in something that I'm optimistic for so long, until I press the button. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that for such an important project as our integration into the NATO Union, it is worth doing and hoping for the last, no matter what happens. Hope says it's half the life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u119	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself have said several times that in this case I am a skeptic, this is my personal decision, and of course also the position of our party. Everyone has to put rights and obligations on the scale. The good that he gets, the less, the less good that he gets. In my opinion, the scale leaned over to the side where I estimate that it would give more than it would get. Then there are rights and duties that have been very little said about. Let's not forget, and I don't know why we're not mentioning today that NATO has already rejected us once. I want to know what has changed so much since then that all of a sudden we are wanted. I will not prevent anyone from doing anything, nor will I convince people of my judgment. If we had decided on this today in the National Assembly, the meeting would have been long overdue and the decision would have been clear. I am sure that this national assembly today would decide: Slovenia in NATO "yes". But in my opinion, the decision is so important that they must be made by people themselves, all Slovenians at the referendum. And here I will repeat what I said to the European Union. There is a referendum for me, no matter what it is called, and we know it is different because it is called a consultation referendum and binding. The will of the people is one and only. In order not to do so, I would like to say more, to accuse each other of who will be guilty, whether Slovenia will be in NATO or not. I think it is fair and fair to also say that the current state or preparation for a possible war in Iraq is certainly not in favour of a public opinion that would now be so grateful and confident for the good of Slovenia if it entered NATO. So that not all, one or the other Members, are guilty of good or evil. This is also a moment of great influence for the people at their disposal. And perhaps this is confirmed by what many have pointed out that this referendum is already so much behind schedule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. My friend Kangler. You're giving up. Comrade Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! The entry into NATO and the European Union has led us to probably the biggest crisis in the country, politically, nationally and so on. And one should wonder why. We have not had such great decisions since plebiscite. And then there are many people who may be for NATO today, others are against Nate, of course, even between us, and I am not surprised that this has brought them into personal distress. Because before there was a speech, I don't know who mentioned it, some change of ideas, customers and so on. But in truth, the one who changes his mind is honored, the one who replaces only the uniform is destructive. Since I have already mentioned this for Slovenia, and I am sure that nothing happens by chance, it does not surprise me so much that this has happened on this issue, not the substantive question, but the procedural one. It would be worth considering the preamble to the Washington Treaty, which was also mentioned or mentioned in the first NATO negotiations. And I will read one paragraph: The President-in-Office of Artenburg asked whether Slovenia is committed to the fundamental principles of the Washington Treaty, which are democracy, individual freedom and rule of law. These words are taken from the preamble to this Treaty and, as you know, there are also conditions for a country wishing to enter NATO to respect them in concrete and definitive terms. Or we might wonder what democracy, individual freedom, and the rule of law mean in this context. There's nothing more to the content of democracy than what we have here. I read that democracy is not the government of the majority, but it is the rule of law. And the government should think a little bit about this, because now there are negotiations on various matters, duties, obligations, the advantages of the Member States, and we should also ask ourselves what this means for us. When I look at this minutes of this first negotiation, I see that almost every question has been answered by our representative as expected. Unfortunately, no one has pointed out what democracy we have here. Look, we don't really have any pluralism. Look at today's debate. A simple coalition forces us to do something instead of sit down and talk about how to do it. Sometimes I have the impression that our country is a large shareholding company in which some shareholders are, and these are members of the government coalition that manages this company and manages it for their own purposes. Then, freedom of an individual - what does that mean? This means something that has been put into practice. I don't see this freedom here, except that a person can talk, can do in his private life what he wants, but he has to think about the penal law. However, if we look at government services, we see that those who are equally capable cannot reach jobs unless they agree to the regime's philosophy, which comes from the previous communist regime and system. Because you get an answer right away, if you say that somewhere, yeah, we need experts and experts. But it's no wonder if, say, the Foreign Ministry, everyone, almost all ambassadors are from one or two parties. Well, finally, what is the rule of law - is waiting in court for four or five years for a judgment, is it the Office for the Prevention of Corruption, which is in the Office of the President of the State, or is it the rule of law? Then all the jobs, as I said before, are in the hands of the coalition and leave absolutely no one with them, even when it comes to essential national interests or national interests. We're talking about an advisory referendum. I don't care if it's one or the other, if we don't have experience from the past, how easily we can get arguments that the outcome of the referendum will change. And this has actually happened to us, and because of this, we have a much more serious and critical assessment of what the state has in mind in this regard, when it insists on not submitting today, say, those statements about the commitment of the National Assembly - this is a very simple thing and one lawyer could write it quickly. However, the country now has two options, either to take this decision of such a referendum or not to take it, because it will actually turn to one side or the other on its political criteria. You know what, this promise or declaration to stick to the outcome is actually a legal farce. It's an emerging fraud. The possibility of this fraud is great, and therefore it seems to me that we are against this mode of referendum, even though, on the other hand, if such a referendum is to be held, we will do everything possible to ensure that this referendum succeeds, of course, if it is truly committed to the will of the people, the consultative will of the people, not the decisive will of the people. In the Constitutional Commission, we have no idea how many, over 20 legal experts, and so we complicate the fact that we have been slaughtering for a year a single article, a change or acceptance of a European article, and we may need to be confirmed that this binding voice or binding statement, which the government or we have signed, will be valid and enforceable. Of course, I wish the government good luck, but they will need all the political deniability to play this two-faced game. We've been talking about Nate for a long time, but this country, this government, has done nothing to organise some coherent cooperation between the ministries, and has left it to the foreign ministry and the defence ministry, which, of course, is not enough. Now everyone is wondering how we will convince our voters that this is necessary. "Good luck," I'd say, good luck, but a lot of luck you'll need. Just ask some of the servants of this National Assembly what they will say in NATO. That's what I'd like to see one of them do if the staff could tell us what they think of Nate. I'm sure a lot of people will object. In addition, I am very interested in how you will be able to convince some of your clients that you need to go to NATO. How can these so-called civil society that are in the pocket of the state in the sense that they are getting our taxpayers' money are extreme groups that are in avant-garde resistance to NATO. This is only the beginning, and this will increase quite radically in the coming weeks. Well, let me put it this way. The government should have imagined how to give content to the contract we're going to make with Nate. We have a chance to change some things if we don't like them. But if we're going to sweep it up and show it out, just that we're split up, that Nate is bad for us, and we're going to have a lot of consequences, I'm sure if we stay out of Nate. This will be a disaster for Slovenia, no matter how we think about Americans, how we think about one thing or another, but it is a union of countries, especially European countries, and I hope that these European countries will have the money to prepare some kind of defence system for Europe, etc. We wish the government good luck to succeed in this, but I think it would be much more useful if, instead of going to riddles here, we told them what really motivates them to do such a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I give the word to Godomir the Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Given that we are talking about the consultation referendum, of course I cannot help but repeat that in the Group of Youth Parties we have proposed exactly the same referendum as you know in the first half of last year and was rejected for one reason, because we have not yet received an invitation to dinner. But now we can see that this, this dinner was not even a real dinner, because we still have to say by 26 March whether we are, we will signal to the Allies that they will continue to talk to us. That they will still be able to visit the aircraft carrier, because then, if this signal is no longer available, the real people, if spoken against, of course, will not be able to do so again, the aircraft, the NATO alliance at our air rallies, etc. So all these activities that I've listed were some sort of signal back then that we're going to get this invitation. And, of course, now that excuse, why we didn't do this consultation referendum at the time, is very bad. Because this dinner is now such that we get an invitation to dinner without the equipment and with this requirement that we bring food with us. So little to compare. And if I come back to our proposal for an advisory referendum. It was a much better time back then. There were no other referendums, there were no elections yet, people were not so tired and, of course, the outcome would be much more favourable than we now have this fear and these arguments, why consultative, and sign some declarations because we have a consultative referendum and so on. So I have to say that I express my voice here, I will not say indignation, but somehow that you did not take us somehow seriously and you have also considered our initiative, as we have heard from some of them today, who have also read it back then, that we are doing a very expensive survey. If we had this at the time, we would no longer have voted on the referendum, but we could have already voted on ratification of accession to the Alliance. I would say so much about the principles of this subject, and I would say once again that, as far as the declaration is concerned, we are not going to support it because it seems pointless to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you. The word is Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I must respond to those colleagues who have repeatedly apostrophed me about that article. I mean, when it's quoted, it's okay to quote correctly, Comrade Sok. And if you know what the word speculation means, because I specifically said that cheering in that number is my pure speculation. I have no idea who would vote against this vote. I know who is public - colleague Jerovšek, please peace - who has been publicly identified according to your conduct. Also in terms of convincing the electoral body, I believe that there is a number of people among you, colleagues and colleagues who would vote against as long as there is no party control. I can tell, but it's speculation. It was unfair to quote a colleague of Sok that I listed 20 to 30 of the coalition parties. There are no words “of coalition parties”. But to be honest, I've been thinking about a lot of you, but let's face it, let's just stay with speculation. This is where I connect to my colleague Jansha. I'm grateful he's given me so much space. Also grateful for the cut he made with a list of all alleged natosceptics. He forgot himself on that list. And I quote one nice statement, before the new year, that when we enter NATO, Kučan and Drnovšek will come under the command of Bush. And I immediately wonder if such a statement is a statement that you can use to convince the electorate in favour of NATO membership or vice versa. I estimate the effect is reversed. Which is why I wonder if Comrade Janša is honest when he says he is a strong advocate of NATO membership. I don't believe him either. So much for that. About the referendum itself. We have even made science out of this issue; animated government experts outside the government, negotiated, on a matter that is very very simple and simple. It is important to ask people whether this Parliament, the government, the political parties that have signed an agreement to support NATO membership, even in the light of the mood that we sometimes and occasionally measure, has the mandate of the elections to move on. The referendum and the referendum initiative arose at a time when there was suspicion, suspicion, doubt that this project enjoys as much support as it once did. And we came to the moment when we all agreed that we would ask people and, of course, convince them that our joint project is important. And we waited for an answer, a response from the electorate and the electorate. It's very simple. We can ask people in two ways. Are we asking them: Are you in favour of Slovenia becoming a member of NATO? And that's a perfectly correct, neutral question. Or another option: Are you in favour of supporting our already decided decision to enter NATO? You can't settle the first question with a legislative referendum. The first question can only be settled with a consultation referendum. But it's perfectly clear and self-evident, and here, colleague Janša correctly assessed, as far as the outcome against, the story stops, the story ends. It is no longer relevant how we will lead the story forward. And the government and Parliament have committed themselves to informing us on such an outcome that Slovenia is not interested in continuing the procedures for joining NATO. Comrade Potts also warned us that it is likely that our partners who invite us would warn us and remove us from the list. However, in the event of a positive outcome, the procedures continue and things continue. Therefore, I do not know what the debate is about, of course, what the status of this referendum should be. Because it is simple to ask people this very simple, clearly, as the legislative and legal service has found out, question. I doubt that we will be those rare skeptics or opponents, here we are counted on two hands, we can talk to voters and voters, of course, that entering NATO is wrong. So much convincing power you have advocates of this project, including in the Social Democratic Party, in New Slovenia for God's sake, that you will convince your constituents and voters. Some polls show they're a little over half. Give first yours, yours to convince, and the story will be very close to winning. As far as I'm concerned, I represent myself, no one, no group. I've just made up my mind as I have, of course, and if sometimes, when a journalist asks me what I think, of course, I can also afford some speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you. Comrade Jelko Kacin has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The topic we deal with is challenging, attractive and useful. Also useful for accounting among political parties, and this seems to me to be wrong. It seems to me that we are trying to draw the line between Members and to say who is in favour and who is against. That's not the problem. As the debate is going on, some are trying to declare themselves ours, others are not ours, they are said to be theirs, they are hostile to us. If there are two armies of parliamentarians here, one part of whom is discredited, is less valuable because it is too large and does not understand the width of this project, it will be difficult to agree and act uniformly in our public. Therefore, I find this digging on one side and pointing fingers at the name and surname of every individual who does not like it on the list of members of each party counterproductive and inappropriate. I am trying to understand this as a challenge, as an invitation to the other side to go in the same way to look for a traitor inside that side and show that there is someone there who is not pure. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not going anywhere. In order to convince ourselves, our family members, our neighbours and citizens and citizens, we should first consider the level of debate and mutual respect. Each of us who has been elected here has a sufficient mandate and sufficient support for the electorate and the electorate that no one on this side has the right, and even less the need to point a finger at him and tell him that he is a less valuable Member. It is only necessary to make friends, sympathizers and allies, and I will therefore conclude this debate once again with two calls. It is good to confound a species, it is good to increase the number of Members who speak in a uniform manner, and it is hurtful to dissuade some from themselves in such a way that you proclaim them not to be yours. And secondly, if all this time that some people spend discrediting individuals and individuals, used to explain the advantages of our joining NATO, we would know this, both in the work of the National Assembly and in the greater public support in every measure, regardless of which institution does it. And this is our challenge, for which it is worth connecting and making or investing a little more positive energy and synergies to achieve what is our common national goal in this national project called NATO. Before that we spoke relatively quickly about the EU's national project and there were no discredits, but now there are just one "not ours", "their" or "enemies". That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you for this debate. Dr. Miha Brac has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Well, if I say first what Mr Kacin finally said - one of ours, one of yours and so on. I don't see it that way. There are people in the parties who think what they think and draw their constituents behind them, draw their constituencies and so on. This is perfectly normal for every democratic state. Of course, it is immoral to speak here one way, or in public, or, more often, in the lines of the very Liberal Democracy and the United List, DeSUS and so on, to speak publicly against Nat, but here you are silent. For example, I would very much like to see here, in this place, just to say to Mr. Kacin about these divisions and, after all, to Mr. Yuri that, therefore, our colleagues, colleagues who speak one thing in public, are silently here to say, "Listen, people, this is an important project, but I really said it there, but here, now that I've changed my mind, or I don't know what, I mean this." Please, I don't know what they're gonna say, they're in a tough situation, I agree. But today there was a lot of talk about content and form, and that's what this is all about. Now you have an opportunity against Nate to tell your people publicly, your constituents what you think. And then you'll be able to weigh the situation. It would be very important that, for example, Mr Anderlich, Mr Juri did not say everything because he was lost in other debates, perhaps Mrs Černugelj, Mr Zlęběz could have ripped off a bit of time and stopped studying the daily newspaper in detail, for which the country is paying a good price, but said what he meant by what he was saying, which is what he was writing, and Mr Školč Mrs., because the list is too long, I will spend too much time. So this is where you define yourself and tell us what you think or how we should understand what you are saying outside of Parliament, so that we know what you are really thinking here. Nor can I say that Mr Kramberger said earlier that yes the Secretary-General is a free man, he can say what he wants. It's a little awkward. The Secretary-General, as they say, is no one. He's got a big circle of influence, people listen to him, and they think if our secretary general said something like that, then there's probably something on it. And that confuses people and then people ask, what does that mean now, are we going to be in or out? You need to give a clear signal to the voters, how anyone thinks, whether the government is in favour or against, etc. I also think that this project of ours, which I have always thought of as a joint project, is such a serious matter - although it is not a transfer of sovereignty, we are probably in agreement, but it is a matter of entering or engaging in a defence system, which means that our autonomy when it comes to defending the country will no longer be the same as it is today. But we are doing this consciously because we know that security will be greater than we are able to guarantee if nothing else, for example, when our neighbors threaten us, it probably wasn't meant to be, but in the paper it said, "Let the frigate affect and this one in the Bay of Piran...", it's some kind of battleship. But what can we send towards a little bit of our maritime work, two rubber bands, one or both. That's what people say, that's the problem. So what I would like to say is somehow clear: with us in the Social Democratic Party there is no dilemma, we are for NATO and we will vote for NATO. I'm afraid others aren't up for it, and give those you're up against, because you've said it publicly, here now to tell us what the situation is and we'll count ourselves easier and we'll say, well, maybe we'll come through. I am also afraid that the situation is not so simple and that this majority is not at all as ready as it should be given national interest, because it is a genuine national interest, and not that brewery I do not know what else. This is a matter of national interest. And here again I wonder you, who have the majority that you did not allow the President of the State to come here and tell you what he thinks about this matter, which is a national interest. But you stopped him because you have a majority without asking him. But this is again, I'll say, your picture of the need for a referendum. He can't come because you took that away from him, that right. Unless we vote again. But we will make another proposal, and make another proposal, procedurally, on the need for a referendum. [[...]] The government has made a decision, sent, say, a request for inclusion. We have received an invitation that says, okay, Slovenia can become a member. And we should now, so not even the government, in fact just the Foreign Minister, say, okay, we're going into this and that. But when the ratification law is on the table, then the referendum, when it's all over. That's the normal way. That's why we said we didn't want to rush the referendums, but you promised the referendums too quickly. As essential as necessary, you have promised to end the “duty-free shops”, so you are now feeling something unnecessary. And I can tell you, yesterday and the day before yesterday in Berlin, I listened to the German and other diplomats who are crying out at our expense, how we are not real as a country, because they cannot understand that the referendum is a referendum in which the Member must even commit himself to taking it into account, because the referendum is something that is taken into account. No, we will accept a special declaration with which we will commit ourselves that, by law, this is not necessary, but we are so highly moral that we will commit ourselves to respect. This is so crazy that the European man doesn't understand them, and I believe the Balkan does not. So the only answer to that question we were trying to give was constitutional law. Because we mean things seriously because we think that entering NATO is a serious matter - to give the highest possible legal form of decision to clear up any doubt. Let us step together, make every effort at all ends and places - of course, the government should also give some money for the campaign - and the media will obey you, and we would do well together. But that doesn't happen because you don't have that clear decision. And that's the biggest problem. I must also say that yesterday people asked whether it was true that we had a referendum on Slovenia's inclusion in NATO on 23 March. One of the German colleagues even forgot a little bit and said, "Yes, and you're normal, but then it'll probably be the first wave of these military operations," he says, "because this will all go to waste with you, you spit in your own bowl with it." But I said, "We're 21, those who think differently than the government thinks, turn to others, tell our government what you're telling me right now." Mr. Potts is talking about the proposals under the table. I don't know where he got this idea, maybe from some other time. We put all our suggestions on the table. We followed the words of the Prime Minister, who said, "I am ready to accept proposals, whatever will be constructive," or I do not know what words he has already used, even in this direction, so that the constitutional law would probably be a suitable solution. But then, everything turned out differently. Why? What for? If only we could take a good thing together. You weren't interested. And here I think it is a matter of misdirection, of double morality again, of something that does not belong in, I would say, a democratic European space. Unfortunately, this government, this government coalition, in this case, lacks state wisdom, lacks state authority. It's not like that. For you in the Liberal Democracy and all others who need to follow this, February 14th is more important than March 23rd. I firmly believe that after February 14th all these debates would be significantly easier, but today it is not that simple. If one side prevails, the other side loses and so on. If anyone gives us anything, of course, someone else will lose, but it's not about someone giving us anything. It's our joint project. And since this is our joint project, the project of the National Assembly to which we have committed ourselves, I expect at least the minimum moral attitude of those Members and Members who are in public against Nat to say here: yes, I am against Nat, I will vote against all of this because I do not like Nate because it is imperialism and I do not know what else you are saying. If this posture is clear here, it will also make it much easier for all of us to judge what to do to make the referendum about Nate succeed. Unfortunately, we won't be able to get rid of it because of the consultation referendum. I have no doubt that you will vote because you don't care. You're waiting for the key and that's it. But I'll say it anyway. I hope this thing works. I hope we don't smile. But if a referendum fails, then the government has to step down if it has any pride. And let me put it this way. In the Social Democratic Party, he is now trying to glue himself, in the speeches of Mr Kacin and many others, czech, some duality. We have been doing the same since day one, saying the same thing here in this hall and in the public. You don't. The duplicity is on your side, not ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you. I give the word to France the Rock. Excuse me? There's no replica here now. Franci Rokavec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u133	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u134	I myself will support the decision on the invitation to referenda for NATO. That, of course, is because of the following fact. In fact, by 26 March our country must report to NATO's headquarters what our people's decision to enter the Euro-Atlantic connection is. In fact, the fact is that probably my predecessor has deliberately forgotten to mention in his speech that we have to define ourselves by that date. And misleading the public about whether a referendum is needed or not, but it is indeed a great demagogy, which is actually on the move, and the question of what should be the appropriate referendum, legislative, consultative or any other kind of attempt to reduce the interest of voters and voters, to participate in this referendum and to make a decision at this referendum, which is certainly very important for our country. I must say that I strongly protest the labelling of Members and Members in this Parliament. Who's up for it, or who's up against Nate, or who's up for it, and so on. In fact, even if the Secretary-General of the People's Party has stated here, colleague Brejc, in the Slovenian People's Party, we can think with our heads. And I don't agree that anyone would try to think for us, just like practice is possible somewhere. In fact, I think that the basis of democracy is, in particular, that each individual has the right to be included in a political party or not, to his or her opinion and to his or her conviction. And I think that these debates certainly do not lead in the direction that they would actually try to ensure that all citizens of citizens are involved in this year's referendum to join NATO, as well as in earlier times when we were talking about the European Union. And one more thing, I trust in the Slovenian people, the Slovenian people have already made the right decision in history many times, he was able to decide in key difficult moments, and I am sure that he will also be able to identify what is most appropriate for the future of Slovenia this year on 23 March. What the future of Slovenia should be like in the future. Therefore, any attempt and labelling in this respect I reject and I think that the greatest task of Slovenian politics will be positions or opposition, where this is a key project of the state of Slovenia to convince all the arguments for and against, and this will honestly tell all citizens and citizens, because this will also be the most credible decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Now Peter Levich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u136	I've got one wrong quote here. This is about the fact that I also mentioned Mr Jožef Školč among those whom I specifically referred to as persons who are against Nat. But exactly so, Mr Školč says in this text for Youth: "I admit, I saw your questions before I went on vacation, but I neglected them a little. Of course, I can hide behind what the client is doing, but I have to think about it. Please leave me alone on vacation." In short, Joseph Scholch was not explicitly opposed, but he was still thinking about things.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u137	Good. Peter Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u139	Please allow my colleague, Mr Levich, to give his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I didn't want to come by, but this is already, like, a circus, we'll say if we express ourselves so gently. A while ago, I personally and my colleagues here tabled a proposal for an advisory referendum. Then you all, I'll say, didn't laugh, but you looked at us as if we were being unserious, as we were going to the consultative referendum, ha ha. Look what you're doing in here today, throwing your own pollen under your feet, because you're all for NATO, with the exception of some. So I don't know, you're being a little surly. Now, if you want to go to NATO, it doesn't matter whether we have counseling or whatever, because you have a desire to go to NATO, I don't know why you're going now, and the voters will say that at the end of the day, if you play, if the government plays, the electorate will tell you whether they believe the government or not. Now, if they believe, they will, that's the base. I would like to say this further, Mr Brace is demanding the resignation of the government in the event of a failed mandate. Who will then be in the government and the SNS and these people here who are against Nat, Zląb, Črnuglova Si, the rest of you are obviously not able to get along with each other. And, in fact, it might be lucky that there will be a war when we have a referendum. Because then people will know exactly whether they want to go to NATO or not. So just for a little while. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you. Quiet Run, will someone else change the position of speaker? No, no, no. Joze Aishovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u142	I'm sorry, there's a bit of a circus back here, and you don't sound so good, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to be very brief because I think it's been said so much that it doesn't make any sense to go into this. However, it might be good to respond to some of the things that have been said, including the last round of a referendum that we did not support and proposed by the youth group. In fact, we considered that it was too early to call a consultative referendum at that time. At that time, we defended the position that we must turn to electorate and electorate for the referendum when we are invited. And that referendum would have been really weird if we didn't have the invitations, but we would have decided whether or not to. There may have been a lack of a consultation referendum when all parliamentary parties, apart from one, signed an application for accession to NATO, but then perhaps it would be time to do so. But that time is long behind us, and then we could ask voters and voters whether we're going to ask for membership or not. But the next opportunity is certainly now when we have an invitation and when the government will have to decide whether to accept this invitation or not, and I think it is right to ask voters and voters. If they say no, of course the government won't do it. This is how we committed ourselves here in Parliament, and these are also the statements of the highest government representatives. Of course, I don't see any reason for calling now after the government's resignation for taking into account the will of the electorate and the electorate. I really do not see, and there is therefore no particular fear that a handful of Members and Members would represent a new government suit after the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u143	Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Your Honor! There have been several calls here today, I think from Mr Kacin to send unique messages to our citizens. I think there are actually e-mails coming from our side. All those who perform, and I also guarantee, all Members of our party and also of these coalitions, are uniquely supporters of Slovenia's entry into NATO and will do everything to make this happen. Now two months after the presidential elections and the conclusion of the local elections, it would be time for the ruling elite to stop showing its political exclusiveness, its political muscles. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Unfortunately, we have not all succeeded together, but I think there is more blame for the authorities to agree to actually go with certain binding positions or binding decisions before our people. Now we're in time trouble, you've said it many times today. The fact is that we did, but we also warned at the time that we should put on the government in September, and therefore we cannot be held accountable for the fact that it has been politically calculated and that the party's interests were ahead of national interests and today the party's interests are in front of the congress in front of the country's greatest interests. Is it a unanimous message that today, even for a sample, he did not come between us and talk to us by the Prime Minister? Is this a uniformly good message? Whether it appears to the Prime Minister that a clear call to the Slovenians, or also to plead, for God's sake to unite the parties for a joint project, for a joint performance, would harm him among the electors of his client. Maybe it's hurting him. Look, Minister Rupel has asked us to agree as soon as possible on how we'll inform the citizens. I believe Minister Rupl did this honestly because he had already pleaded and written a very determined article against the race, which was then triggered against Nat. At that time, however, the Minister was not defended by his own party, nor by the power he was part of, nor by a coalition. Because of his clear views, he was a problem of power, which he frankly acknowledges is yours or his Member, a coalition member, Mr Juri, who says he is looking forward to a failed referendum and will have to be replaced by Minister Rupl and Grizold. Such messages are also sent and it seems that those who are against joining NATO, publicly or secretly, as stated, have done everything they can to ensure that this referendum is not actually binding.In this case, they will have the opportunity to collapse this project in the second round, if the outcome is positive, by means of their political influence, which is obviously huge, with propaganda against NATO, only in the second round. And here one wonders why in Slovenia it is not on the front pages of government newspapers that we say again, I will hear again in Denmark - that 85% to 90% of Danes will be at the re-election referendum for NATO. That's exactly what Aurelio Yuri asked Danish officials. And they answered because the Danes are aware that Denmark's security has been repeatedly threatened over the past 200 years by Germany and also occupied. And that by entering NATO they became more sovereign, the small nations were more sovereign by entering NATO. And Mr Juri heard this argument, he was amazed that he thought he would get a different argument that a small nation like Denmark today would be against Nat if no one threatened us. We have the same historical experience, but not only on the side of Germany, including other Western borders, northern borders, eastern borders and even southern borders. And in such situations, we are not able to gather unity. However, we send unique messages from our party: citizens of Slovenia, decide, show that you are for NATO, even though the authorities have offered you a survey instead of a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. I'll give the word to Janko Webber. I'm sorry, Aloys Sok is on the move first, because there was a replacement here. Comrade Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll try to be very brief. But I would like to draw attention to two things I have heard today in this debate. Surely, then, the formal foreign policy objective of all parties in this Parliament or most of the parties in this Parliament. If you do not believe, you can see that Nova Slovenija already has in its basic convention charter, which we adopted more than a year and a half ago, it is stated that the fundamental objective in the foreign policy area of New Slovenia is to enter NATO and into the European Union. So there is no way anyone can say - and this fundamental congress resolution was unanimously adopted - that New Slovenia was ever against joining NATO. It is certain, however, that the paths are different and that the legal right of every political party to propose how this issue should be addressed. We never asked for a referendum, but we also agreed that if most of the parties promised to do so then we would do it together. And it would be wise for the ruling coalition to agree with the opposition parties and to reach consensus on this issue, which is not in fact in this direction. What worries us in the opposition is the fact that we are getting as close to this goal as possible, the less ruling coalition is acting in this sense positively. How do you imagine this fact is being carried out in this country by such strong anti-NATO campaigns? And this, I believe, as some Members have already said, will continue to step up. When I was in Murski Sobota on Monday, I was surprised that practically the whole city was described as graffiti against Nat: “My child will not go to Afghanistan.” I asked how long it's been written on these walls of your city houses. Three weeks, they told me. It's been this propaganda for three weeks. And who writes that? Do you believe or do you think that in the opposition we should believe that this comes from some civil spheres of our society? I'm sure you don't. I will not repeat and list individuals who do not share the same opinion with the top of their customers. But this is certainly not good if the leadership of political parties does not have the same question about this view. If the Vice-President or the Secretary-General continues to express his anti-NATO position. Otherwise, a party member may feel that way, it is totally permissible and it is a matter of internal democracy. But the leadership of political parties, Members of Parliament and Members, must certainly be united in this direction and act in a uniform manner. But if they don't work together, then there are wrong impulses to the public and to the public in such reactions as are happening in this country I didn't know until today, and I haven't read that Mr Anderlič has also declared to be a nasceptic. I think if he didn't say that, then he would deny it, and I'm sure it has a big impact on public opinion. But often I drive towards home to Styria, take with me some hitchhiker and we talk, and in fact they all tell me the same story: I'm against America, and I'm against Nate. Why is that? They say no, because Dr. Mencinger is also against Nate. It is said that the university also has this anti-Native or anti-American mood. However, I would like to draw attention to another fact that Mr Potrč has said here today. If I understood him correctly, he said that this consultative referendum made sense only in the event of a change of constitution. So then the whole point of what's going on here is the amendment of the 90th Article of the Constitution, which talks about referendums and people's initiatives, followed later, and then, of course, you'll even have an alibi in today's decision. What the government is proposing must be abolished, it is said, to reduce the rights to a subsequent legislative referendum and then you will also achieve that there will be no more referendum. But this will close the possibility for all other referendums, not just this referendum that talks about joining NATO. And just for the end. I'm alone, Mr. Yuri. [[That's not between us right now.]] , very well understood your message, written in the newspaper Delo, even though it was speculative, actually has the same effect on the public. But it certainly wasn't a speculative card that you sent me for Christmas or for the new year, as you would like, where you finally wrote "I wish you a happy new year 2003" and added "without Nate". So you can't say that you're not one of those who's taking a public stand against Nate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you, Comrade Sok. It's Janko Weber's turn to debate, and he has his word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u148	Nice greeting and thank you for your word. I would like to say immediately in the introduction that I will not join those who are somehow trying to discuss in this sense that they are separating Parliament and even views on who is thinking about Nate. I myself believe that we really need to make a decision in Slovenia as soon as possible and that this referendum must be within the shortest possible time. The one envisaged is also acceptable to me, especially for some practical reasons. In fact, if we look at the material that we have been able to obtain from the Minister of Defence, which relates mainly to the organisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces, it is clear that if we join NATO, this organisation is completely different than if we are not included in NATO. And what's very important: if we're not involved in NATO, this organization is more expensive. So this is one of the very practical reasons to try to substantively discuss what inclusion means and what it does not mean. In addition, if we join NATO, the Slovenian Army will need significantly fewer facilities than the Ministry of Defence currently owns. All of these facilities, or most or a large part of them, are located in locations that are actually very attractive and suitable either for economic investment or for the development of the economy or for the resolution of some housing issue. Indeed, even a few of the apartments are still unoccupied and are owned by the Ministry, precisely because the organisation of the army is not definitively appointed. And, of course, by releasing this property, economic growth is certainly achieved, and social stability is also achieved. Because if you give someone an apartment, it's the most important thing in a person's life. And if all these steps lead to economic development and social stability, then I think it is really necessary to think about trying to organise the Slovenian Army in a way that is conditioned by integration into the NATO Union. Then, of course, we can view it as one of the globalisation processes and, of course, of course, with the interest of addressing the various crises prevailing in the world. And this debate on whether the crisis in Iraq will be the one that affects the decision or not. Yes, look every year in the world we face crises, and every year when we talk about putting off, say, a referendum, it can happen that there is a new crisis, and we will always find that this is not a good time, because there is a crisis there and there. It is certain that there are crises in the world and that, in fact, these crises have somehow spurred globalisation or globalisation processes. Of course, there are very serious concerns about these processes, especially because these forms of globalisation are likely to be somewhat unknown or under-appropriate, or for example: we are all somehow well represented or trying to imagine that it is necessary and how globalisation in the economic field should be pursued, how globalisation in the scientific field, not least in the information and, of course, in the military, which we are discussing today. I think that many of the dilemmas we face stem precisely from the fact that we do not feel the process of globalisation on an ethical and moral level as well. In fact, the world community is as large as possible - and by expanding NATO, of course, this community is also growing - I believe that the more urgent and important principles of some human and human ethics are and probably because we do not imagine these globalisations effectively enough or it does not become effective enough and quickly compared to the other areas that I have previously listed, I would say, in understanding what globalisation is actually meant in this area. And of course, if this realization, or, above all, human and human ethics, were to take place in parallel with all these processes, it would probably be much easier for us. However, Slovenia, as a single and sovereign country, can do much to help these processes in this particular area and, of course, provided that it joins these organisations. In this way, I think that we can really make our experiences and thinking about the quality of life, and, finally, I think that we can do a great deal to protect our borders. These boundaries we're having a problem with, I'll say, somehow fought back in II. World War II and preserve Slovenia as an area that is very clear on the world map, and I think that even at the moment that we have become a independent and sovereign state, we can protect these borders much more effectively if we are included in the NATO Union. That is why, of course, I will support this integration and I think that this process must also be accelerated and very clearly tried to present, in particular the advantages of these procedures and the opportunities that Slovenia has, to change those unclear issues that arise to us as a dilemma, why this is good and why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Now he's got the word of a colleague, Dorian Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. I was probably among the first in Slovenia, at least in this term, which was attended by anti-Natov demonstrations - at least Mark Breclja, I can say, in Cyprus, when, at the presentation of my views, the defence minister in Cyprus “started” green heads behind me. But he would also mention that when I listened to Secretary General Nate, he said that when he was demonstrated on his arrival in Slovenia, it was no big deal that we were just normal democracy. Therefore, I am not afraid of any future demonstrations or expressing a different opinion regarding Slovenia's entry into NATO or any other political story in Slovenia. I am also one of those who felt that there was in fact no need for a referendum. I came to this National Assembly by writing in my election programme to support Slovenia's entry into NATO and to do everything I can to get there. We have finally adopted a resolution on the national security strategy in this National Assembly. We have adopted amendments to the legislation relating to this area, and we have also written there that our basic belief is that we want to join this organisation. Let me remind you that when we entered the United Nations, we did not call for a referendum. I also reject the evidence of the duality of the LDS. I'm not even afraid of different opinions within the party. Finally, we have written down all our client programmes and programming platforms and resolutions in such a way that we have recorded entry into then as one of the foreign policy priorities. During this period, the coalition government has done everything in its last mandate to bring Slovenia and create the conditions for entry into NATO. But I think there was a lot of duplicity in this national assembly, and I'm going to say, not just as it was obvious on this side; I think there was no duality on our side. However, the fact is that there were some delays and debates which, while legitimate in the debate, did not deal with the very problem of entering NATO, but were merely and exclusively procedural in nature. But it wasn't started on our side. Remember, I will say, the unfortunate attempt by our President Borut Pahor in the framework of Euro-Atlantic coordination to harmonise the views of the parties on this subject, and recall the views of the SDS at the first meeting, where they said, "We don't care what the referendum is going to be, or even if it's a referendum", but at night, they've actually changed their minds and come up with very hard points of view, what the referendum is actually going to be, what kind of a referendum it's going to be, and what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, and what it's going to be, exactly. I am sorry that - Mr Rupar, when you spoke, I was silent myself - I am sorry that we did not actually immediately initiate a procedure concerning the consideration of a possible referendum within the normal procedures of the National Assembly. With this we have lost valuable time and I think that - as colleague Geza Juban warned me - also voices, because all this discussion that took place in the National Assembly certainly did not benefit from the public opinion support for Slovenia's entry into NATO. The binding nature of the referendum. For me, the referendum will be binding, however it may be, and even if it will be of a consultative nature. I think that a firm decision, which was also made by coalition partners, is that regardless of whether it will be just if I give it under the notes, a "exploratory" referendum, in the event that the answer to the public and voters is "no" to stop the project. However, I doubt or question whether, otherwise, if the answer "yes" is yes, it will be confirmed whether those who are opponents will behave in the same way. In this sense, it would certainly be a need for a different form of referendum, but I think it is more than enough for us parliamentarians. Last but not least, I really listen to what other statesmen say about what is going on in the Republic of Slovenia. There's nothing to be ashamed of. Last but not least, politicians can talk, as we speak, about the situation and think about what is right and what is wrong. This is how they do, of course, have their opinions - we are the only country in this package that will have a referendum, but the belts are all aware of the facts arising from the North Atlantic Agreement, namely that the Contracting Party ratifys the Treaty and implements its provisions in accordance with its internal political procedures. That means there's nothing we do that could be in front of strangers' shame. And finally, duality. You know, as I mentioned earlier, there was something about her in these two years that I've been here. Just remember how one of the parties sitting on this side, on the left side of me, actually debated and voted and opposed the SOPS first, and then was in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you. Instead of Franz Pukšič, Janez Janša will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thanks again for saying that. First, I would say that those who are just at a time when a debate and decision on some very specific and, in our opinion, also a very bad proposal are saying that the door is still open and that negotiations are still needed and so on, that they are pursuing pure demagogy. What else should we negotiate if you vote on your proposal? Whoever's saying this is completely out of line. What is your willingness to negotiate, it was seen this morning when we proposed another possibility of reflection - that the President of the State should come to the National Assembly, telling his opinion, which would be very good to hear, while at the same time getting a few more hours of time to maybe find another solution. I think you have gathered almost two-thirds of the votes for rejecting this proposal. It's that act that tells us how much someone's ready to talk. Now the people were voting on something, and then they'd say the doors are open, so you can join us later. Thank you so much for such negotiations! If Demos had passed the plebiscite law in 1991 with its ordinary majority, as a simple law not as a two-thirds majority, and would have told Mr. Anderlich and the others who were then the opposition: yes, because you have time, later join us, we are open - what would it look like? Like a mine action of a key national project! That's what you're doing now. When I mentioned these differences about Nate earlier in government coalition parties, I let DeSUS go, and I apologize deeply for that. Especially after these discussions, which we have heard from the DeSus Members, how everyone is for NATO. I would quote last year's statement, a few months old, very freshly, Secretary-General DesSus, who said: "Looking at NATO, we are certainly in favour of the referendum, and I hope to say that if the party were politically stronger, it would also be louder against joining NATO." Declaration by the Secretary-General of DeSUS. Key people in all government parties have made very militant statements against Nate in recent months. And these people are going to be running a campaign for NATO now. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u153	I give my word to Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Today a lot of this has been said here, that almost to us, “this little” has nothing left, but still. If I came here to be informed, I'd think we'd all make a great representation: we're talking about the same thing, and that's really very nice. It's just that I'm really afraid of those figs in my pocket that they won't get fat all day. I will say what Mr Sok started about our client, that we have written in the congress program to fight for NATO entry. We even have the slogan "Europe on our soil." Here we also thought: for NATO and for the European Union. And now we're also somewhere on the line where there's only one more step missing to go through. Now, if this is going to be a disaster, we'll see. Today it was also said that the president of the country would come. Okay, I don't even miss him or come or come, but I want to say something about him. On the question of how to run for president of the country, he said that for 10 years as Prime Minister he had led Slovenia to this stage, that there was still a step missing to join European integration and that his work had somehow led to the end. And it seems strange to me whether or not he will do something else as president of the country, but without anyone telling him anything to tell people: I led this country to this, we went across the Red Sea, really only 10 years, not 40, let us, please, vote and to create our party's policy, after all. That's what I miss. Thank God. And if that's how you and I are, I don't even know what we're doing today! We've been stuck here all day, only the opposition is talking, we're just defending ourselves, nothing else, and we're warning. Just like you're warning me now. So with these things and I would have finished myself and I ask you nicely: let us do together what we all have this difficult task, and also responsible for us. And not to be blinded in front of people, that we do not have people “for a fool” because they will even have to come to a decision twice. I don't know why complicate things. And if we're all for it, then it's really simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thanks, buddy Mamić. Joseph Scholch has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I think that most of the debates today revolve around, I would say, issues that are not related to the decision that we are discussing, and of course I do not want to say that they are not important. For these debates related to the decree, it is not important at this time who is in favour or who is against and who, at any time, has said anything about Nate, but it is important to ensure that the referendum can be held. By the way, let me say that it bothers me if I “dispute” anyone's opinion against Nate is not a party to the opposition or should it also be a party to our foreign minister, who today had a stamp in Dnevnik, which, I will say, is destructive to democracy; [[...]] [[From the Dmitry Rupel bench.]] who just says - if it's a fake, then you'll settle it with the diary, and it's just [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u157	And I'll give my word then even for the eventual [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u158	You're just going to extend what you want to say. We would like to establish in this Chamber - and here I am counting down the foreign minister - the atmosphere when it is not possible to say "for" and "against". I'm against it! I simply object to this because this hall is intended for this and the debates at the referendum are also aimed at people weighing the arguments "for" and "against". The SDS colleagues shall request a clear message from this meeting. If I understand them correctly, it is their clear message that the government must be responsible for the outcome of this referendum. Brejc and his colleague Jerovšek told the government to resign if it did not. This is, I will say, in some contradict by speaking or saying that all political parties, with these declared exceptions, are taking up this goal. This is a contradiction: to hunt down the government at this point, where it is a common goal, and at the same time to see that the arguments for this actually arise also over this and above all elsewhere, is, I will say, a legitimate act, but wrong. Mr Brejc's question whether the government has promised a referendum too quickly is, of course, in place. At the same time, it must be said that the government did not have a major manoeuvre regarding this referendum on these matters, as the resolution on national security had already foreseen that it would be decided at the end of the referendum. Make up your mind, that's it! Mr Janša, I was at the time among the candidates for this solution to decide, I am not sure if we had already had this referendum law, which once suits us fully, but secondly not. There are other contradictions that I see in these performances. I'm surprised that once another interest is defended, once again the possibility of any decision at the referendum is released, but in this case it is tried, I'll say, to limit the matter. I will not explain the lost opportunities because they are not the subject of this discussion. There was an opportunity, in my opinion, to talk about a binding preliminary or subsequent referendum related to the entry into NATO, which was bound by the amendment of the defence law - no one wanted to take it because it would be less spectacular. No! No! Long time ago, Mr. Janša, I mentioned it. She was even published in the newspapers and she was ignored, but let those who fight for prestige take credit for these things. What I think is important at this point is that, in fact, this decision is tied not so much to the promises made by the parties or to individual Februarys, but to these decisions already taken by the National Assembly years ago. Very unanimous then. And at the time, there was an argument that the resolution was also spreading in this work, that it was looking for its security framework, possibly even in this enlargement, that these external criteria were those that would help to make order in the defence forces. This was a strong argument to agree to this at the time. And at this point, of course, I expect these things to be discussed, I will say, with a cold head, and I also assume that if there is any argument for this, it is that - I will say - domestic soldiers do not play with the army in the way they were used to play. That professionalisation, which will also be controlled by this type, will produce the effects that money must give, which is not small for these purposes. But what I would like to ask of this assembly is to allow this referendum to take place normally and also to allow for a discussion of the pros and cons. Last but not least, this was the assumption of this desire to integrate into NATO those who have talked a lot about this as a desire for integration into the European Union, that it is a democratic country that is defending, I will say, all freedoms. And freedom of speech is one of the key freedoms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Now Master Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. So, today's session is supposed to discuss not so much the substantive aspects of NATO integration, but, above all, the technical rule on how to lead this Slovenia to this state project and how citizens decide to do so. This is a key issue that we are talking about today. And here it looks like we're not standing on the same shore. And that's true! We have committed ourselves not only to consult citizens, but to decide citizens. It is our responsibility, however, to adopt such rules and decisions as to ensure that the civil will is also realized and that there will also be no complications due to such a procedure as is now the case. Signing some political commitments to realize is now counterproductive on your part. Why? Because your statements show those who present this, at least some of you, that you are not fit to join NATO. I respect your decision, it's your free decision, but it doesn't hold up, so you're offering a commitment to stick to it. How can you offer these two things that are antagonistic, incompatible? Do not sign this nonsense, but help or do together what we have also suggested that the will of men be realized. I do not agree with Mr Rokavac, who says this will reduce people's interest in the referendum. The interest in the referendum will diminish what they will find on the basis of these procedures, that their will is not crucial. Yeah, because it's happened in the past! However, it is important what is said, what is said by each individual in the national assembly in the sense of addressing the electorate. I will not go on my own and criticise the voters of the Youth Party to make the wrong decision, they have the right or the right of the Young Party, those who elect them, to have such a high share against Nate. I can't blame the voters now. But it is our duty to talk them out of what are the arguments - all of them; for you, too, of the Liberal Democracy, with your conduct or we, by our conduct, influence the elective body, yours or ours, on the contrary, do so. And we need to ask ourselves about this, especially this technical job. What Mr Janša has warned does not make sense to sign such a paper, on the basis of other statements made by fellow Members, because it is unworthy. Leave your signatures and we will decide together on a path that will lead to a sure way for voters to go to the polls once and that this will be valid and that those who are invalid votes will not be considered against. That's essential. So this is the subject of today's consultation. And apparently today, "this flag will fall." You have decided on such a course, of course you accept responsibility. Citizens will take responsibility or decision, but in the ruling coalition, because it has thus entered into this thing, of course it is also responsible for the result. In line with the move she has made, she will also be followed by this, and we will demand it. The result, of course, depends on what we do before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. We have two more debates reported. Maja Zupan has a word first. He's quitting. And Maria Ana Tisovic is also giving up. This concludes the debate. I call on all Members and Members to join us because we will move on to a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u162	Mr. President, I called before you said your conclusion and you nodded to me that you'd accepted me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u163	Comrade Rupar, you asked that you speak for Pukšič, and I approved it. Then came your secretary of the delegation to speak for you or Pukšič, a colleague of Janez Janša, and I also agreed to do so. And everyone else even gives up on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u164	No, but it's 44 minutes and I should call if anyone else wants to discuss it. And I raised my hand at the right time. So please, if you'll give me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u165	We don't have a defined time here when we have to finish the point. Now we're going to make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u166	No, don't wait. You're in violation of the rules of procedure. I apologize, Mr President. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I don't care about television. It's important that you hear me. I'll tell you something. But I have a right if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u167	Okay, I just thought it was a matter of course, if that's what you agreed. Doesn't that apply to you?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u168	Mr President, everyone has the right to speak now in these 43 minutes, if I am not mistaken, under the rules of procedure, if he has applied. It's just that you have to give that opportunity by the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u169	We still have our conclusions, we still have our decree, we still have our vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u170	It's okay, it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u171	It's all within this time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u172	It's okay. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u173	Here you go, Mr. Rupar. Take it. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr President, for this 43 minutes. [[...]] [[Response from the sent-off benches.]] I won't be that long. [[...]] Well, thank you very much for your word. I'm not gonna take advantage of it, and I'm gonna try to be as short as I can. But I think about it this way: why all of this, for some, unnecessary speaking time, such long discussions and so on. Personally, I think it is only the fault of all of this, I will say either disobedience or intolerance or disregard for the arguments of individuals who decide on the necessary compromises that cannot possibly take place in this national assembly. As far as I know, you came very close to this compromise yesterday in coordination, what kind of proposal to offer to the electorate. And as far as I know, then at some point the president of the LDS Tone Anderlič literally went crazy and, of course, interrupted this debate, after what happened, and today's debate is due to this debate. Personally, I am very sorry that Congress and election congress for the president of the LDS are taking place at a time when individual candidates can show their muscles, and that is nothing else. So, Tone Anderlich wanted to show his muscles and, of course, to buy LDS votes, so this debate and non-compromisingness. That we can afford such debates, however, is a real moment that we are living, especially because voters for the first time, as far as I know, are no longer insinuating that the failure of the referendum would be the fault of the opposition to understand for the first time that the panic that arises in the LDS is panic because you have lost your own electorate and your own electoral body in support of joining NATO. Of course, I'm not going to say that only the policy that is planned brings about is awkwardness. For example, the awkwardness that I have already mentioned today in Dražgoša, when a crowd of fighters and those sympathizers applauded Toneto Ropa, the prime minister, when he spoke of entering NATO, and a paratrooper with that famous inscription, which I have already said, "Then it is," let's say, "fascist Germany". But this is not the only mistake, so there are planned, well-planned attempts to challenge the positive will or success of this. I'll give you an example from our places. At the end of World War II, the Allies, the Americans, on the Austrian Korean metal cluster boxes, in them rifles, partisan clothes or for fighters in Koroška, well, some of them also relied on our side. And when the men of the market were reminded four, five years ago that they should give thanks and honor to them, they laid down one of these tapes there, and opened it as a monument. Well, and I must say, back then, they were very much praising the Americans, and they were tremendously praising help, and they were all very excited and, of course, applauding. So there was even this kind of talk, and I'm going to try to quote it, that "in heavy ice, wind and deep snow, on June 10, 1944, the fighters discovered these..." - June, in the snow of June - and so on. But last year and this year there is no celebration at this monument, it is not. Personally, I was very surprised, but then they told me with this gesture: you know, Nato, America, we don't like them anymore. I cite this example in order to make some of them more presentable or to give a clear picture. Personally, I believe that the comfort, if any, for the European Union, but for Nat, that this comfort, that they have done the same in Austria and Ireland, in the Scandinavian countries, is sometimes blind and stupid. Because it doesn't hold on to Slovenia. There must be a connection between NATO and the European Union, seven members there and seven members here, and it will certainly not be possible to reach the European Union if we work with figs in our pocket as we do for NATO. Just a final thought. I am convinced that if 30% of the voters are elected for the referendum, this means that they are the opposition's voters or, in other words, that 70% is entirely enough - because you all have enough together to ensure a positive outcome of the referendum. I'll personally believe they're yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u175	Please, if you finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u176	for then when the score is 85% and above. [[...]] If not, 100% means that your voters are not to enter NATO and that your game is perfectly clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u177	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague, Tonet Anderlich. I'm asking for a little more patience. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u178	The Liberal Democracy Group still has time in common time and should be running after that display, given that you are on the schedule that we received on the table, this is also foreseen because we were reported in the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, including in the proposal for a decree and for the general debate, two other Members were also announced. So there's some misunderstanding on this line. It should also go up because the school was the last to speak - I don't know if it will be, because inside of this I want to have as much as the allocated time was for an individual group of Members to give it to her. Some have taken advantage of it and will now continue the debate in this general, but others have not. It's already happened. But that's not why I called. I thank all those who have given me so much attention today as not for a long time. It rarely happens, although it is a completely uncomfortable atmosphere. At least when some of us thought a new time would come when the records would disappear, when the so-called lists would disappear, where those who think otherwise than someone thinks they're right. Or that they would go there just because they might have been a little suspicious at some point or maybe unkind at some point. This obviously occurs in all the brutality today, when I almost have to be afraid of being put on some lists by one, the other, and determined to me what my will is, what my inner mood is, what I think. Please, who am I supposed to be afraid of? Well, I have to be afraid of you because you're threatening that if I don't think as much as you think it will be wrong. What is more, it will be very difficult for you gentlemen to prove something other than that, in all the solutions that this National Assembly has adopted in relation to international ties and also the integration of Slovenia into NATO, there was no voice for those positions and for everything that has happened there - definitely. It will be very difficult to find that the Liberal Democracy in all the elections so far - on the lists of Liberal Democracy I also performed - did not have Slovenia's entry into NATO for one of the basic programme objectives. And in all these elections, the Liberal Democracy, including the voices of me, has won as many votes as it has won, and has always won. And these promises, this program we have brought to an end, to the point where we can say, "Dear citizens and citizens! What we have done together for 10 years, we would now like to check with you whether this is our belief and this our work was so that you trust us that Slovenia is just before the last and that it also takes the last step." I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that only one mistake was made, obviously, or some misunderstanding that it was understood that we urgently needed a referendum by 26 March. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And I made that decision myself. In the Euro-Atlantic so-called Euro-Atlantic coordination - which unfortunately shut down, I don't know why - in the first discussion I said: I'm afraid the matter is poorly prepared for it to be better to have a single referendum itself, and it's subsequent, confirmed when we ratify the treaty. Of course, it was not possible because things were such that we had to send that famous letter and express our clear will there. And, of course, it is different from people to call for them to vote, to be defined on the basis of arguments, that I cannot do either. And that is what I want to do, and by supporting this proposal for a referendum and a decree today, I want people to say, and I will certainly take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Have we exhausted the debate now? Just a moment, I would ask that it be shown how much more time is available for me to give those people a chance to discuss it. Before that, a colleague of Janez Janša answered. He's still two minutes, but I'm five minutes between this fellow Rupar, but this should be deducted from the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u180	Well, I would suggest to the leadership of the National Assembly that it sit down and consider how the Rules of Procedure will be implemented, because it is obvious that what rules apply to the time remaining. Now I would use these two to pass by to tell Mr. Anderlich that we didn't put him on any list. Neither did anyone deal with his inner conviction. What I'm saying here is that I - I don't know, I want someone to hear what I said about the name Anton Anderlich, is that I quoted some of his public statements. [[...]] I'm sorry I cut it short. Now I will also read: "After persistently sending questions and drilling with an answer Anton Anderlič responded with three hands of written words, which he came upon paper in anger: 'I am a natoskeptik'." And he added a signature." Okay. This is a legitimate position in a democratic state. You're a narcussist, and I didn't say anything but what you said about yourself. What I have added is that when someone declares himself a natosceptic, it does not convince me that the natosceptic will do everything to succeed in the referendum on Slovenia going to NATO. Natosceptik - not me, not those who are still undecided - cannot convince that it is good that I am voting for NATO in the referendum. So, is there something wrong with what Mr Anderlich has been saying right now, or is there something wrong with that statement he made? And they are not contrary between me and him, but the contradictions between his two statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. This has also given you time to discuss. LDS has some time left. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u182	I have to replicate with my colleague. I would like to replicate Janez Janša, who obviously wants to expel skeptics from Slovenia. The skeptic society is condemned to totalitarianism. That's one thing. The other thing is, where did you read that I was against Nate? I have written a number of criticisms about the American role in NATO, but when I thought that the American role was also in war, in the Balkan war, it was positive, but I was very positive about it. But I'm skeptical that only one great little man can control the whole world, so militaryly and politically, and I don't think it's good for democracy, not in Europe, not in the United States, and in the world at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I think we can conclude the debate now, we will find nothing new, and we are moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "A consultative referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty is being held." In this regard, too, the open question of the Foreign Policy Committee, which proposes to the National Assembly, is to adopt an appropriate act prior to the invitation to the referendum, with which it will commit itself to respect the referendum outcome. I believe that in this case, the same conclusion and proposal as we had in the first decision on the decision to join the European Union apply. Is that it? Thank you very much. Now we're going to make a decision, and before that, there's only one explanation for the vote. Roberto Battelli. Mr. Battelli, do you have an explanation of vote or not? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Sometimes we also resent this hall, we also face different views, there is a lot of populism - as many lies as there are, but not always, of course, not always, and that is important. Many decisions have been taken in a very responsible and serious manner. Those who wait for us are such natures. Circumstances have led us to have intimate doubts as to whether it is wise or not to go to a consultation or a confirmation referendum. However, circumstances have led to a probably no alternative to a consultation referendum. Now that this is happening and when it has such a fatal weight, not only for us, but also for the next generation, then probably regardless of who's in power at this point, regardless of who the champion was, but with all due respect for everything - regardless of all these scurvy but yet prestigious things and questions - it would probably be very good for those who want the good [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It would probably be very good for these decisions to be taken with the greatest possible majority. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dusan Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will personally vote in favour of the resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. In particular, because I believe that a referendum should be carried out, regardless of its nature, before the accession procedure in the Member States of NATO begins. Secondly, because I believe that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have expressed their will on such an important issue, and therefore they decide. In doing so, I pledge to respect the will expressed at the referendum irrespective of its outcome. I will respect their decision. In view of the constant indication of the support of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO in the LDS Member Club in this place, I declare and express my clear and unequivocal support for the approach to NATO and that I will vote in the referendum in the same way. I believe there are a number of reasons, both political, security and economic, but I would point out one more. As a veteran of the war on Slovenia, I am still aware of the advantages of the collective security and collective defence system, which we, believe me, police officers, members of the territorial defence, as well as, in my opinion, most of the Slovenes and Slovenes still wanted during the aggression on Slovenia, when this system was not available, but at the same time we hoped and prayed for the assistance of the NATO Member States. As a result, I do not understand how some may have faded from those times. I do not allow my children to be once again in the same position, so I hope and wish that, of course, citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia will vote in favour of the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you. Maria Ana Tisovic, explanation of voice. Please, let's get real again and let's let our colleague perform.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government and colleagues. I have to say I'm terrible at war, and on the other hand, if you're up against war, you have to be safe. I have a bunch of kids and a bunch of grandchildren that I don't care about whether they live safely in Slovenia or not. Because I see the only alternative or the best alternative at this time, in NATO, I will vote for NATO. And everybody knows that most of the time. I am also in favour of a referendum statement by citizens, because this is the most democratic way in which any voter can influence decisions that take place in Slovenia. However, I will vote against this today because this is not a binding but only a consultative referendum. That seems almost pointless to me. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you. Jože Ashitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you. It is because of the consultative referendum that I am happy to vote in favour of this, because this way I will determine whether citizens and citizens, voters and voters share the opinion that we are drawing up in this national assembly. I also take advantage of the possibility that if someone is also a skeptic, they will vote in favour of this decision, and they will probably work for it, because we have no choice but to do so. In particular, I have learned this from the fact that it is no harm or that it is not wrong for anyone to be a skeptic about any matter, for example the European Union. I got this confirmation just over two years ago when we appointed Dr. Bajuk's election to the then government as a prominent Eurosceptic, and he also said that at the hearing before the Internal Policy Committee - Dr. Jambrek, I think. He was, at least I think he was, and he said he was a Eurosceptic, but he was pro-European-oriented to the Slovenian government and he did no harm in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you very much. These were explanations for the voice. I'm also a colleague of Janez Janša's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u192	I will vote against this decision. I regret that those who have the power here, the sufficient number of votes and power and were willing to sacrifice or agree to get at least a few more hours to find a compromise solution, but for various reasons that have been caught here, have decided on an adventurous approach. A decision is taken that will have to be corrected, and any correction is more difficult. I will vote against the fact that this decision is wrong in terms of formal, substantive and even time-consuming terms. And I'm sorry that I'm going to have to repeat those words again and again in the future. And I am also sorry because those who were not prepared to get a few hours of time to find a better solution had a difficult time when instead of being able to find this solution today by taking one step back, someone had to step two steps back or risk the consequences that follow if a negative decision is taken at the referendum on Slovenia's entry into then.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you. My friend Anderlich. Excuse me, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of the decision to call for a referendum, and I also declare that I will respect the decision that will be taken at the referendum. If everyone else had made that statement, the State Assembly would have respected the referendum as it would have to be respected by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u196	I will vote in favour because there have been countless attempts to reach a common agreement for the referendum and because there have been countless attempts made in writing and also some verbally rejected in a number of ways, and because those who have participated in this will also be able to present correspondence publicly. You said even more at the press conference than you really said in the rejection. It is therefore responsible policy that after so long of coordination as it was this time, and yet when citizens have the right to be informed objectively, not in the agitpropo way, and the time available from the call for a referendum and date setting will be devoted to all the things that have been spoken of here today, that there is no confidence that someone does not want, in short, that those who now speak that they are in favour are in fact against. There are various data on the preference of voters, so-called ones or other parties to a particular project. Public research is useful to guide a person, but it is certainly not intended to show with a finger whose constituents are for something and whose customers are for something else or oppose it. I am convinced that the very invitation to this referendum is an opportunity for all citizens and citizens who want to know everything, the government and the committee to act in an objective manner to present all the facts for and against, to do what needs to be done: to inform people, to trust them, and they will certainly make the right decision. Their conscience must be respected. But I don't want the force to go one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you. I can now also conclude my explanations of vote. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "A consultative referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty is being held." That motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 54 votes against 11. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the motion for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty, which was submitted to the assembly by the Foreign Policy Committee and adopted as an annex to the Committee's report as working material. The rapporteur does not want any further explanation and a word. However, we have before us the same content of the amendment to point 18B as was the case in the preliminary decision of the European Union. That is why we will put this to the debate first. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups that have applied on the motion for a decree. LDS first, Anton Anderlich? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the text to the Members and Members of Parliament. Kacin tree? [[He's not here.]] Joseph Scholch? [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled. Of course, we don't have an examination because we only have one amendment. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. I will put the amendment to the vote. We vote on the amendment proposal. There are 65 of us present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now also deciding on the full proposal for a decree. We are therefore moving on to a proposal for a resolution on the call for an advisory referendum on the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty. I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 53 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 10.]] This decree has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. My colleagues and I have some work to do at today's session. We're moving to SUGGEST 3. Periods of the day, that's the third defensively proposed law on graduation. On Tuesday, 28.01.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the bill. You have received a review of the amendments adopted and the articles of the amended law to which the amendments were adopted on the bench. Does the representative of the government want a word in this regard? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups on the draft law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. The draft law is being discussed by Members and Members. Do any of the Members and Members want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. There aren't any. Consistency - no warning. The government representative, is the law in line?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u198	Mr President, I would like to give only one explanation on the procedure for the protection of the rights of candidates.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u199	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and honourable Members! With regard to the procedure for the protection of the rights of candidates at the general and professional graduations, a certain interpretation would be given. The procedure for the protection of the rights of candidates at the general and professional graduations is in fact different. This is due to conceptual differences between the general and professional graduations, as well as to differences in the implementation of the two diplomas. A state examination centre shall carry out views of the general graduation at the written request of the applicant. The implementation of the review process requires a lot of preparatory work, logistics and expertise, as candidates from all over Slovenia come to the state centre. However, views of the examination documentation at the vocational graduation are taken at a school where the candidates are actually performing the graduation. The candidates shall submit the following day, following a review by the School Graduate Commission, which shall decide on the candidate’s objection on the basis of the opinion of the committee appointed by the President of the School Graduate Commission. There is an objection to the evaluation at school, as there is also an evaluation at the vocational school. The procedure for objecting to an assessment at the general graduation is significantly different, resulting from the fact that the evaluation at the general graduation is external and central within the framework of the state examination centre. Objections to the evaluation shall be resolved by the national GSC on the basis of an expert’s written opinion. However, the experts shall be experts who shall review all the candidates’ field of examination and justify in writing their statement in the objection and justify their assessment. According to that Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the procedure for the protection of the rights of candidates in law is properly regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-01-30-SDZ3-Redna-22.ana.u201	The law is therefore in line with this explanation and we can move on to a decision. I am putting the proposal for the law on graduation to a full vote. We're voting! There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all for your cooperation. Good night and a nice weekend!
