ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u1	Fellow Members, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, have a nice day. I begin the continuation of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings: Jože Ašič, Samo Bevk from 2.30 p.m. on, Ivan Bozič, Stanislav Brenčič, Franc Čebulj, Marko Diaci, Dorian Maršič, Geza Juban, Zoran Gračner from 3 p.m. on, Ivan Kebric, Yuri Malovra, Rudolf Petan, Alojz Peterle, Valentin Pohorec, Igor Štemberger from 3 p.m. on and Villa Trophynik. We're moving on to 12. Period of day and order - it's on a defensive proposal for a decision to change the decision to reshape the university in love. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the government representative for further explanation of the draft decree, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. The government is proposing to Parliament the adoption of a decree amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. The change is relatively simple, of course, and very important for two institutions, two colleges becoming colleges, we receive a college for social work and a university for administration. I suggest we confirm this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Petr Levič, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Report of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport on the proposal for a decree amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. On the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, we held a debate on the proposal for a decision amending the decree. In addition to the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the legislative service, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the University of Ljubljana, the University of Maribor, the University of Primorska and the Council for Higher Education in the Republic of Slovenia were also invited. In its opinion of 13.2.2003, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the inadequate provisions of Articles 5, 8 and 9. At the meeting itself, the representative found that the proposed amendments addressed these shortcomings. Mr Slavko Gaber, representative of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, explained that the purpose of the amendment of the decision on the transformation of two higher schools, members of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty, changes in certain fields of study and certain titles. In the debate on the amendments tabled, the Committee supported the amendments of the LDS Group of Members, the United Nations Letter Group and the DeSUS Group of Members addressed to Articles 1, 8 and 9. The Committee drafted and adopted the following amendment to Article 5: "As of the date of the implementation of this Decision, the membership of the University of Ljubljana, the High School for Social Work and the High Administrative School have been transformed into the Faculty of Social Work and the Faculty of Administration." After the discussion and the vote on the amendments were concluded, the majority-defined committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana should be adopted together with amendments supported or proposed by the Committee." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I must commend this proposal for a law amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, which we fully support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - no Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In our party we welcome the proposal for a decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana, which provides for the establishment of two new faculties: the Faculty of Social Work and the Faculty of Administration. Thus, at least for the further part of the school year 2004 and 2005, we will be able to stop doing wrongs to graduates and graduates of the High School for Social Work, who are now ordered by the current curriculum to receive 4 years of education for higher education and undergraduate education, even though only 3 years of education is provided for in the Higher Education Act. Students and students of social work listened to promises to start a university program in the first half of the 1990s. The 1997 National Higher Education Programme of the Republic of Slovenia also stated that it was exceptional and until a similar study programme for university education was implemented, a study programme for obtaining higher vocational education for 4 years or 8 semesters. This is from the rapporteur, number 58, December 11, 1997. This year's study invitation is already published. I am now essentially interested in whether graduates and graduates of the higher education of social work will be able to carry out a differential programme in the upcoming school work for the fourth year of university education for social work. That is why I propose to Mr Gabru that it be possible for graduates and graduates of the higher education for social work to be able to carry out a differential programme for obtaining a university title in the school year 2003/2004. Since 1939, the Higher School for Social Work has been implementing a higher education programme, which is exactly the same as today's proposed university, both by content and by duration - 4 years plus graduate. We must not forget that this makes it impossible for a large number of graduates and graduates to continue their postgraduate studies without distraction - Master's degree and doctoral. This is now, except for one exception, disabled. So the science of socialism will soon no longer have its own kind, but will be subordinated to the lecturers of other social programmes. I am really interested in whether, after all this, graduates and graduates have been able to obtain the title of a university-graduate social worker in the coming school year, as it would not be appropriate to lose another year before they can become university-educated, even though they have practically completed this programme. This is only because we decide on the decision today, not before the outcome of the invitation to enroll in higher education institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the decree amending the decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. We believe that international competition requires excellent knowledge and competence, which can only be provided in an innovative environment. Increasing the share of citizens and citizens through university education is a priority that we have defined in the development documents of Slovenia. This is a transition to a knowledge-based society in strategic documents, with a focus on the national higher education programme and the law on research and development activities, the economic development strategy and the national development programme supported by the following mechanisms: human resources development policy, labour market policy and employment related to migration policy, the building of information and communication infrastructure and the development of new services and research and technological development. The desired objectives must be achieved through some development-oriented legislative changes that have taken place in higher education mainly in the past decade. Thus, in 1993 a law on higher education was passed in the National Assembly and a year later a decree on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana and the University of Maribor was adopted. At the same time, changes to higher education legislation are also taking place in the redesign of study programmes. This is also followed by a decree amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana. The decree provides for the transformation of the Higher School of Social Work into the Faculty of Social Work and the High Administrative Schools into the Faculty of Administration. The proposal for amendments to the decree further aligns the text with the financial rules, governs the transition of the students of the two higher schools in college and the tasks of the dean and other authorities after conversion. The amendments tabled by the three coalition groups are worded as follows: amendment to the title of the High School for Social Work in Article 1, editorial corrections and editorial corrections based on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in Articles 9 and 9, which provide that all bodies shall be established within three months of the adoption of this Decision in accordance with the law, regulation and statute, under the assumption that all tasks shall be carried out by the authorities so far, except for the adoption of university, master and doctoral study programmes. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the motion for a decree, together with the amendments created by or supported by the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Janez Podobnik has been notified that he will present the position of the SLS Group but is not among us. Messengers and Members who have made themselves known to the word - there are none. Does the government want a word? Not at all. I therefore conclude the general debate on the proposal for a decree. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.3.2003. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the LDS House of Members and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 5 and the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. Anybody want a word? Not at all. I'm closing the debate. I am placing in the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the three groups of Members. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the same three parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. And an amendment on the title. I am giving the title and the amendment of the two groups of Members to the title in the debate. Anybody want a word? Not at all. So I conclude the debate. We will vote today at 4 p.m. on the amendments and the motion for a decree in full accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much for your cooperation, Mr Minister and Mrs Undersecretary of State. I am adjourning the meeting until 10.35 hours when we move on to the 14th item of the agenda, this is to the debate on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Mumorr, to Mr Ivan Kebric's question on the presentation of wage movements by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. At 10.35 a.m., then, the meeting will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're moving to 14. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - The debate on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dushan Morra, to the business question of Ivan Kebric of showing the loss of salary on the side of the statistical government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Minister, with my fellow workers, I welcome you very much! At the 23rd meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response submitted by the Minister of Finance, Dr Dušan Maramor, to the question of Mr. Ivan Kebric, on the presentation of wage movements by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, I give my word to Mr. Ivan Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u13	Hello! Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, your co-workers, as well as Mr. Kuhelj from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, respected colleagues and colleagues! The proof that your answers, Mr. Minister-respected, were not satisfactory and that the question of wages is not only interesting but also very current, is evidence of my proposal to hold a debate at a meeting of the National Assembly, as this proposal was voted on by 58 Members and Members present and voted against only 2. So now we have a debate on salaries and I will in the introduction point out the problems of these from different perspectives. The definition of salary from the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary is as follows: "the salary is the sum that employees get for their work for certain periods." Thus we have a monthly salary earned in the past month, which is being paid in the current month. Of course, this is very important because it takes a delay to do your job, but you only get it after work, next month or even never. Payments may also be made in shorter periods, weekly or 14 days, that is known mainly by certain companies abroad, but we knew this when we were active, before World War II. However, a particular problem has also been inadequate for longer periods, as I have already mentioned, that someone or an employee who has done well has earned his salary, has not received it or has obtained it with a large or multi-week, multi-month delay or, as has already been said, never if the company goes bankrupt. And the term "earning" says what you've earned by doing some work, a job that's paid off in money. Here, too, it is possible that part of the payout of this earnings is in nature, even though it is a very broad concept, as we are also speaking and know the side earnings, the occasional earnings, and so on. I'm moving to the core of the problem. The Office of Statistics covers gross salaries containing - I have obtained original forms on which the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia covers and shows not only gross and net wages, but also their cumulation and their movement of the Office of Statistics sends forms every month and the rapporteurs have to complete these forms. However, the salaries following this form are: for the reporting month, for full-time and full-time work, for shorter or longer than full-time work, the remuneration of gross wages from the company, or the company. the organisation, annual leave allowance, sick leave up to 30 days, work without fault of employees, paid absences and the like, outstanding payments and allowances for the preceding months, if not paid, remuneration for past work, incentive allowances, prizes, bonuses, gross salary after periodic account and final account. Since the time of the basic presentation has unfortunately run out, in the remaining 20 minutes I will show you, Mr Minister, only or only 8 ways in which gross wages are played and how we should capture them and assume that we will gladly accept amendments to the laws or new provisions that you will submit when you hear these 8 cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you very much, proposer. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Pache doesn't want it, Mr. Petty Officer doesn't have it. Mr. Ivan Kebrich. You are next in line to continue to present the position of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u15	Just a little more on the contribution. A contribution is a sum of money or something you can do for anything. In our case, however, we will consider contributions on salary which are legally prescribed in stages for different purposes, such as for the health insurance institution, for pension, disability insurance and so on. Here I'm going to tell you how and why sometimes there's very little left in the bankruptcy, after the bankruptcy, for wages. Perhaps someone will object that this has nothing to do with the problem of wages, which is exactly what I will now prove to be the opposite with the following examples. Mr Minister, how is it possible - whether you are aware of the following cases when one bankruptcy manager runs 36 bankruptcy proceedings, 21 bankruptcy managers ran 33% or around 3,000 bankruptcys simultaneously. The delay in bankruptcy proceedings, in view of the insolvency administrator’s payment, which is of course not small, consumes the bankruptcy mass and therefore remains, when bankruptcy is completed, very little for the gross salaries of those employees who have been deprived of a full amount of it and receive only a few. And this is directly linked to salaries, because from that supplement, taxes and contributions I was talking about were paid. The Labour Relations Act commands employees to be paid in cash for their work - Article 126 of the current law. This is often done and part of the salary is paid in a variety of ways, such as vouchers, free housing, nutrition and various other ratings, which should all go to a gross salary. The Statistical Office shall cover gross salaries on the basis of a representative sample of around 23,000 company observation units. They shall send each month specific forms, monthly report on salaries and employees in companies, companies and organisations required by the State Statistics Act, Official Journal No. 45/95 and 9/2001, return completed within a specified period. However, only 600,000 employees in the statistical review of the pension and disability insurance institution are subject to this, and at the end of 2002 only 815,240 persons are considered insured. This data is used for their monthly statistical report on gross and net salary movements, which is transmitted by the month 15. This model does not cover independent entrepreneurs and others self-employed, such as notaries, lawyers, independent advisors, architects and so on. The model of the Statistics Office covers the following data: gross salary paid, net salary paid, overtime, gross salary paid 13 and possible 14., the number of employees receiving payment and payment for overtime, the number of all paid hours and overtime, the number of all employees. According to the new Bureau of Statistics, a double calculation was launched on 1 January this year. The first includes the average wages of the Republic of Slovenia as before, i.e. without small entrepreneurs, while the second includes indices of average wages in private enterprises with one or two employees in self-employed entities. Here I must point out that, in all EU countries, the core does not cover such companies in wage-moving statistics. Some countries even up to 5 no, some up to 10 and England up to 11. Only Portugal and the Netherlands cover all companies. Why am I saying this? The inclusion of these small enterprises in the common wage register would mean, calculated round, a 5% drop in the average gross wage. This cannot possibly be acceptable, and I would like to allow you, Mr Minister, to warn yourself that you are not thinking in this direction. I will give 8 ways to avoid taxes on wages and at the same time to contribute, because everything else should represent gross wages. For this reason, the gross salary shown in the report of the Statistics Office is not the correct term or real number of this gross salary, which is the average in Slovenia. First of all, it's a voucher payment. I declare that payment in vouchers, which should be part of the gross salary under all the rules, I don't mean, but those vouchers that are paid in nature, either for lunch or the like. Certain companies that for such and other reasons avoid paying taxes and contributions in this way are simply paying part of the salary in cash, part of the salary in the vouchers. The truths of love are some poorly standing companies to do so under the term "fully forced", because otherwise they would have major problems or even have to go bankrupt, and thus get rid of the worst. However, the payment in the vouchers is, of course, to the detriment of employees and all those citizens of the institutional sector, and of course also pensioners who are linked to movement, this is a gross wage increase which is fundamental to the coordination and increase of these pensions, social benefits and so on. If, in certain cases, they were prevented from paying in the vouchers, of course, gross wages would increase, and this would certainly benefit employees if their gross wages were basic, for example, for the period of leave, sick, and not least for the pension base, where their vouchers do not count as gross wages and thus do not have the correct picture of gross wages. Christmas. Christmas houses are not part of the gross salary, since they have not been paid either taxes or contributions and are thus not included in the amount of gross wages and are not covered by the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia in its data on wage movements, nor as gross or net. However, it is true that the Bureau of Statistics has these data because it specifically covers them in other statistics and research under the heading "work costs". Third time. Payments to the second pillar, supplementary pension insurance. A particular problem that reduces gross wages is payments to the second pillar, which is an additional voluntary pension insurance, since these payments to both employer and employee for their contribution are not considered to be gross. I regret that time does not allow this matter to be explained more extensively, but it is also extremely interesting for employees, as the question of how much it will actually pay them after so many years for additional insurance, given the amount that will be taken into account in the calculation of the pension base for these allowances, is certainly lower because they have not been taken into account. This represents no more and no less than 2% after some calculations. Now, if this were to be counted in one way or another, this would be even more so in the future, because at present there are only slightly below 200,000 insured in supplementary pension insurance, and on the other hand, it is considered that all of this would be profitable for the second pillar, if it were for additional pension and disability insurance for participants or payers of at least 400,000, that is half of the active or employees. Payments to the second pillar, I reiterate, are extremely important for the coordination of all social and pensions. Author's fees. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who will listen will hear what is happening to these things. They represent a special way to replace a purely legal part of gross wages. Certain works in companies, as well as in institutions, are supposed to be carried out differently in jobs, but the company thus avoids paying taxes and contributions and simply conclude copyright contracts that are minimally taxed and thus do not go into gross pay - or simply concludes, as I said, the copyright contract and this contract brings great benefits to the executor and benefits, as I said, also to the company. Contracts on the ground. The previous Labour Relations Act knew the contract for additional work, but now the law in force no longer knows it, but it does know the business contracts, which mean that a particular work is done under this contract, either for physical or mental work or for services, and we cannot talk about gross wages, but it is how gross wages or wages are made. Independent entrepreneurs - because we are talking about salaries, we are talking not only about it, but it is essential: these are, according to certain data, over 20,000, who employ from one to two employees, charge them minimum wages, and pay them extra in cash - as we say, under a table or under a hand - or in other ways, either on a daily account, a kilometer, a representational cost, a variety of orders or accounts up to 20,000, which they exhibit and can raise from cash. Of course, the total amount for such an employee may seem to be even more favourable at the moment, but what about the amount at the time of leave, hospital or retirement, which, unfortunately, young people do not think. How it is possible to create cash is certainly familiar to you, sir, with the Minister. That there are special cash registers that issue them an account as they should be, and that they show purely other amounts inside the computer, and that in the evening when the entrepreneur works the account has a significantly lower amount registered than was actually cashed or cashed, according to his own household. What does that mean? This means creating that cash, which then serves to pay, as I said, under my hand. The key point is this: how do we account for the number of tickets at various celebrations, as well as other events, such as the lower number of tickets, while the remaining money is used to pay to those who do certain things at such events, such as renting or serving guests. Surely you are familiar with the Minister, but the tax administration does not have enough inspectors, does not have enough of its qualified people to properly control all this and, of course, also sanction it on the spot. How is it possible, Mr. Minister, that independent entrepreneurs have more than 100 million jobs and a billion, but they do not have any regular employees? Let us ask ourselves how they work. But I said that there are authors' fees, that there are other contracts, and that there are different ways to avoid all of this, and that there are different ways to avoid it, and that it is paid, as it is called, by money. Finally, Mr Minister, free artists and other independent professions, notaries, lawyers, various advisers and so on. They serve quite good money, and they charge minimum wages and thus avoid paying proper contributions and taxes on salaries. Why am I talking about proper contributions? Could it not be possible to adopt a legal provision that such ones should also pay an appropriate gross salary on the basis of income generated or income declared? This is where the system is played, because for the last 18 years, if it's to be loved or paid, they'll be charging higher wages and earning a higher pension base. However, many others, too, would have and should pay what is different for taxes and tax administrations on the basis of past traffic, prescribes a certain tax rate last year, but, as I said, we should consider forcing such tax administrations to pay their gross wages and, of course, the State would also receive taxes and, of course, both institutions. I'm going to say one last thing about student services. In principle, let me say that I will not be misunderstood or that someone will set me up. I don't mind working through student services, because students who have turned 15 years of age have been involved. Now I have read in the paper that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has arranged and we hope to agree on certain ways that there will be no more manipulations and plays in one way or another. Since I'm going to have a few more minutes to do this, I'm going to say here, because I'm running out of time, just because student services are doing 35 billion traffic. If we were to share this with hours when the average is an hour, say, 800 tolars, that's 43,000 hours. As many other people as possible, if only 25% of the work being done, when they are pretending to be on maternity leave, is hired instead of a certain period of one year or as long as the maternity leave for that person lasts, it is played with compensation, such as student service, which I will explain in particular below. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. The development of entrepreneurship in Slovenia has led not only to better shifts in terms of market liberalisation, but also to various financial distortions, both of the newly created small businesses, with only a few employees, as well as large, already existing companies with a large number of employees. The reduction in labour costs, which is one of the most important costs, especially in labour intensive industries, has become a condition for business survival. The search for different legal solutions to avoid greater tax burdens on businesses has become almost necessary. Employment of workers for a certain period of time through various employment contracts, payment of salaries at travel costs, money per hand and other financial frauds have become so well known to all entrepreneurs that regular employment and regular pay is almost an exception. By amending legislation, the country is constantly trying to ban and prevent employers from doing so. One such law is also a new law on employment relations. There is also an amendment to tax legislation. As the minister mentioned at the previous meeting, there is also a new law on income in preparation. On the other hand, the State imposes on employers the payment of taxes, such as taxes on salaries paid, which they do not know in any European country, and only increases labour costs. In his question, Mr Kebrič specifically highlighted the payment of salaries to workers in the form of vouchers that employees can use to purchase basic needs. Of course, they are not covered by the statistical billing of salaries, but they are in income. I don't know how this new income law is going to change this irregularity, at least that's how I understood the Minister's response to the previous meeting. However, we must be aware that any legislative change will force businesses to find new and new ways to avoid additional tax burdens and cost increases, which unfortunately always ends at the expense of workers, including in the payment of contributions and pension benefits. From the beginning, the Youth Party has been reminded of the major shortcomings of pension reform. Due to an unfinished pension system that allows a large number of entrepreneurs to display a smaller official salary such as their actual benefits and thus lower pension benefits, they are particularly harmful to workers and the country is passive. Days ago, we were able to read an interesting article about the incomes of the people of one of the poorest municipalities, according to official information, and in real life, everything looks like poverty. But no one's reacting. There are more cases like this. In our view, the solution to these irregularities is to amend the legislation and then enforce the rules consistently, prosecute and punish offenders. That's the government's job. The government has also been asked this question, and probably not without a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the answer to the question of how the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia covers salaries or payments and how it identifies the average gross and net salary, on which the valorisation of pensions also depends, is very important. This issue has been highlighted even more recently, as there was no increase in pensions more than a year before the conclusion of the day. No wonder the pensioners warn that wages are growing and that if wages are growing, pensions should also be growing, and this is not happening or happening. In response, Minister Maramor gave a few clarifications on how the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia covers salary data. He noted that the methodology for wage monitoring allows for wage capture in companies, companies and organisations, with the exception of private companies with one or two employees, and that these companies also started to be covered by the Statistics Office in November 2002. The salary data shall cover all paid full-time, full-time, full-time, shorter or longer than full-time, annual leave, paid leave, public holidays, hospital leave up to 30 days, professional education fees, work-free breaks and other forms of paid absences, benefits for past work, allowances, bonuses, bonuses and periodic account receipts and final account receipts. All of this comes together in the calculation of the average wage, or all of this includes statistics on average wages. This mass does not include reimbursement of material costs, transport and nutrition allowances, daily subsistence allowance, kilometres, or annual leave allowance of up to 70% of the average wage. Statistics also monitor separately the payment of thirteen wages or Christmases that have been in place in recent years, but the latest statistics also show us that on average less than 10% of employees in Slovenia still receive Christmas wages or 13th salary, as well as the amounts of payments themselves, which on average are slightly over 11,000 tolerable to the employee, cannot have a significant impact on the level of the average wage. So what is wrong with the feeling that the active population is increasingly earning, as is seen in spending, and statistics on average wages do not show enough growth to increase pensions. The Bureau of Statistics takes into account all available data and income in salary capture according to methodology, but for pensioners there is a feeling that statistics constitute a mix of a number of data from which the interested party can choose the data suitable for daily use. Therefore, in calculating the valorisation of pensions, the State should choose such data as would cause pensions to be lagging behind salaries. We do not share this view in the United List of Social Democrats, but we believe that, in addition to the issue of statistical coverage of wage data or other incomes, the active population from which contributions to the pension fund are to be collected is, in recent times, an extremely important issue of the relationship of employees and employers to the payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. We note what the Finance Minister has also pointed out in his reply that taxpayers are increasingly moving from the tax-burdened categories of income to the less burdened categories of income. In doing so, it is particularly worrying to see more and more the daily rejection of pension insurance in the first pension pillar, which is built on intergenerational solidarity. There is no doubt that the ratio of young people to regular employment and to benefits, from which contributions are paid for pension and disability insurance, as young people, especially better educated ones, often do not whiten their heads with their pensions, but are particularly interested in the greatest possible incomes today and this income, of which the minimum wage is paid. Therefore, it is not uncommon for young people to continue to work through a student service or through regular employment, where employers pay minimum wages and in fact pay higher incomes in cash and past taxes and contributions. It is true that in such a case the employee also loses the possibility of an appropriate high pension for his age, but obviously this is no longer a priority in younger generations. The continuation of such a trend will lead to even greater problems in public finances in the future, as the shortfall in pension funds will have to be replaced from the budget, which, while reducing the number of contributors to disability and pension insurance and increasing the number of pensioners, may represent an extremely high proportion of the budget for these purposes. In any event, this situation, which is taking place in a change in the attitude towards pension and disability insurance in younger generations, and in particular in the case of those employees who have large capital and other incomes and who are not so important in terms of solidarity with regular pensions, because they have social security for their old age in their wealth, will have to be thoroughly examined and prepared appropriate professional and political answers to these difficult questions. If we fail to stop these behavioural trends, the social cohesion of society will be compromised in the coming decades, when the capital-retirement insurance of the second and third pillars will not yet provide sufficient social security to many new pensioners after the current shelter on pension and disability insurance. The United List of Social Democrats therefore supports all the debates that further explain the capture of statistics on average salaries, which are also subject to average pensions, and we believe that the social movements that we are pursuing in relation to the payment of the tax burdens on employees and other taxpayers will also need to be examined. The questions raised by Members and Members of Parliament call for answers and, of course, we expect them in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Moreover, the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Minister's response to the question raised was understood to be quite sufficient, as it could be. This debate was logical; whoever is following the efforts or the great appetites and also the expectations of pensioners that a leaked system of coordination should be pursued, which was an indexation for each period foreseen by the law, with coordination. We decided by law to establish a methodology, and it is not possible for pensions to grow faster than wages. God forbid that would happen! The current pressure on the necessary money from the state budget to ensure the established scope of rights is such that our national economy cannot, as a rule, manage it at the expense of other matters. Therefore, I think it is quite appropriate to coordinate pensions with salaries in the last few periods when pensions have not been raised, because there has been no established condition, entirely appropriate and normal. I myself support the intention of the proposer of this debate to determine, after all, whether the capture of statistics is actually in the light of the expected data affecting wage growth, and I think this must be because it cannot be otherwise. If that's not the case, then it's the organ that has to make an order. Otherwise, I'd say the following. There has been no wage growth in the whole range of labour intensive industries in recent years. The increase in pensions is in line with the average of pensions and the wages in a professional position are lagging far behind, the wages of the current active employee for the pensioner who retired from this job yesterday. This is a unique case almost in the world. Therefore, something still needs to be addressed in this area and the issue of the state of the pension system. And I don't mean to say that the pension is too low, but the system as such is cruel to an active employee who has to pay a heavy part of the salary from his small salary, such as the pension of the one he replaced there. Therefore, we look unharmedly at the fact that, according to the pensioners' expectations, pensions have not been harmonised three times - when the condition arose, they have been harmonised, and nothing else can be further. It would be very bad for this society if pensions were to grow anywhere faster than wages. And also capturing the conditions of the pension base in the calculation of the wage-based ratios on average for today is not fair. The average wage rises steadily, the more varied structure of the highly educated workforce, which affects the average, while all the medium-sized staff and, above all, the production workers are in many, as I have said, the sectors are strong in condition - when the second, third year or the regression is not received. It's never happened that one of the pensioners wouldn't get the regress. Thus, this debate, at least personally to me, as well as to the majority of the Group of Members, is somehow totally unnecessary, completely unnecessary. Because expectations and appetites in this case were too high for pensioners. I've also told a lot of people who've been talking to me. We have decided on the methodology and this methodology has been implemented in accordance with the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a debate between Members and Members in the order in which they have notified themselves - Mr Drobnič, who is not, Mr Kebrič, unfortunately you are running out of time, but at the end of the debate I will obviously find that there is still time available, and I think that you will still be able to say what you want. Mr. Miran Potch? You don't want to. Mr. Mogue? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I am glad that this debate has taken place, mainly because of the fact that I am paraphrasing a little bit, sometimes you were suspicious if you had anything, the times have changed, and you're suspicious if you don't have anything. And in this sense, there will also be a complement to what colleague Kebrič is principles in my speech. Debates on salaries, taxes and untaxed earnings need, in addition to the statistical in-depth treatment of salaries themselves, which the Minister last presented, also the possibility of related monitoring and other incomes or the entire assets of Slovenian households. This includes the values of movable, immovable and financial assets of households. At its last meeting in March 2003, the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia also addressed the issue of monitoring - from Parliament you elected colleague Veliščkova and me there. The Council took note of the overall issue in this area, including the course of the project financed by the World Bank and whose task is to establish a particularly appropriate environment for registering quality statistics. In particular, some tasks, such as mass valuation of real estates, are moving back to 2005. The Statistical Council has assessed that, according to the data, at least at the level of assessments, it is necessary before this year and will therefore propose to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate the work of the special inter-ministerial group in the preparation of relevant data for discussions in the EU and, in particular, to support policies at home. The Statistical Council therefore recommends that the Statistical Office be actively involved in this work and that this debate is also one of these activities. Why am I referring to assets and their valuation? When we discuss salaries and other incomes, I must take into account that individuals and households have not only measurable or estimated monetary revenues, but also financial and other movable and immovable assets. The warning shall apply in particular to three sets. First set of household capital investments, such as shares, bonds, financial assets in banks and insurance undertakings, and elsewhere, including loans that households have given or repaid. Second: property and value of their common movable property, such as cars, artistic paintings, art, other collections and so on. And thirdly: property and use of properties such as housing, land and the like. In addition to the market values of real estates [[The most important are apartments and residential buildings]] significant statistical indices of the transport or market value of real estates, which are also to be adjusted over a quarter of time due to the nature and use and to be adequately territorialised, by region and by location. The task is important due to the need for social justice at the projected property taxes in 2005. Following the debate already mentioned on the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia, matters are likely to move through the study, but it is also good to establish appropriate policies in the government and among ministers and to coordinate work on reform of the entire tax legislation. I think that statistics are that fundamental stone, which is the basis for reforming tax legislation and the prerequisite for somehow regulating such tax legislation in such a way that it is also transparent or that its objective will be seen at the end. The recommendations of the OECD and the United Nations are known. A property-based tax liability must be used as a basis for possible compensation; however, for motorways we purchase at daily or forced prices. So we have more property values, in fact, tax, land register, cadastral, qualitative and so on, we do not have only traffic or market value. As a result, ladies and gentlemen, the debate initiated by colleague Kebric is good enough to consider the wage monitoring policy in the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia: if we took into account in this statistics the wages of those who have one or two employees, it would be that the average level of wages would be reduced, which means that the policy of those who have one or two employees is that, "give the country as little as possible, we will do better." In this sense, respected colleagues and colleagues, if there is a need for this in the National Assembly or if you wish, we are prepared in the Statistical Council to present methodological solutions, if necessary, in the National Assembly and to speak more broadly about State statistics as specific points. He is looking at what was triggered by colleague Kebrich, but he is not giving us enough opportunity to have a comprehensive view of this, he has only triggered some sort of trifle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, would you like another word? Sorry, Mr Rokavac is not among us, nor is Mr Bajuk, Mr Pohorc, Mr Podobnik. Mr Sok, Mr Lenko - Sorry, you will report later, the Group of Members has already exceeded the time stated. I ask the Minister, does he want a word? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Last time I tried to be as precise as possible in this response, I would like to reiterate. All decisions, regulations, laws have financial implications. However, the Ministry of Finance does not have powers in all areas. So I would ask you once again, when you have such topics as wages, this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior as regards public sector wages. The Bureau of Statistics is also not part of the Ministry of Finance and is also applicable to the bankruptcy procedure that you have expressed your reservations about. This is within the framework of the law under the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. I wouldn't want to go into these areas because they're not in my jurisdiction. For the last time, I just wanted to say that the answer would be as comprehensive as possible. The area of the Ministry of Finance is taxes and partial contributions, I fully agree. In connection with this collection of taxes and contributions, I have tried for the last time to give an answer to what is covered and perhaps I will repeat it again. What, although required by other laws, they put in the Social Security Contributions Act, which is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, is also this paragraph in Article 3, which reads: "No matter what the first and second paragraphs of this Article, and whatever the law provides, they pay..." - and here it is important - 'debtors of social security contributions also from all other benefits from the labour relationship, including incentives and ratings, and reimbursement of costs in respect of work paid in cash, in vouchers or in nature, except', then, those who are excluded, these are severance payments paid for termination of employment, for operational reasons and, of course, what has already been said today. [[...]] What the Ministry of Finance has tried to do before me when you have also accepted this law in Parliament to be included as fully as possible in the payment of contributions all that follows from the working relationship. With regard to the other elements that you listed, with respect to the author's fees, the contracts of work. This was also true of what I said the last time that we noticed that they were trying to move, as the youth representative said they were trying to move taxpayers into those forms where taxes were as low as possible. In this regard, I would just say that we are preparing a new legislation that will be comprehensive and will essentially try to capture this flow. However, I warn you, this is a relatively small - authorial fee of 2.2%, and the contract work of 1.4%, total income from work and authorial fees and contracts of work, are also other ratings, only vouchers are 0.03% of all that is in nature, etc., I have too little time to explain everything, but we will try to do so by amending tax legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Kebrič, as a proposaler, you have another 5 minutes of this work at your disposal, and then we will conclude the debate and ask who else would like to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, I agree with you in part. The second part is important if you have listened to me, because I am aware that there is no way to discuss this with a statement or a statement by the Group of Members. However, this debate today is not a matter of pensions. This debate today is a matter of wages and salaries for employees. There's no salary to clear our minds. But I disagree with you on something, and I stress why we have raised this issue for you. It is for you, for those reasons, that the three cases that you mentioned that we were talking about, not what is involved in what we were doing, but what should be covered, which is not covered. And since the tax administration also belongs in your area, many of the points of withdrawal of my implementation are precisely for this case of wage movement. In view of the opinions expressed as they were, and none of the debaters, either of you mentioned any element or argument on my 8 implementations of cases, that is to say, they were all on pay. None of my elements talked about pensions, about the reconciliation of pensions. I have only said that it is up to the wage movement, on their growth, to the entire social sector, which is linked to certain incomes from this title, including pensions. These were my only words from this segment, and I do not allow anyone to undermine me and otherwise to hold my debate, which was triggered and the echo was suitable for wages and nothing else. I can also say this, because he spoke on his own behalf, I fully agree that this is just one segment of all statistics. However, this segment is important and that is why I have initiated this debate and also colleagues, fellow Members, agreed that we are talking about the salaries of those who are employed and those who are not employed but should be paid because they are doing something, but they are getting money, cash, in hand, and unfortunately they are silent, because the law that speaks, Mr Minister on Labour Relations says that the wages must be paid in money. I said why certain companies, in one way or another, were allegedly "forced" to pay in vouchers that the charges under this heading were lower. How is it possible that there are 100 million companies without one employee? There's a problem. Why can't we just force him to have employees, if he's doing this traffic, because he doesn't do it, I don't want to name anyone from up there or down there. But the key problem is that this legislation allows for other and different ways of paying for it. I said one of the ways or two I said how to create money so that it could be paid on hand, on all taxes, on all contributions and on everything that should also be recovered or otherwise sanctioned in a regulated country. I think time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I conclude the first part, the debate is being held in the context of the notified Members and Members. However, since the time for this item and the debate has not yet expired, I ask, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, who else would like to discuss it. Please raise your hand right now. Mr. Lenko, Mr. Moge. Anyone else? Mr. Secretary, perhaps you? Would you like that? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much. Three of them checked in. First, Mr Lenko, then Mr Moge and Mr Minister at the end. Here you go, Mr. Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister with his team, colleagues and fellow Members. I did not intend to comment then on the debate, because I think that the question of the Member of the delegation was clearly raised a month ago and today is well-founded. However, Mr Brenčič, a fellow Member who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, encouraged me to take a call. In fact, a fellow Member who spoke on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group missed the topic of the debate. It was not the last time the question was raised, the pension, but there was what is included in the salary, how statistics come to pay, which, as a result, also affect pensions. Today, too, the address of the subject, or agenda item, does not say anything about pensions. I do not think that such a debate was then appropriate with or to the content of the agenda and also the question of the mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. A replica of Mr. Lenk's performance. Mr. Brenčich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. My debate on behalf of the Group of Members was still quite timely. With my debate, I hit for the purpose or heart of why this debate ever occurred. What would be the basis of this debate is swindling. As pensions had not been harmonised, they found that they paid, in accordance with the law, according to the rules of the game, some opinions were that they should be harmonised because they did not cover the correct data in wages. That's not the only thing. The Minister of Finance has already replied to this question immediately. That is why my debate was still quite timely. Not only in place, my debate has come to the heart of this, which is why today's debate is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica, Mr. Kebrich. Mr. Mogue has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I guess I hit a nail on my head, because in today's system, to run a pay system policy only on a tax that is essentially covered or is the basis of everything on wages alone is the wrong thing. That is why the Minister of Finance, who is sitting here today, will have a huge, huge amount of work to give such a financial model, which will also cover other things, in which also an ignorant colleague of Kebric came in today, when he said, companies almost do not show salaries, but they have huge profits, capital investments, shares, I don't know what kind of things. That's the thing I was talking about today. If anyone is interested, I would strongly recommend that he read the article in "Spiegle" No. 11, dated 10.3.2003, the title is "Abschied von Bissmarck" or "Word of Bissmarck". It is in this article that, as a sweetheart, covers the issues that we have raised in today’s debate. However, I must tell my colleague Kebrich that the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is working fairly well in this area and is also comparable to the European offices. I expected that in today's debate we would touch on the purpose of statistical research, what is "the observation unit", what is "the source", what is "the capture", what is "the way of collecting data", what is "the way of collecting data", what is "the average monthly salary", what is "the index of nominal salaries", what is "the index of real wages", what is "the pension", what is "the average monthly pension", what is "the average monthly pension", what is "the net pension" and what is "the guaranteed personal income" and what is "the published result". But we didn't talk about it. These basic things, which I have just mentioned, are based on the capture of SURS for the calculation of average wages. Even as I said in the introduction that the SURS will also start to cover salaries in companies that have one or two employees, it also points to the anomalies that colleague Kebric had previously said, i.e. that probably in these companies, in terms of, under the terms of, "getting the best profits", wages may not be paid in such a purpose or form as in some large company. As a result, if wages in these small enterprises are substantially below the level of wages in all other companies, it will be necessary to analyse why this is the case or where it is being lost, which was taken care of by counterpart Kebrich, the mass that could have gone to pay. It may appear anywhere else and therefore the average wage is probably lower and because it is lower, all social transfers charged from average wages are then lower. This is known to those living on social transfers and other benefits, at the level they then receive as a payment for their work or for the exercise of certain rights. It seems to me, my fellow Members and colleagues, in view of this debate and in view of the fact that the reform of tax legislation is also being prepared to deal with these problems more than once. In any event, it would not be for the National Assembly to begin to say that, instead of certain ministries or offices of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, those who, after covering these salaries, should seek irregularities in companies, seek irregularities in certain programmes or in projects carried out as they ultimately have a basis in paid salaries. So at this point, I would appeal to this, if you like, once about this issue, as a certain point in the National Assembly we can answer. Statistics are the basis of all debates here in the National Assembly when people rely on these things, and at some point they could also represent the work of the Statistical Council and the work of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia. And I have already said this in the introduction, and it seems to me that if this thing was not already at the plenary session, it could at least be in the context of a lecture for Members of the National Assembly. That's why I'm asking the leadership of the National Assembly somehow to try to organize this thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u34	Or a replica, Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Mogo, I agree with you in everything you've said about the quality of the work of the Bureau of Statistics. However, there was not enough time for these things that I had in mind and expected other colleagues from other parliamentary groups to be able to say the following to this problem, as pointed out at the previous meeting under the question of the Minister. Mr Minister, Slovenia is at the top of salary taxation. That's why I triggered this debate to find ways to make money so that people don't look so hard for other ways to get around this way or pay their wages. High school, 6, 5, income, not interested in high wages at all. If you look at how much they earn from wages, how much from others, from tax returns, it is clear to everyone. The problem is and remains the problem of wages, their capture, in particular that is correct, they capture this pattern. Indeed, we might ask ourselves whether the sample of 23,000 companies is real to capture 600,000 employees. That's one of the questions we could clear up. The second question is how to solve the wages that they deserve, and that there will be no more payments, as they are called, "on hand", pretending to count them to nothing. And they are simple, either unemployed or otherwise, who are not registered as unemployed, performing. I'd like to tell you if you had another half hour, 20 cases of how this is done. Who's driving those 10 trucks he's registered to, and no employees? These are also the problems of the Minister of Finance. It's not just a burden to pay. That's the easiest thing to do. The one who gets paid has to pay those taxes, but look for them, burden more capital than wages, that's the motto of my proposal to discuss wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I agree, in fact, that the problem in Slovenia is crystallized, that the tax system, as it is now made, is essentially wrongly done, given the development that Slovenia has made since 1994, when the tax system was set up. Clearly, we have changed the economic system, in fact there is increasing income on assets. But we still have a particularly busy job. So this change is necessary. That's a change I've been predicting we're going to make. We are now preparing, but not just one law, but this is a package of tax laws, where we will try to tackle all these challenges, which are now creating a different flow of income that natural and legal persons have in taxing, so that this taxation will be more comparable to that tax that is in the European Union. Of course, I fully agree that we now have certain elements of taxation, such as taxes on salaries paid that others do not know. However, we need to know that if we do not go into a comprehensive change in tax legislation, and this in a package of all these laws that are binding on it, we cannot abolish such a tax today. We pay from the budget to the pension fund. For this year's forecast is somewhere between 218 and the new forecast is up to 230 billion tolars. That's what's in the budget right now, which is what we're covering, which is not what we get from our contributions. On the other hand, the income from this tax on paid wages is around 107 billion for this year. It is said that this tax does not replace contributions as it should. That is why we must now go elsewhere if we are to slowly abolish this tax. It is now essentially what we are trying to do: prepare a comprehensive reform and come before Parliament with a package. First, there will be a package of three laws - income, real estate and corporate income tax. Then again, this year, nine of these laws, which are crucial for amending tax legislation, will try to bring these problems under the roof and thus solve the problems that we have discussed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members and Government representatives, I conclude the debate and thus this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. Also notice, at 12.45 p.m. we will move to the 13th item of the agenda - this is to the debate on the response of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Anton Ropa asked Dr. Andrei Bajuk about the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in managing the public ownership stake in the SIB bank. Thank you all very much. We'll pick it up at 12.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u39	We're at 13. On the day-to-day basis, this is when discussing the reply of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the business question of Dr. Andrey Bayuk on the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the conduct of public ownership in the Slovenian Investment Bank. At its 23rd meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by the Prime Minister of Mag. Mr Bajuk asked his fellow Member about the role of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in carrying out public ownership of the SIB bank. Thus, first of all, I give the floor to Dr Andre Bajuk as the proposer for this debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the meeting of this esteemed National Assembly in February, I announced, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a question to the Prime Minister about this sad story about the purchase of SIB by the public company Elektroenergetics, which is 100% owned by the municipality of Ljubljana. At the opening, I mentioned that, on the basis of the information which was sent by the Government of Slovenia on 24 April 2002 to the Member's question, Comrade Janez Janš, on this issue three months earlier, this is said, in January 2002, that on the basis of all these things, an extraordinary meeting could already be started, which would have been held under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, under the guidance of mag. Mitje Gasparija and Anton Ropa, the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the Bank of Slovenia. Now everything shows that we will only have such an extraordinary meeting, as a sufficient number of Members have already demanded it. Of course, we expect the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy to include, in accordance with the requirements of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party, on the agenda of this Committee, the consideration of the reports of the Agency for the Market in Securities, the Slovenian Institute for Audit, and the suspension of the meetings of this Committee on Finance will continue as soon as possible, at which we began to consider the report of the Bank of Slovenia on the supervision of banks and savings banks in Slovenia in 2001 and the first half of 2002, which has already started, at the initiative of the second group, but also part of the demands of our two parliamentary groups. Today, the agenda is intended to discuss the answer, according to our assessment of the unsatisfactory response, Mr Prime Minister, to the question raised on the first day of the February meeting. Let me refresh the memory of my respected colleagues and colleagues of the essence of my question. In this respect, I would like to start by explaining our basic assessment, which is that the issue of the SIB is primarily the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? In 1990, SIB was established with a majority ownership share of the country, namely on 19 April 1990. This is among the first and second rounds of the first democratic elections won by the Demos Coalition. In 1997, SIB was one of the smallest banks with a market share of less than 1%, with a loss of EUR 548 million. We do not know whether the government had already discussed or even discussed the long-term mission and effectiveness of this bank. Otherwise, she was the main owner. Let's keep going. The bank's management, however, Director Klemenčič, is, according to information provided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in response to a question by counterpart Janez Janš, the amount of ownership of the State in 1998, that is to say, the management of the SIB has objected to the level of ownership. In 1998, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded an agreement with which the Republic of Slovenia defined its majority share of 36.9, 37%, but only adopted 20% of the voting right. In April 2000, a few days before the change of government, the government transferred part of its share to Kad and the Court, but the government still had a share of 21.6%. In 2001, at the time of the purchase of the majority of the SIB by Energy, it was the state, the so-called Government of the Republic of Slovenia still the largest individual owner with a share of 21.6%, which remained also after the purchase of the SIB by Energy. This share of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was relatively reduced only after energy had further recapitalised the SIB, so that the share of the State was relatively reduced only after the definitive recapitalisation and was 11.3% after the state of 31.7.2002. The government had information, and based on information in the government's reply to the parliamentary question, colleague Janša had representatives of SIB in the supervisory board until 27 December 2001, that is, at a time when the recapitalisation by Energy was still being decided. At the moment, her exclusion from management certainly meant, at least after our assessment, that she knew the state of this bank and decided to withdraw from ownership.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u41	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, in five minutes, you requested that you be asked for 15 minutes? [[...]] Then there was a mistake. Please. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you. At the time when the majority of the shares of the SIB were sold to Energetics, they were co-owners of that bank, the real government, and its capital company KAD and SOD. As the largest individual owners, they should have been or should have been familiar with the findings of the Bank of Slovenia as supervisors of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia has carried out several checks to ensure the liquidity of this bank - more checks! The Bank of Slovenia issued an order for the implementation of the rules and for the elimination of breaches of risk management in the SIB in March 2001 and again in November 2001, from which it had to be demonstrated that the bank was not in the financial position as shown in the accounts for 2000. The above-mentioned recapitalisation was also necessary in order to ensure the bank’s liquidity or solvency. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had to be aware of the poor situation of the SIB. In 2000, the government transferred its remaining share of 11.3% to the first pension fund managed by KAD. Although the purchase of the majority stake of SIB by the public company Energetics took place in front of the public eye, those largest owners did not provide for sales carried out in accordance with the acquisition law and the rules of the profession on the purchase of the majority share. As SIB was not established in the company’s property transformation process and since its shares were not included in any market quotation, the acquisition of that bank was not required under the provisions of the takeover law. At least that's what we hear now. Before the sale or purchase, there was also no sound financial review of the operation of SIB, only a legal review was formally carried out. The latter was carried out by Sénica’s lawyer, but this legal opinion was not expressed or delivered, which is as if the review had not been carried out or worse, as he cited the inadmissibility of the documentation in individual SIB borrowers by the administration. The prudent financial review of SIB was carried out only at the beginning of 2003, the KPMG Audit House, at the request of Mr Rekar. Therefore, the government, as the responsible operator and the largest individual owner of the state property in the SIB, should take care of its strategic development within ten years of the implementation of this obligation. Its financial position should be particularly careful after 1997, when this bank has shown a significant loss, as it is clear that a bank with such a small market share already due to its economic scale cannot be successful in the long term. This was the primary duty of the Minister of Finance, Mr Mag. Mitja Gaspari, current Governor of Banka Slovenije, as well as then Minister of Labour Mag. Anton Rope. The Ministry of Labour is directly responsible for the management of the German loan to SIB, which it received in the framework of an interstate contract of 10 million marks at the time of its establishment with the aim of lending small businesses or entrepreneurs, locals and returnees. The State of Slovenia also contributed to the same share of the loan. Mr. Mag. Mr Tone Rop, acting as Minister of Labour as Minister of Finance, was responsible for the management of the SIB, as well as for the former Minister of Finance, Mr Mag. Mitya Gaspari. In our opinion, the government or its finance minister had to be informed by the Bank of Slovenia that the SIB has irrevocable claims and that the accounts in 2000 and 2001 do not show a fair and genuine picture of the operation. Nevertheless, the management of SIB was able to use fraud by concealing the actual situation to ensure that the sale of the majority share was used by the owners so far, including Mr Klemenčič as director, directly responsible for each operation of the bank. Not all of them are equal, since shares of them were purchased on the grey market at a price ranging from 2100 to 3800 tolars. All to the detriment of the public property of the public energy company. In early 2003, it became publicly known that the shares purchased by the public energy company were worth approx. 10 times less than the paid value. The reason for this was the past business. According to all these facts, respected colleagues and colleagues, the SIB is primarily the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. What is the position of the Prime Minister on the basis of the answer to the question raised? I quote: "The fact is that the majority and control share of the Slovenian Investment Bank has acquired Energy Holding or through it the city of Ljubljana. The city of Ljubljana manages holding and indirectly also with Energetics. That is why it is right, I say, that it also assumes responsibility for trying to respond appropriately in relation to the situation." So, essential responsibility, not the government of the Republic of Slovenia, but the city municipality of Ljubljana. So, Mr. Prime Minister. Furthermore, and on the basis of statements made by the former Governor of Banka Slovenije, Dr Francet Arhar, I mentioned at the previous meeting that at the SIB in recent years they had approved, granted loans, knowing that certain recipients would never return them, according to known data for at least some 5 billion tolars. Five billion dollars. As I said at the time, that would be enough resources to buy over 10 km of a long splintered column of pegs. That's what every Slovenian understands. We all know that the banking system is based on trust and credibility of supervisory institutions. Trust in the banking system in Slovenia is at stake today. I have proposed to the Prime Minister a corrective action that could convince the Slovenian public and restore their confidence in these institutions, which is next. So I also asked him: Are you prepared to take such an approach in order to achieve the cancellation of the purchase of SIB by Energy? With this act, you will be able to return the money to the Energy Agency. To the States and to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you will return it only by disclosing the SIB’s non-refundable and requesting the money laundering office to track down the real recipients of these loans. And what did the Prime Minister say? His comment was that it was very clear, and here I quote, "the clear message also by the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia is that it is necessary to do everything to determine whether there are such committees, whether there are such transactions, or whether there are internal information between the various actors of the transaction itself, on the basis of which anyone has obtained an asset or has acquired part of what we have been talking about". He went on to say, of course, that we must all do our utmost together to ensure that those responsible for what happened are also adequately sanctioned. But the key question is whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is ready to achieve that it will cancel the purchase of the SIB and that the funds will return and there was no answer. That is why I would like to point out that our debate today is about this key issue, the accession of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this problem. Not only because they claim to be responsible in the Ljubljana municipality, and they do not want to assume the responsibility that I have made clear in this ten-year history of this institution, but also because it is not ready to return to the Slovenians today the confidence that the rule of law will finally prevail. It is not enough, dear colleagues and colleagues, that we will only deal with this, whether or not we will punish or sanction the person responsible. Above all, the rule of law requires that this purchase be cancelled, that money be returned and that trust in our institutions be regained. This is not only the expectation of Slovenian citizens and citizens, this is the requirement of the coalition Slovenia, this is required by the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much, the panellist, Dr. Andrey Bajuk. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister of Magi. Anton Rope. So there won't be a misunderstanding - 5 or 15 minutes, Prime Minister? [[Five minutes.]] Five minutes for the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u44	Dear Members and honourable Members! In fact, this discussion, which we have now witnessed, is about how essential it is for the state and policy to withdraw from banks and businesses, because otherwise they are businesses and banks and are people working in banks, a permanent hostage of policies and different conclusions, simplifications and attempts of policy regarding the operations of banks, businesses and in relation to concrete transactions. Today we have witnessed again the attempt to take responsibility for some of the actions that could have been - I would have estimated that - disputed, perhaps illegal, too, would have gone just as far as to government, to politics. That's clear and clear. See what started Dr. Bayuk's discussion: he began with the wrong assumption that the government was, that the executive council was the majority owner of SIB. It just doesn't hold! It's a deception to the public. That's what he started. When the executive board set up this bank in 1990 - I don't know why it was set up, I don't know if it made sense, and I think it was a very questionable establishment - it was 47% owned by the Bilta-time Executive Council, so it wasn't the majority owner, so the state wasn't the majority owner, so it didn't fully manage the bank and it's basically wrong. But she was the biggest owner. This is, of course, the first starting point of this story from which he started and from which he then tries to make a construct. The second, significantly greater error in the whole story that is trying to sell here is that two things are mixed up, completely wrong and obviously in order to achieve a goal, a political goal - that someone who has nothing to do with certain things is accused of something because it is politically appropriate for someone. It's about connecting two things. One is the poor operation of the bank, one is the ineffective operation of the bank. One is the business itself and the very creation of the bank, which stemmed from the idea of offering an appropriate service to the small economy and of involving the bank in the project of returning natives from Germany and giving certain credits from this title. Of course, the mistaken assumption of the then government made by someone to set up a special bank in order to carry out some of the transactions, some of the transactions with the locals. So it's a loan service. It's completely wrong. A completely wrong assumption, if you will, of Shinigog's government, with which, of course, this government has absolutely nothing, and from which, of course, I distance publicly. It was stupid to set up one bank to do business that any bank in Slovenia could do. Apparently, someone had an interest in doing your job, making a legal person, and doing business through that bank. There's no doubt about it. I completely agree, but please! This government and I personally assume responsibility because in 1990 someone decided to set up one bank and conduct some transactions in it, it seems to me to be minimally said, totally incorrect. And, of course, this leads to business problems. The bank was made of nothing, the bank was created by the state as a 47% owner in the beginning, that private owners controlled the bank in the majority share and operated as they did. In this part, the country had representatives in the supervisory council and we can look into further discussions on who these persons were, of course, who were responsible, who were in the supervisory board and what are the responsibilities of individual ministers. Not to mention the responsibility of the Minister of Labour in 1997 or 1998, when these transactions were carried out in full and it was about servicing the loan. And to accuse the then minister of 1997 of something that happened in 1990, 1991, 1992 is incorrect. Of course you can do it and you can say it over and over again. Second thing. We can do business analysis and subsidies. That's another thing, too. But the biggest, I'm sorry that I'm running out of time, and the biggest manipulation is that you've mixed up the bad business that was essentially defined by the transaction concerning sale. I think it was a bad transaction, I think it was a bad decision by Energy, I think it was a bad decision by the city of Ljubljana to decide on this transaction. But please! For a bad transaction that someone made and decided for it in Energetics, in holding, if you want to, even in the city of Ljubljana, accuse the government, it is completely incorrect. That's incorrect. You can laugh, of course, over and over again, and you may find that funny. However, the government was not involved in the decision and was not even informed of the share it had to sell. I believe it's necessary to investigate and I told you last time. The institutions will be involved, I have information here about what the institutions have done. In SIB the Bank of Slovenia, which is, of course, responsible for its work and independent; the Securities Market Agency, which of course checks certain transactions and will itself tell which and which are controversial; the Slovenian Institute of Audit, as I announced; the police - the whole case is in the investigation phase - is an accounting court, currently carrying out three audits; the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering checks individual transactions, and the CAD and the SUD sold their shares and the decision was taken in 2000 September.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Look, we will go as required by the procedure, firstly by presenting the views of the members of the groups. Do you have a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Then you will have the opportunity to explain when you have a word within the position statement or as a Member. Now I have allowed both the proposer and the Prime Minister a little more time to conclude their minds. Please don't always have to do this. If, please, you can take into account the limitations you have placed on your own regarding time. First of all, a colleague of Peca has the floor for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, followed by a colleague of Bayuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u46	The Prime Minister has stated "uncorrect" several times. It's unfair to try to get to the bottom of a financial scandal. It is unfair to point to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to your words, the Prime Minister, Mr Tone Rop, it is clear whether you are bluffing at this time or whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no authority at all and does not even know what is going on in our country. But let me remind you that throughout Slovenian history you are always in the government. You were Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. You were Minister of Finance, Secretary of State, Prime Minister. I personally estimate that your performance was incorrect. In particular, if we look at your debate in the context of Mr Bayuk's reply to the question raised, which I think assesses or shows the whole dimension of the problem. I estimate that there are quite a few institutions and it is far from here that the government and Banka Slovenije should be the only ones who should react, in particular, and now there is an emphasis, and above all it is clear that it must react to the city of Ljubljana, Ljubljana. Prime Minister Tone Rop, this is nothing more than laying down responsibility or, in other words, confusing responsibility. We estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by sending another player back into the game, says it wants to avoid any or any responsibility. The city of Ljubljana was also run by the Liberal Democracy, if you may not know. On the other hand, in discussions such as this, within this point, or in the context of the previous point, the debate is rather irrelevant. At the final stage of the Rules of Procedure, which has also been put into circulation by the Liberal Democracy, it does not allow any decision to be taken and the effect of today's debate will not be different than that of today's speech without a conclusion. In the Slovenian National Party, we therefore estimate that the events associated with this financial speculation, which you have favoured, to the politics of Liberal Democracy, both at the city level and at the state level, are the result of three things: firstly, the power of Liberal Democracy; secondly, the interests of Liberal Democracy and thirdly, the friendship of Liberal Democracy with individuals. The events that have taken place also indicate three things. First, regrettably, certain people are exempt or superior. Secondly, that the supervisory institutions, when it is in the interest of individuals, will again be used, the Liberal Democrats, are completely powerless. Thirdly, there is a significant gap between the quality and inquality of the work of parastatal or state institutions such as the SOD and the KAD, where the Liberal Democracy has its representatives again. In the Slovenian National Party, we claim that the SIB's story is the country's fault. The country is unfortunately, I stress, unfortunately, the property of the politicians of the Liberal Democracy. Therefore, I hope with all seriousness to say that the Liberal Democracy is to blame, through its way of thinking, with its actions and its activities, which have been generally carried out in this country for ten years, and in particular this work is reflected in this and similar cases. Also as regards the extraordinary meeting as the other kind of opposition institute to discuss individual matters, which, unlike the existing talk, has the possibility of taking individual decisions, we are afraid that an extraordinary session of some kind of illusion is a premonition of democracy in this country. If we look a few days ago, this National Assembly was not able to accuse the attack on the United States, but was only capable of regretting it. And I sincerely fear that, on the proposal, again, the Liberal Democrats will come to the conclusion that the National Assembly regrets that events have taken place in connection with banking in Slovenia. Allow me another one. Mr Bajuk said, "to restore trust in institutions" - yes, Mr Bajuk, it sounds very nice, but not with these people. Unfortunately, with these people, it won't be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u47	I now give the floor to my colleague, Dr. Bajuk, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I may have misunderstood your first call to the floor, and I thought I should present the position of the Group of Members. I'm sorry, not just for you, but for all your colleagues and colleagues. However, I would just like to reiterate what is the essence of our position, which I have presented today and is also the position of the entire coalition of Slovenia. Why do we not agree with the approach and response of the Prime Minister to the question that we asked him a month ago at two key points - the first, whose responsibility it is? We are committed to this, and I think we have also proved that it cannot be the responsibility for this purchase only in the Ljubljana municipality, that it is the original responsibility of the government and in particular the responsibility of the government. Not only because the government was the founder, but also because of all the other actions and concrete information that I gave in my presentation. Mr Prime Minister, I regret that you said that you were talking to me. In fact, if you have such a position, turn it to your own government in the previous composition, because the information I have mentioned is precisely in the government's response to the question asked by colleague Janez Janša about how the bank was set up. It is true that there is no specific information as to how much the government's initial share was. However, the following point states that the agreement was reached in 1998 precisely because the management of the SIB objected to the fact that the share was too high given that it was established on the basis of certain transferable claims of the then developmental dinar. And then, in 1998, it went down to 36.9 percent. But it's not a key action. True, we are not talking about Shinigog's government's responsibility here. All we're saying is that it was from the beginning, from the very beginning of the institution created by politics, it was created by the state and then managed, and it was very largely. And this is the fact that 36.9% have survived the time that it has passed from one institution to another, in which the government of the Republic of Slovenia has the only responsibility. On the basis of all these things we cannot agree with your position in response then and today, you have also reiterated that this is the primary responsibility of the Ljubljana municipality. The second part of our presentation, however, is that we do not agree with your approach that the government must in some way give up what we consider essential. This is the fact that the government has to stand up for this purchase to actually be cancelled. But it's not like we're just gonna do what I approve of. Mr President, I respect your position when you said that, and today, you have reiterated that the government will insist that we come to a limit of actual responsibility. Yeah, well, that's the key to our legal order. It can no longer happen as it did in the contracts in Elan that the responsibility in the proceedings was established, but nothing happened because the judge forgot to pass the sentence. Mr President, the Slovenian government must stand by to prove that this purchase will be cancelled. Why? To make it clear to everyone in Slovenia once and for all that we have drawn a line and that we will not allow certain gentlemen, either maliciously or to play blanks in our legislation, to act as they have now done and actually offer to Slovenian taxpayers such high sums. So we disagree with you on these two points. The first responsibility is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And secondly, it is possible only if the political will is to be exceeded, to go one step further than just identifying responsibility and any sanctions, to get things back to a position from which we should never move. It's to buy up to return the money. Or domestically, the money has to be returned, and the thieves have to be sanctioned by legal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My friend Kebrich has a word I don't see between us. Then I give my word to my grandson. Would you like a fellow Grandchild's word? Please have the floor to present the position of the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Honorable Prime Minister, Minister, both ministers! The SIB bank was a state bank, regardless of the percentage of the share you mentioned. Other legal persons who were co-founder in 1990 were then state-owned, as everything else was then state-owned. We haven't had a privatisation yet, so that's not true. It's circumstantial property for me. There's no difference. On the other hand, this bank was then set up for development. All banks in the former Yugoslavia were set up for development, not for something else. In the Young Slovenia Party, however, we believe that the purchase of a bank in the light of the Prime Minister's statements, which said that a policy withdrawal from the banking system was needed, was fully agreed. Then why did the city authorities go to buy a bank two years ago? Just for nothing. And at that time, we knew that we were entering the European Union. By entering the European Union or we have already decided on this referendum, we will also actively participate next year, we can go quiet souls wherever we want to, in Dresden, to various "Spar Casa, Bank di Italiano, such and different and we will get such and different better conditions as we have here. The President of our largest, still in the majority ownership of the country, the Ljubljana Bank is now intensively walking around and lobbying with the largest companies so as not to move its business abroad because it is rightly afraid that it could get better employment conditions abroad. Therefore, we believe in the Young Slovenia Party that the very idea of buying a bank by the municipality has not mattered which, urban or smallest, was missed from the very beginning. Because there were already so many banks on the market, such and different ones, with domestic or foreign capital, and if you need money they give you ever better conditions than the owner you have to take care of other obligations. It's called the founding, the covering of the loss and so on. And here from this point of view, regardless of the legal opinion, the legal basis for the purchase was certainly fine, we have no doubt, given the very eminent individuals in this area who regulated it. On the other hand, the local government law obliges the mayor to treat municipal property as a caring master. We have this in the law on local self-government. And if we can tell, the least we can do is tell the mayor that she didn't act like a good master. Now, too, we believe that the Mayor's full knowledge was not given full knowledge when she signed this and that it is not all her fault. However, it is essential to identify who are the culprits who led to this, whether it was a missed investment or who are the ones who contributed to this sinful act for the Ljubljanaers. For each Ljubljanaan was harmed by this purchase for at least 30,000 tolars, which is not much, but everyone, including a newborn, aged one day, was injured by 30,000 tolars. And this money could be much more useful for other investments in the city that the city urgently needs. We now drive here eminent representatives of other countries through Ljubljana, to Tromostvoje. But what they have there to see: one manure that runs past, instead of arranging, say, an example, the coastline of Ljubljana to make it live, there's manure flowing, we can say literally. The SIB has this to do with the fact that the purchase of the SIB was wrong. We therefore agree in the Party of Young Slovenia that the best solution would be to cancel the contract, to return their money to the Ljubljanans and that the owners, those owners who wanted to take over the bank's rehabilitation, would take care of themselves and take responsibility for the missed investments that were undoubtedly there. This comes from the Court of Auditors' report, I hope that we, too, Members of Parliament, will not only be members of the Finance Committee or city councilors, that we too will be familiar with all the irregularities that have taken place, or that we will be properly aware of the procedures that have taken place with regard to this sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much, colleague Grandchild. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, respected Minister, colleague and colleague. The question of the Member's colleague, Dr. Bajuk, and a number of information in the media and the public at large, including the explanation of the request for an extraordinary meeting on this subject, in our Group of Members, not only has this aroused and aroused interest and attention, but also concerns about the perceived alleged irregularities and even the suspicion of crimes in connection with the purchase of the majority stake of the SIB in the bank by the public energy company. Therefore, despite the answer put by the Prime Minister to the question posed by Ambassador Bajuk, we believe that further answers to the questions raised, to the suspicions raised, to the accusations and even to the judgments must be obtained. It is necessary to obtain clear answers from the responsible and competent authorities in order to ensure that the national assembly, as legislator and the interested public, on the basis of facts and evidence, is informed in particular: for the first time what has actually happened; for the second time, how the competent and responsible authorities have acted in the light of their powers and responsibilities and for the third time, what the role or activity of the Government in this matter has been and will be. In particular, we expect reports and information from the following bodies and institutions: Securities Market Agency, Bank of Slovenia, Anti-Corruption Office, Anti-Money Laundering Office, Court of Auditors, Slovenian Institute of Audit, Police and Public Prosecutions, and finally from the government. Today, the Prime Minister has made very clear what our information also confirms, that all these institutions are actually at work and probably won't take long to get the relevant information and reports. However, before we receive comprehensive reports and responses, it is our view that, in order to avoid causing material or moral harm to legal and natural persons, and the appropriate role and position of the national assembly, we should, if possible, refrain from giving premature judgments and even judgments. In particular, the National Assembly, as legislator, must take account of the constitutional and statutory powers, both its powers and the responsibilities and responsibilities of individual national authorities. Pre-trial convictions of legal and natural persons and judgements or even disqualifications of supervisory institutions and their responsible officials are unacceptable before we are familiar with the facts and evidence of the suspicions expressed. Nor does this contribute to the detection and resolution of actual problems and their causes and irregularities, but it can unduly damage the reputation, authority and ultimately the effectiveness of the work of supervisory institutions and responsible function holders. The proposed extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject seems to us only to the extent that the National Assembly adopts decisions, as the signatories also propose by which the National Assembly requires or will require reports from the competent authorities and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Only on the basis of these reports will there be a meaningful and responsible substantive debate on the concrete situation and responsibility of the institutions and individuals involved. And to conclude. In addition to the required reports and information, it would be useful, or even necessary, for the Government and the supervisory authorities of the national assembly to propose, as legislators, what needs to be done in the system, in the legislation for more effective control, and in particular in order to prevent detected irregularities in this and in other cases, I am referring to acquisitions, the unjustified use of internal information, the powers of supervisors to act in a timely manner and so on. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by counterpart Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Also in the Slovenian People's Party we were interested in monitoring the affair or scandal that took place at the SIB Bank in the capital of Ljubljana. Here I must point out that we also felt that it was the right question by one of the presidents of the opposition parliamentary party to ask the first person in this country, the Prime Minister, about such a scandal or such an affair. We must stress that today's interpretation of the Prime Minister's question and initiative by Mr Bayuk seems correct and responsible. First of all, we must be aware that some of the authorities responsible must do their work. It is true that the government responds indirectly. Some previous speakers drew attention to some actors who were supposed to be local politicians of certain political options, particularly the LDS and the United Kingdom, involved in this affair, and in this regard our opinion is as follows: national authorities must do their job. Above all, I am referring here to the State's Attorney's Office, if the elements of crime are given, to the work of the police, and we are primarily referring to the Anti-Money Laundering Office. Once these three authorities have done their job, regardless of who and how the type of local or state policy is involved in this affair, they must be responsible. In the case of economic crime, gentlemen, there are no unknown perpetrators. When a crime is committed or completed, the perpetrators are known. The Law on Local Self-Government, the Statute of the Local Community of Ljubljana and certain laws on companies and others give precise, clear and public powers to certain responsible persons within local communities and economic services. Accurately, it is known who and how he is responsible for the act. Many words have been said, both in the local community, at meetings of the Ljubljana City Council and today we speak in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that law enforcement authorities and those authorities that control the legality and effectiveness of certain activities must play their role. Above all, I stress once again that the role of the state prosecutor, the police and the anti-money laundering office must play. We could also ask ourselves here what role the Council of the National Bank has played here, which is kind of watching over all the banks operating in the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore call once again with all responsibility for actively engaging in the research of this affair and this scandal all the competent services responsible for it in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Prime Minister, Mr Rob, should encourage these services to complete their work as soon as possible and find responsible persons for this phenomenon and for this scandal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. Please, if you can communicate your views from the speaker or from your place, so that there will be no misunderstandings about the recording. There will be a debate between Members and Members. If I saw it correctly earlier, Prime Minister, did you want to answer? You'll be in the end, okay? My friend's not here. Comrade Bayuk, would you like a word? I'll have a hard time giving it to you later - if there's any time left, okay? Colleague of Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u56	I don't understand what that means now, Mr President. If I understand correctly, do we have enough time left in the group?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u57	Of course!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u58	Well, then!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u59	If you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u60	I don't want it now. I want it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u61	Now you have to, because that's the way it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u62	Well, all right, then, now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u63	Please! Thank you very much. In the end, I'll give you my word if there's time left, but it's time to stick to the order of things, because otherwise there's a mix-up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u64	Well, well, well, I'm good, I'll hang in there. I'm going to follow the rules of procedure that I'm trying to learn from, but it's hard because sometimes we interpret it differently than it's written, well, no matter what. Since I am a few minutes away from presenting myself, I would like to stress the following. The fact is, we have a lot of work to do. Not only the governments of the Republic of Slovenia and all the institutions responsible in this area, but also this National Assembly. This National Assembly is also responsible and co-responsible for systemic gaps or errors that also make such things possible. That is why we will be particularly committed to putting an end to these things as soon as possible. Of course, according to our assessment, these gaps are mainly, I would say, planned because such laws as we have adopted - just in case you do not say again that I am speaking in vain, which is what Mr President of the Government likes to mention. [[...]] The fact is that we have a company law where Article 219 ensures equality of all shareholders. Do you know that there is no sanction in that law? No sanctions. That's an empty word, a toothless formula. You can't do that. Well, that sort of thing, let's say, we're definitely going to have to fix it so that it really comes into force. In addition, it is essential that this debate not only expands on the responsibility of the government on what I have already mentioned, namely that it has had to be informed of everything that has happened there, because it is impossible to understand otherwise. Not only does she have her representative on the Bank of Slovenia's supervisory board, which is the finance minister, if I understand correctly, she had her supervisors right until the last day, until 31 December 2001, after all the related institutions mentioned earlier. So we will also have to talk about the government's responsibility in terms of the systemic regulation of the securities market, how we will deal with this. The responsibility of the government, in view of the inappropriateness of the regulation of control over the exercise of public powers, authorised auditors or audit firms, is also an open issue. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure you will recall when, in the first months of this assembly of the National Assembly during this period, we passed a law on revision, how the opposition warned of irregularities, how the issue of control and the question of the links between the auditor and the auditor is unresolved in this law. Of course, we will have to talk about the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in terms of inadequate concern for the development of the public sector. How many times have we heard the Prime Minister explaining to us: "Yes, of course, because we are advocating that the government withdraw from all this." Yes, of course, I agree with that. Politics is in there, it's written down, the strategy is clear, but how do we do it? What's left of it when we step back? Who do we place all these responsibilities upon when the government withdraws? Who actually gets all this? Do you think that Slovenians and Slovenes do not know what was happening in our transition period, that some privates suddenly and overnight became billionaires on the basis of the acquisition of former social property? Of course we're gonna have to do a lot more work. I hope that the debate at this extraordinary meeting will also shed light on all this and that we will take this national assembly seriously so that we can reach certain solutions as soon as possible, because it is also our responsibility to do so. It is also our willingness to cooperate with the Slovenian government in order to resolve this as soon as possible. Otherwise, I'd go back to my first presentation. Dear Prime Minister, we do not agree with your approach when you are not prepared to assume the responsibility of the government in the SIB bank, and we do not agree with your approach, because you are not prepared to make that step of political decision to cancel this purchase in order to get the money back, but not just to find responsibility and sanctions. In this regard, I congratulate you on your support. I've heard your promises and we take them for granted, but we expect the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The dilemmas that have been raised in today's debate and in all those that have taken place at the past meetings of the MOL City Council are certainly very serious and require a thorough analysis. Whether the purchase of a SIB bank was a purposeful use of money, whether it was a non-economic and harmless or harmful investment at the time it was done, is today, when so many days and years have passed, difficult to speak. The right actors and creators of the idea of buying are not present so that they can tell us and explain all their current goals, for which some claim to have been good, others claim to have been bad. I, too, today, despite the fact that much more information is available, cannot decide and define what is right and what is wrong. And why am I answering today? Especially because I used to be a city councilwoman, and I didn't make that decision. I didn't get a chance to make that decision either. I was there, and I was informed about this as all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, from the daily newspaper. The MOL city councillors discussed "post Festum" at an extraordinary meeting when the purchase of the bank was already done, when almost all the money, 3.5 billion, had already been used and ordered by the shareholders of the bank and it was no longer possible to return it to the public energy company. So the story was already over, whether the purchase of the bank itself was prudent and reckless and whether it liked it or not. At that time, the majority decision seemed responsible to me in the city council, especially since the mayor of the city Council then provided documents which, within the limits of the legal and statutory powers of the world, were largely satisfactory in answering the questions raised by the meeting's proponents. Unfortunately, I now note that all the claims and documents that were available to saints and saints at the time were not entirely and were not entirely true. But some of the information that is now known was not unknown and not available, which is very important. Today, however, I am taking my stand on the basis of all the documents we have been able to identify as transparent as possible as possible of all activities relating to the procedures for the sale or resolution of the position of the bank and its committees, to examine thoroughly the procedures for the purchase of the bank, the powers and the responsibilities of all those involved in the purchase, and to initiate the necessary measures to establish their moral and, in particular, material liability for the damage caused, since the decision to purchase the bank has certainly been more political than professional. In order to accelerate the activities of those authorities in the country responsible for taking action in such cases, namely the Securities Market Agency, the Prosecutor's Office, the Court of Auditors, the Bank of Slovenia, the Institute of Audit, the Anti-Corruption Office and so on, as already mentioned, and the Slovenian Institute of Audit. I hope that all these authorities will find out in one way what was right or wrong and that this affair will be finally resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. No, no, no. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u68	Dear Vice President, Prime Minister. I have a problem. A problem called a selective approach. I do not understand why the opposition, not only that Mr Bajuk has asked the question, but the opposition is signing documents where it wants an extraordinary reference to this issue, but then does not participate selectively in this meeting or in the discussion of this meeting. Today we are discussing the answer and there were two questions that Dr. Bayuk asked the Prime Minister. The first, to which I think the Prime Minister has answered clearly when asking the question and has added today, but has not really been answered to the second question raised by Dr. Bajuk, namely, how long will the rule of waiting be mocked by citizens at national and local level. At this point, I think the opposition is making fun of us, because it carries this story to a level that it knows that, of course, at this level, it is not possible to make decisions and that, of course, it is a matter of the city of Ljubljana. This, of course, does not avoid discussion and themes already absorbed by the city of Ljubljana. You ask yourself, and today you have asked further questions about what the government has done to reverse the purchase. Of course, there is nothing for the government to do, since the city of Ljubljana or the city council has already adopted 14 conclusions at its last meeting, in which it clearly and unequivocally speaks of the Court of Auditors carrying out an extraordinary audit of the business. If I mention only some, for example, on your particular question that the City Council requires the Securities Market Agency and other competent institutions to carry out all necessary procedures to cancel the purchase of SIB shares by the public energy company. That's two out of fourteen. I won't count. But there is another very important conclusion, and I wanted to talk about it when I said I was disturbed by this selective approach. This is the decision proposed by the Liberal Democracy, with the support of a coalition partner in the city council, to set up a special commission, a special commission in which the majority of the opposition city councils will participate and will also chair this special commission. This Commission should clarify everything regarding the purchase of SIBs. You know that to this day, no one has been appointed by the opposition to this committee. Without the appointment of anyone, one or two opposition parties or two explicitly demand that this issue be linked to the appointment of opposition representatives to the control councils of the Holding, which I find extremely unhygienic from this perspective. If the opposition has something to do with this, and the position is, if you want to clear things up, then follow the decisions we voted on together, and talk about the need to clarify this through the procedure that concerns it. And this is, of course, the procedure through the city council to the investigative commission and the spouses of the authorities going through the normal procedure, through the complaints, if you want, through the courts and so on. Today we're talking about economic crime, crime. Of course, these actions must first be proven and then tell whether the policy is involved. And the question of why it was purchased. In today's back talk, of course, it's kind of problematic. The time when this purchase was decided was the time, if you want, of great national interests, bank sales, Interbrew, Laško and Union brewery. The purchase was made on the basis that the Holding’s Supervisory Board supported the purchase of the bank and that the previous legal checks, the audit report and the provision of the Bank’s management of the success had been reinforced. If leadership then did not trust all these eminent audit and financial supervisory institutions, then who should it trust in that country?Oh, my God! And we can talk about this - whether the mechanisms are right to control it. This was recorded in one of the articles in the week. But I don't want us to get carried away today, it's just a political story. The next topic will, of course, be an extraordinary meeting, an extraordinary item, an investigative commission and so on - the story is political, you want to take the story to the end of the elections, in a way that is not appropriate to the procedure, especially the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer is not in the hall. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When I was preparing for this show, I had three elements in mind. All three of them made it difficult for me to perform, and they challenged me to prepare myself very thoroughly for this point of the agenda. The first is the fact that SIB is in the sales process. Not only is it true in the business world, but even in normal situations, it is true that whenever you sell a bank, if its name comes to the National Assembly, you lower it, you sell it badly. So, how am I supposed to act like I'm not going to lower her price, because that there's no misunderstanding, that the SIB came to the National Assembly, that's what someone's responsible for. The second dilemma was that I was a member of the government coalition. Now I have listened to two performances, a courageous performance by a colleague of Montenegro and a provocative performance by a colleague of Jakič, who went on the attack - the attack is the best defense. For the fact is, in my firm belief, as it says, all politics, that this affair has been gravely covered by the LDS and the United List of Social Democrats, if we are being honest, the Slovenian People's Party has touched the shadow in nothing. How can I say that I will not work from this political capital because I do not want to do it? Last but not least, there are some fellow Members who set up this bank more than ten years ago. I believe they had good intentions, and they're sitting here with us today, at least one of them is sitting between us. Thirdly, I have been a member of the National Assembly for the third time. I am not sure that in the past two mandates, the bodies of the National Assembly have been responsible enough to carry out the supervisory role they play in accordance with the laws and our rules of procedure. I'm not sure. The question of the Slovenian Investment Bank and the reply of the Prime Minister to Dr. Andrej Bajuk's question is primarily a matter of public-private conflict. In this affair, the supervisory institutions do not function as they should. I am prepared for this thesis in very detail if I am to participate in an extraordinary session, even to justify it. Of course, not to seek sole responsibility, but to improve these institutions. However, the problem is not only in the fact that there was an unexplained deficit in the Slovenian Investment Bank, which proved to be a reduction in the balance sheet amount of the Slovenian Investment Bank. That is why the Group proposed an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance to discuss this. Unfortunately, the meeting was convened, it was not completed and it is said to continue in closed session. The problem is more to disclose the political management of bank capital in the case of this bank, in the political manner of recruiting its execution and in the political decision-making on the recruitment of supervisory authorities, market economy supervisors and public-owned monopolistic enterprises, and the way in which they generate their profits. Colleagues and colleagues, these are elements of classical political corruption. I have many arguments for all these indications, of course, and I could present them here in detail. These are elements of classical political corruption. In the case of the Slovenian Investment Bank, colleagues and colleagues, this is not a private bank, but it is a bank in the majority ownership of the capital provided by the State, by para-national funds or by public companies. This must also lead us to discuss this sensitive issue. Now that the matter has come here when it has escaped from the bottle, the Bank of Slovenia has the opportunity to disclose to us, within its powers, all the details that have also affected the reduction of the balance sheet amount of this bank in the first half of 2002. In my opinion, and this is also the opinion of colleagues in the parliamentary group, because we have also discussed this with recognised financial experts, the following would have to be done to resolve this affair. Firstly, appoint an independent supervisory institution to review the operation of the Slovenian Investment Bank in the light of the lending of connected persons and define the economic and political networks that managed the bank. We wonder if there is such an independent supervisory institution in the Slovenian climate. It may be necessary to cut its composition to be wider and not just domestic, Slovenian. Secondly, it would be necessary to disclose publicly all transactions between connected persons, in particular those that did not repay credits or received them under more favourable conditions. Thirdly, the competent state institutions should initiate prosecution procedures for possible offences on the basis of such a review or submit proposals for offences. You've already talked about this with your colleagues. Petič, the National Assembly, the Government, as well as the Municipality of Ljubljana, should determine the connection between the persons appointed to the management and supervisory authorities of this bank and the companies and institutions owned or owned by the Slovenian Investment Bank and the connection with persons in the supervisory institutions of the market economy. Two of these possible networks have already been published by one of the Slovenian diaries on all sides. Sixthly, it is also necessary to establish the possible political responsibility of all those responsible to ensure that the supervisory authorities act as they should. In my opinion, when I attended a meeting of the Committee on Finance yesterday and is fully connected to this subject, the Bank of Slovenia should do the following in the context of the procedures in force here. I should have disclosed to which committees has changed the claim on unpaid liabilities into financial leasing, as we have heard that this was a normal practice. Secondly, it should provide a list of all written-off claims of the Slovenian Investment Bank to borrowers. Thirdly, let it explain precisely the background of the misdirection of billions of Slovenian tolars and how this sum affected the liquidity of the bank on the day of the misdirection. This is supposed to happen on New Year's Eve, 2001. What liquidity it would have been on the day if it had not been for this misperforming transaction. Also with data on the persons who made the wrong transaction and with data on the frequency of all the wrong transactions in the banking system. We'd be happy to hear which bank that little awkward thing happened, that it pointed more than a billion dollars into a wrong account. Fourth time. Similarly, it should clarify the system of SWOT central banks' transactions, their scope in the Slovenian Investment Bank and the importance for the liquidity of this bank, as it was said yesterday that these transactions should also have an impact on the reduced balance sheet amount of the bank. Fifthly, and this does not mean, not least, that the impact of the new accounting standards on the reduction of the balance sheet amount of the Slovenian Investment Bank, but also of the other banks, should be defined similarly. On this question, which was answered by the Prime Minister, Dr. Andre Bajuk, President of the Government, mag. Anton Rop, there's something else that's worrying. Before the bad year are representatives of the Institute for Auditing, if I am not mistaken, it is a private institute with public authority, it is not a state institute, so representatives of this institute have claimed at some very unpleasant American affair that in Slovenia there will never be any enront. Because it's a completely uncomparable economic system. It is true that, in the case of the Slovenian Investment Bank, it is not a matter of concealing profits. However, it is a fact that even with us auditors have not detected any irregularities in showing the business results of the Slovenian Investment Bank for 2001, although there have certainly been problems with old loans at that time. At the time, this bank was also sold to a new buyer. If he has cancelled internal banking supervision, which according to the data we have, he has also helped to carry out the New Ljubljana Bank if he has cancelled the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, then who should carry out such control here? What is the importance of the audits carried out by audit firms? It's not a small expense. We received an independent auditor's report online on this bank's case. Everything is in the best and ideal state for 2001. Whether it is time to re-evaluate the functioning of the audit institute, which has important public powers under the audit legislation, in the context of the procedures we know, and to establish a auditing system that would simply enable the detection of such risks. If we are unable to achieve this, colleagues and colleagues, why do we even have it and pay it dearly? And with all responsibility, colleagues and colleagues, on the fact that yesterday we were placed in a high-class international credit rating house by Slovenia, we can be proud of this, but this fact does not dissuade us from our responsibility to ask ourselves what is the situation in other Slovenian banks, especially those in which the country has an important impact. Who's gonna take bad claims if it turns out they're dealing with bad loans. Does the current control system allow for timely detection of such cases? Personally, I believe that the affair of the Slovenian Investment Bank shows that Slovenia needs a law to prevent conflicts of interest that will prevent such confusion between public interests, public equity and, on the other hand, private and political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you very much. There's no Petty Officer. My friend Potts? [[No, no, ……]] My friend Jakich has already spoken, if I understand correctly. Comrade Trofenic? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u72	Clearly, it has also been shown today that the Institute for Discussions on the answer to the question is not what the proponents would want. More and more are those other debates that talk about everything and in general, not the question itself or the answer and the dissatisfaction with the answer. Such an example, which is now on the agenda, has also received an additional dimension of incomprehensibility, because today we have devoted this point three hours to discussing only the answer to the question and for the second week an extraordinary meeting on this same matter is required. Therefore, I do not intend to discuss the answer in any other way than in the way that it satisfied us, but also me, and that, given how the question was raised, and given that the National Assembly is not a place for us to come to the findings of the inspection services and various other things, we can only get to know them, we can deal with them in the context of the procedures and procedures prescribed for this. I'm sure it's wrong for us to discuss each case separately, where, say, the state's attorney's office got to where the police got to where some other job got to. However, in the context of annual or semi-annual reports or reports, which are dealt with by relevant bodies in the National Assembly, and by certain reports also by the National Assembly. Or, if it's really an extraordinary matter or a special matter, then through the institutes of investigative commissions and various other things. That is why I do not think much more is necessary to talk about this, because at next week's meeting it will be possible to agree on further paths, which is the only thing that makes sense. Because I don't believe that the next week our organs can serve us with anything other than their work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Shirtz is not here right now. A fellow Rockhead? [[He doesn't want to.]] Comrade Squirrel has already spoken. Proposer, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I listened very carefully to the presentations of respected colleagues and colleagues. Above all, I have listened with interest to this last one, my colleague Anderlich, and I certainly agree with him. Today is the debate on the response of the Prime Minister to the question raised. We must be aware that, under our rules of procedure, we have those bees for three minutes so that you can ask questions, ask questions in the context of certain assumptions and get to the specific issue in this very short time. I have already explained twice and will explain again why we requested this debate: because we were not satisfied with the answer. And this with the answer in the core of two questions: whose primary responsibility is and whose approach should be. In the President's reply, it was clear to us and you can check this on the magnetogram that Mr President has taken a different approach than our own assessment. Our assessment is that the government in this story of the SIB bank has been effectively responsible from the establishment and to this unfortunate purchase and that it has been aware of certain things. Secondly, we are not condemned to limit ourselves only to what is known to be expected to happen, namely that the Slovenian State will stand for a clear definition of responsibility and also punishment if it is established in the administrative procedure. That is why we have proposed and the question has been very clearly raised: Are you prepared to take those steps so that this purchase will be cancelled, that money will be returned and those responsible will be punished if this is found? Mr President has pledged that the government, under his leadership, will stand up to the conclusion of responsibility. We estimate that this is not enough, although I am glad that he promised it, not just a month ago, even today. I expect, as I have already said, not just words, we expect actions and concrete facts in this area. I would also like to mention the presentation of Mrs Montenegro's distinguished colleague, "when this affair is over", I wrote down. This affair cannot be concluded by our assessment in any other way than by cancelling this purchase, returning the money to the city of Ljubljana and determining the responsibility and penalties for carrying out the procedure. I would add something else to this that this National Assembly will assume its responsibility and with the government and with all the institutions to review this legislation, which has planned such gaps that allow these things. Also interesting was the presentation of colleague Jakič when he spoke about the research commission at local level in Ljubljana. I hope that in the context of the question that I have raised, it is clear to you that this is a bigger issue than can be resolved locally.I have no objection to it, but I would only warn you on the cover of Work, I think "the mountain was shaking and the commission was born". We're used to doing good commissions in this country. You know very well, Mr Jakič, you know very well what happened to such and other investigative commissions, how time passes, and then everything is under lock and never again knows what these gentlemen have been doing in previous compositions. We'll see. I am interested in much more, much more, in whether we will indeed be at the height of these demands, which this affair has revealed and broken into our legislation and in the regulation of our supervisory system. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we started a meeting on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Mr. Vice Governor was there. We have raised a number of questions, including whether one of those two audit houses that Banka Slovenije was in charge of due to irregular procedures in its audit work in 2001 - we asked him if it was related to the SIB bank, and the answer was "no". This is also a question that we hope will be answered. In fact, how is it possible that today, when we know that the shares were actually worth only 10% of what was said to be Mr Jaklič's mandate as city administration, was misled through supervisory institutions, how this could be done? We're gonna have to figure that out. We're gonna have to figure this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Now the Prime Minister has a chance to answer if he wants to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In the end, I want to take some things very briefly because I think it's important that they do. The first is the one mentioned in terms of quality and ratings, if you want, of Slovenian banks. Slovenian banks are good banks, they are safe banks and they are assessed in the region as better banks, in the region, wider in the region. Finally, this is also the fact that you yourself have been talking about, Mr Podobnik, the fact that they have increased our 'rating'. The international "rating" agency is talking about this, not only is fiscal policy highlighted in this assessment, it is also an assessment that the financial system is safe and that the situation in Slovenia is relatively favourable, and of course I do not want to deny that we have no problems, but relatively less and relatively better to solve them than in other comparable countries, including in some European Union Member States. The second point is that "the Prime Minister has a different approach than our assessment". There's two things going on here. We can talk about accession, we can talk about price. If we are talking about accession, then we are talking about the approach taken by the Prime Minister and what your approach is. Speaking of price, we're talking about price. So, don't mix these two things up. When we talk about accession, my approach is clear, I have repeatedly stressed it. Those who have acted improperly, those who have taken inappropriate decisions or even abused the situation, or even committed a crime, must answer. And I myself was the first one to point out that the relevant institutions must do whatever it takes to get to those responsible for these acts. And today I have also listed which institutions are rapidly working on this case, and I will insist on working on this case. As far as this approach is concerned, there is in fact no difference between us. As for the second part of the approach - unless it may be true that you do not believe that the responsibility of those who are guilty must be answered and ensured - there is probably no difference here, at least I would interpret it that way. The second thing about the return of the money you are talking about is that, if it is established in the liability procedure, the criminal offences in these transactions prove that this is a legal basis, based on the legal interest, that we also, of course, demand that the contract continue to be null and void. The legal basis is therefore a crime. And I am the last person in this Slovenia to say that in this case they would not demand the nullity of the contract. Of course, we will demand it, of course we will listen and do everything in our power to recover it. So that's the second point of approach. What's the difference is the score. My assessment was that when assessments are made, responsibility must be assessed on the basis of competence. To judge responsibility on the basis of what someone actually did and on what he was responsible and responsible. Of course, if we follow this principle, we do not mix things up or mix various problems. Once again, two problems, the First Problem, relate to the efficiency of the bank's operation, which is linked to the very way in which the bank was set up, the subject matter of the bank's operation and, of course, also to the mechanisms related to the supervision of the bank's operation during the period of the bank's operation. Another event we are talking about is the sale or purchase of shares. There is no doubt that this purchase of shares was rather poor, rather bad, and therefore all the circumstances in relation to this transaction need to be established. It is necessary to determine whether someone took advantage of this and, of course, to demand responsibility. As far as this is concerned, I think our views, if not with you, are quite close, at least with the other Members who have discussed here today. Of course, I hope that today's discussion in this sense of the transaction that is being carried out, the attempt to sell this bank, we have not done any damage and that the discussion that will continue will focus precisely on these points that I have been talking about. On the one hand, an analysis of the situation and what has ever happened, on the other hand, also an analysis of competence and responsibility. Then I believe that we will all work together to resolve the problem and that everything we do will ultimately make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u77	Good. The list is exhausted. Since there are no conclusions at this point, I will conclude the debate. It has already been mentioned several times today that we will also have an extraordinary meeting on this issue. And when we have it, tomorrow we'll decide to go to college at 12 o'clock. Until the next item in the agenda, I shall adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. Anybody else want to discuss this? I assumed not because I didn't see the hands. I didn't see the deadline. I didn't see the deadline. I'm closing the debate. I didn't see the deadlines. Someone else wants to discuss it. Not the replica, but the one who wants to discuss it again can raise his hand again. I'll share the time, but please. [[...]] I didn't see my hand, so I said. Who else wants it, because then it won't be anymore? Just a colleague of Dr. Bayuk's? Please, five minutes, Comrade Dr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you very much. It'll be less than that. Dear Mr. President! I hope you understand my question, too, why I do not agree with your answer. Not just then, even today. The important difference is that we have not heard from your mouth and from your presentations today that political decision that the Slovenian government will stand for this purchase to be cancelled. It's the first step, it's the first step. Of course, the return of money, but on the basis of cancellation, not on the basis of a judicial procedure that we well know how long it takes in our country in our time. That's why I can't agree with you. I find that there is a significant difference in this. I would also like to point out that I fully agree with what you have promised again today, that the government will stand by and that there will be a real assessment of responsibility and also sanctions against those who would be found responsible under the legal procedure. We have the same views on this. However, as regards your essential approach to the fact that this is the responsibility of the Ljubljana municipality and not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I cannot agree. The banking system is not only the responsibility of a certain government, it is the responsibility of our entire society, in the abstract sense, and in a very specific case, the responsibility of the Slovenian government from setting up to this unfortunate purchase is, in our opinion, quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u79	The Prime Minister. A short performance please, then I'll finish the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u80	I guess we didn't get along so well. I never claimed that this was just the responsibility of the city of Ljubljana. This is, of course, the responsibility of the city of Ljubljana in the part where Ljubljana has consequences. In the part where it relates to that other transaction that I was talking about, the purchase of shares and the bad purchase. In this part this is undoubtedly Ljubljana's responsibility. And in this part, Ljubljana must do everything it takes to get an answer, on the one hand, about who triggered it and who is responsible and about what it is responsible for, and that there will also be a cancellation of the contract if the legal basis is to do so. I am for this, too, but I have always stressed that other institutions are responsible here. The responsibility of all institutions that must exercise control, the responsibility of all institutions that must exercise control and in the part where these institutions are also subordinated to the government and are accountable to them, is also the responsibility of the government. The government has already launched its own, and we will continue to be responsible and to do our job in accordance with the powers I have told you about. In this context, I would also like to say that, if it becomes clear that they are crimes, we too will be in a position to end the treaty. Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Now I'm really closing the debate. We'll continue at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u82	Dear Members and honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the government, welcome to all! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. We're moving on to break 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR A DECISION ON AMENDING THE DECISION ON REFORMING THE UNIVERSE IN LOVE. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First of all, we will vote on the amendment of the LDS MPs and the United Nations and DeSUS groups to Article 1 of the decree. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. May I have your attention, please? For the second time, we are voting on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 1. We're voting. As the second vote has not been successful, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. At 4:14 a.m., we will vote on the amendment to Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u83	We will vote on the amendment of the parliamentary club and the two parliamentary groups to Article 1. May I have your attention, please? This is the third time we've voted. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the same motioners to Article 2. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 48 Members and Members voted against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the three parliamentary groups to Article 8. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment of the same motions to Article 9. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the last amendment to the title of the same motioners. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution amending the decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana in its entirety. I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of the vote by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this bill, which changes two universities in college, because this will give us the opportunity to continue scientific research work at these institutions. However, I wonder whether the graduates will have sufficient practical knowledge, those who will go to work as social workers working in a very, very sensitive area, to be able to face the problem of not just being scientifically and research-intensive at a high level, but they will not be practitioners. That's what I'm worried about. Thank you very much. But I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We heard an explanation for the voice. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the transformation of the University of Ljubljana in its entirety. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Period of the Day - Defence Bill on the Ratification of the Civil Law Convention on Corruption. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position was to be presented by only one parliamentary group, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go. [[He doesn't want a word either.]] As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 51 present, in favour of 49 votes against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ON COOPERATION IN PREVENTION OF NATURAL AND CIVILILIZATION ACCIDENTS The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 53 present, in favour of 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND MALTA ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBLE DUTIES AND THE PROTOCOL’S PROTOCOL’S COOPERATION COOPERATION COOPERATION. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. At 56, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Bill on Ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Australia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. 52 present, in favour of 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the collection of mandatory oil reserves and its derivatives. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments in the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the European Framework Convention on the Cross-border Cooperation of Territorial Communities or Areas. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with a representative of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[No, no, ……]] Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on Maritime Traffic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[No, no, ……]] As no amendments have been adopted in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments, so we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're moving to 22. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day love stuff. Under this item of the agenda, the assembly will consider the proposals for decisions, namely the election to judicial office, the three proposals for the appointment of a judge and the discharge of a judge. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana and the appointment of two Supreme Judges and one Supreme Court in the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Thank you very much. The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for conclusions to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on individual proposals for conclusions. We will first decide on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Orehar Ivanc to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Dr Mileta Dolenca to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Miodrag Georgevic to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 45 votes against 3. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Mrs Maria Verstovšek Bizjan to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of the judge of the jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] There are no announced debaters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Alojz Kogovšek from the post of Judge of the Jury of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to SUGGEST 2. Points of the agenda - This is for the third time a proposal for amendments and additions by the dealer on a parliamentary investigation. On Tuesday 25.3.2003, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft Rules of Procedure. Since no amendments have been adopted to the amended Rules of Procedure, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a third reading - to decide on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that Rules of Procedure will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the Rules of Procedure have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to SUPPLEMENT 4. It's on the third defensive proposal for the Home Register Act. On Tuesday, 25.03, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that the third consideration of the draft law would be carried out at that meeting on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Since no amendments had been tabled before the beginning of the consideration of the bill, the assembly will hold only a full debate on the draft law. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] On the proposal, I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does one of the Members or Members wish to discuss the bill? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. The legislative and legal service has not given any warnings, nor has the government that, due to the amendments adopted, the law might not be harmonised, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill in its entirety. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, including the Members and Members, thank you very much and good bye.
