ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u1	Your Honor! As I am initiating the 30th meeting of the National Assembly, which was convened pursuant to Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure, please, if you can take your seats. Before we move on to the agenda, I will inform you which of the colleagues and colleagues due to other obligations today cannot attend the first day of the meeting. These are colleagues of Battelli, Horvat, Jerovšek, Kangler, Dr Merlo, Partljič, Peterle, colleague of Possončeva, colleagues of Školč, Terčon, Weber, colleague of Orazmova and colleague Zamernik. At the meeting I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items. On the 1st point of Prime Minister Mag. Robbery, representative of the Council of Justice and representative of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations on agenda 30. I say hello to everyone in advance! Now the National Assembly will move on to the agenda for the 30th meeting. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This draft agenda was received by reference to the meeting on 17 October this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First, we will move on to a decision on the motions for withdrawal. As you know, the College of the President of the National Assembly, at its meeting on 24.10.2003, decided to hold a meeting of proposals for the opening of a constitutional amendment procedure, from 2 to 14 points in the proposal for a meeting, at an extraordinary meeting. The College therefore proposes that we withdraw these points from the agenda of this 30th meeting. I propose that we discuss all proposals for withdrawal together. If anyone so wishes - I suppose the government does not want a word, I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups who have up to three minutes of time at their disposal want a word? If the words on this decision, which has been unanimously adopted, are not desired by anyone, we will move on to individual decision-making, as we have said in the Rules of Procedure, to withdraw those items from the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 708 /II. We're voting. Excuse me! It's not working? It's not working. Good. I ask again before we re-vote to see if the voting devices work. In deciding, I propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 708 /II. We're voting. 57 present, 49 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I propose the same motion for a motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, EPA 702 /III. We're voting. 53 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] This proposal has also been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, EPA 700 /III. We're voting. All the votes are 12. 55 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by draft constitutional law, EPA 701/III. We're voting. 56 present, 46 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] This proposal has also been adopted. We will vote on the same proposal in the opening of the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, in the case of EPA 692 /III. We're voting. Please. 54 present, 45 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by draft constitutional law, EPA 703 /III. We're voting. 62 present, 50 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We move on to the same proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, EPA 365 /III. We're voting. 62 present, 52 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by draft constitutional law, EPA 377 /III. We're voting. 57 present, 48 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 390 /III. We're voting. 61 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the draft constitutional law, EPA 391 /III. We're voting. 64 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law, EPA 693 /III. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 49 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] Copy that. We have two more votes like this. First, on the motion to withdraw the motion to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution with the draft constitutional law, EPA 394/III. We're voting. 65 present, 50 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] Copy that. And finally for EPA 417 / III, this is the last vote. Please! We're voting. EPA 417 / III. 61 present, 48 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] This proposal is adopted. I have not received any proposals for enlargement so that we can decide on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and amendments adopted. Excuse me? An explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u2	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote against the draft agenda, as it is estimated that, for the first time, it is shameful that today the National Assembly has not been able to deal with the agenda items on constitutional amendments. And secondly, what we consider to be extremely unrealistic to individual political parties in the national party is that, despite the fact that we have addressed in our parliamentary group the work force, that the electoral law should not be considered in the national assembly, because the first signature will be absent that day, the national assembly or the leadership of the national assembly has passed after our assessment of the border of good taste and the bill has been considered, despite the fact that the proposer or the first-signature will not be present at the meeting and will not be able to defend the law. We further assess and expect, because this would only be in the sense of good cooperation between this national assembly, so that the wishes or demands of individual Members or Members' groups are taken into account. However, since this elasticity has, of course, not yet been addressed or taken into account by this national assembly, we will oppose the agenda in the national party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u3	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Okay, then the National Assembly will decide on the agenda. Please, we're voting! 69 present, 48 for and 10 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the National Assembly has set the agenda for this meeting and that we can begin the consideration of individual points. The first will be at 3 p.m. when the Prime Minister and the Minister and the ministers answer your questions. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u4	Once again, I give everyone a good day! Can you please all take your seats? We will continue the meeting of the National Assembly at 1 / 1 DOCTOR OF THE DAY'S LINE OF QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE MESSAGES. We will first hear the questions that are addressed to the Prime Minister. I would like to draw attention to the fact that some ministers have apologized for other obligations, Minister But, Kopač, Minister Kovaceva, Ministers Maramor, Rupel and also Dr Gaber. I believe that we can move on to the question of the Member States. The first three, as it were said, are from the groups of the opposition parties. First of all, Comrade Peter Levich, Prime Minister. You have time for a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to the Prime Minister and all the ministers present! My question concerns the issue of young people who are involved in the school process under the Adult Education Act and who, following a new interpretation of the rules on the conditions for the performance of employment agencies and other regulations, should not perform temporary and occasional work through employment agencies. The right to the temporary and occasional work of young people stems from the distant year 1964 and has been preserved to this day. Today, this right has a legal basis in the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment and in the Regulation on the conditions for the performance of the activities of employment agencies. There are many young people who leave secondary education for various reasons. Problems with perception of learning material, disciplinary problems, lack of interest, and often serious social problems within the family are just some of the reasons for leaving high school. Data show that almost 1 in 4 students does not complete secondary education. It is only after a year or two and after difficulties in finding employment that these young people tend to become aware of the importance of education and start looking for a way to complete an interrupted study. One possibility of education by law is adult education. This law currently educates more than 10,000 young people, 75% of whom are under the age of 25 and tend to come from socially weak areas. In the last week, the department of department issued an official explanation of the regulation, which now makes all this impossible. These students, or youths, who choose to take advantage of another career opportunity, are disabled. For example, comparing it to a positive example in students. Students or so-called exceptional students who also pay their studies and who are not employed and who are not registered at the unemployment institution are among the exceptions and may perform temporary and occasional work under Article 5 of the same Regulation. Why, then, is it not possible for students who also pay for their studies and who are not employed or registered at the employment institution? This provision is particularly incomprehensible because it has no financial implications for the state budget. On the contrary, student homes are being built from the concession, funds for development and the full state budget are being allocated. In addition, entries in the so-called special programmes for the acquisition of secondary school titles for this year have been completed. All these young people have joined the good faith to continue to have the opportunity to pay for their own work when they have not benefited from the first free of charge for such or other reasons. This is essentially about changing the rules of the game when this game is already running. That's why I'm asking you: In what way will you eliminate the discriminatory situation of young people who, due to interpreting regulations and other regulations, have lost the possibility of being able to afford, in a fair manner, to perform temporary and occasional work through employment agencies, to continue to use money to pay them for their already well-deserved evening schools and thus open up the possibility of obtaining an education? This will enable them to work and work, which is the basis for a person's decent life and prerequisite for any serious reflection on the realization of dreams of family creation, buying or renting an apartment, possibly even further university education. Then what's left for young people, if you take away their only competitive advantage, that's education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u7	Thank you so much for asking. So this is a problem for young people involved in the school process under the Adult Education Act. In answer to this question, it would probably be worth saying that in Slovenia, work has been arranged through student services in order to enable all Slovenian students, as well as students, who are included in the regular study and educational programme, to further work, to earn extra money and thus to make the social situation easier. This system has long been in place and relatively well functioning. The arrangements and the way this work was regulated have been arranged with student organisations years ago. We agreed that - even when I was also the Minister of Labour myself - we would regulate any changes to the rules in this area in agreement, that is, on the basis of a discussion in the world on student issues with the government. In July of this year, the Regulation governing this area was amended and this Regulation has been harmonised for a year and a half. The rule was complete - so I was specifically mentioned when I examined - in line with all student organisations in Slovenia and the essence of this rule is to equalise the operating conditions of student services, and what is very important to ensure better substantive control over the resources earned by students and students who will be collected in one account and in this context the Court of Auditors has special powers. All these changes were very meaningful and also unitedly supported. However, with regard to the specific situation of those young people involved in education as unemployed, special arrangements have been in place all the time, which are now explicitly regulated by interpretation and this Regulation. This is that those who re-engage, and those who re-engage, are about 10,000, will be given a new opportunity to re-engage, this is what the State, the Employment Institute, will finance their education. In addition to education, they are also financed by scholarships, in short additional funds, and are entitled to social assistance and have a special status for this, those participants in active employment policies coming from the unemployed. And so their status is not a student or a student. This is because it is not a formal and in fact such status. As a result, they are not expected to work occasionally at a time when they are reintegrated into education. Of course, they are expected to be able to engage in regular work and re-employment at any time. And this is the arrangement that was in force and that is now only more precisely defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u8	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u9	Just for a little while. In fact, there are quite a few of these young people, as you yourself have mentioned, there are 10,000 of them. In fact, not only are there some points on paper, but there are also young people, unfortunately with problems that concern all of us. They have not completed their studies, and the goal of all of us is likely to make it possible for these young people, because, last but not least, they will, they are our craftsmen, they are making our destiny. It would not be possible to supplement the rules on the conditions for implementation, in Article 5 of these things are listed, perhaps what should be done? However, these are people who are weak, I will say, social areas and have some problems in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u10	Thank you, Comrade Levich. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u11	Dear Member. These young people have stepped out of the education process and with a specific programme of active employment policies we have allowed them to re-engage in education, to educate themselves and to become competitive in the labour market. And in this context they are, I would say, an exception to the exception in the sense that they are fully paid for by education to pay for their scholarships and, of course, they are expected to take advantage of this opportunity. They will take advantage of it if they are educated and especially educated. And that's what the whole arrangement is about. If anyone within the student organisations believes that there is a need for further arrangements for these young people, then, of course, there is a possibility of discussion within the world on student issues operating within the government. And this discussion will be held and will also take place in this context of the relationship between those who regularly study or study exceptionally, who are regularly involved in the study and educational process. And these young people, who are 10,000, who are very important, are devoted to quite a lot of attention in terms of funding.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič will now ask the Prime Minister a question. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's been a lot of talk lately about eraseds. Mr Krivic is expanding his anti-Slovenian action and making a beautiful savior, thus pushing the Slovenian nation into an ever deeper debt, from which we will soon no longer have a way out. But what's interesting is who's helping Mr. Guilty. I'm going to read his letter, which says, "The change is quite shocking. In fact, so-called eraseds have now been favored by everything, so to speak." It goes on to say, "I only found out the moment that I opened the computer after other obligations in the evening and examined the text of both laws sent to me from the ZLSD." It's a combined list, if anyone doesn't know. "I believe that these changes took place on 13 or 14 October, and not at a government meeting on 9 October immediately after this meeting, the Executive Secretary of LDS Biščak informed me only that they had removed from the law the worst unconstitutionality, the exclusion of the status of officers and so on." And she wonders, "What later led to such a dramatic turnaround "I don't know, the pressure of the Runt and the ZLSD, the pressure of the School and the work of the LDS?" In short, what's going on? Now all the soldiers, all the officers of the Yugoslav People's Army, who beat Slovenia, who pushed it and then continued their work elsewhere, will receive the status of the poor extermination in Slovenia, will receive the funding. After all, what was deleted from this law is written by Krivic. "The last indent of this paragraph, which reads as follows: If a foreigner as an active military or civilian person employed in JLA has left Slovenia because of the withdrawal of JLA from Slovenia, if a foreigner has left RS as an active or civilian person employed in JLA despite the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia of 26.6. if the foreigner has left the Republic of Slovenia for participation in armed conflicts in the successor countries." Great, these people will now receive about 850 billion tolls of so-called compensation, for which even Krivic says that it is not necessary to justify ourselves, but says, "Our society is proposing to the state even a settlement to recommend to all affected landings only for the compensation of half the damage if the state were willing to pay it without justification." In short, those who have been illegally in Slovenia for 12 years and the Ministers of the Interior who were then should be processed because such a number of illegals have not been expelled from Slovenia will now sign decrees to strike Slovenian taxpayers in the pocket. This counts at least 300,000 tolars per head of each, including the last baby. I ask the Prime Minister: Do you really intend to enforce this law in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u15	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. So, as far as the systemic regulation of this area is concerned, I have answered your question once before, namely, by saying that the government will respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is, of course, one of the foundations of the rule of law for us and it would be totally unimaginable not to do so. We have done so, we have done so in the way that the legal profession has proposed, in two parts, although some have disagreed with it - including you and the one you specifically mention, through the so-called technical law that you will briefly consider and through the system law that has been dealt with at the government meeting. Both laws were exclusively and mainly for the enforcement and enforcement of a Constitutional Court decision, of course in the context of the protection of human rights, to which the Constitutional Court refers. I would like to assure you that, and not least, this debate in the National Assembly will show that neither of these two laws, in particular with regard to the substantive, do not grant the right automatically, but, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the criteria under which anyone, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and the laws, will be able to take advantage of this right can in the end benefit of that right. So no one, except those who are entitled under Article 8 of the Constitutional Court Decision, will automatically get this right back. It will have to meet the criteria set out in Articles 4 and 5 of the substantive, system-wide law on "exterminations". So all those who have violated Slovenia have committed crimes, those of course of these conditions and will not be able to meet this criterion and will not be able to obtain this right. Otherwise, you will be exactly about these criteria, I believe you will have a very extensive discussion here. This discussion will be public and you will be able to propose your solutions, your proposals, and if these proposals are such that they make sense that, of course, even within the meaning of the Constitution, constitutionality will be acceptable, then I believe that they will be discussed. It is a matter of enforcement of a decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u16	Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u17	Well, I'm not happy with this, because it's just about throwing words that are very beautifully written in this law and allowing people to actually get another five, six thousand people that weren't here again. In fact, excuses about human rights beings being "deleted" are constantly being discussed, which are themselves responsible for this, because at the time they did not respect the constitutional law that imposed on them the time limit by which they had to regulate the status of a citizen or a foreigner. And now these people will be rewarded! What, though, about human rights for honest citizens? Or do honest citizens have human rights and have them as cheaters and speculators? It's very strange everything in this country. It is said that Europe is also pressing, which is a simple lie, because the Commissioner of Europe against racism and intolerance, Michael Head, has made it clear that solving this problem is our internal issue and that any comment he makes would be interfering with the internal affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder or find that what the government majority is doing is contrary to the interests of the Slovenian nation and this is the economic murder of its own people. And it seems that the government majority will complete what the Yugoslav People's Army started with tanks; there JLA failed because we rose. Some of these gentlemen who are sitting here have been setting up parties for Yugoslavia, and they are still squawking "the life of Yugoslavia", when some of us fought. And since today people can no longer take short shots into their hands to defend their property, it looks like you're going to bury them with this criminal law of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u18	Anything else you'd like to add, Mr. Prime Minister? No, no, no. Then your next question will be asked by colleague Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u19	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Specific decisions of the executive and judicial authorities are increasingly being implemented in Slovenia, which, with their direct and indirect effects, establish legal inequalities between citizens. In the course of the property review, many billions of damages were detected to all taxpayers. Over 700 criminal charges have been filed, but it is not known that any of the applicants would have been charged and convicted in any way. However, it is well - known that all have become more or less extremely rich. What's with the 700 calls? To the Mayor of Cyprus, Popovic was tapped, followed, imprisoned and accused, even though he owed him, if all were to be summed up and proved, for some 10% of the damage, as in the case of the well-known SIB bank. None of the most responsible for a billion-dollar theft in the SIB bank is anything like Popovic. The Attorney General commented on the charges against the Foreign Minister, quote: "This is a very serious matter". This is a matter of eight million tolars that have not been indicated. So it's for verbal delinquency. The SIB has at least three billion tolars, and the Attorney General has never said that this is a serious matter. More than that, the criminal charges we sent back early last year still haven't been found. Of course, because they're responsible for stealing a part of the elite in power. The former mayor of the small Slovenian municipality of Sveti Jurij ob Ščavnica Slavko Mihelič was sentenced to one year in prison on a conditional basis this year because he was supposed to illegally bill one daily amounting to 18,000 tolars. Clearly, he didn't belong to either LDS or the United List. In recent months, we have been monitoring several attempts to demolish facilities owned by the entrepreneur and inventor Franco Stroj. In addition to his building, there is a hunting lodge, which was built without construction permission, and no one is trying to tear it down. In 1997 it was discovered and proved, and this was also discussed in this room, the attempt to bribe Paul Rupar. Šimenc Igor, who tried to bribe him, was never accused, but received from the LDS a prize as Secretary General of the Slovenian Railways. Where was the investigation, Mr. Rop? I'm asking: What will the government do to ensure that the executive authorities are equal in all their proceedings? What will it do to bring about systemic changes in the judiciary, since, of course, the executive branch must not interfere with specific procedures in order to obtain a truly effective and impartial judiciary? And I'm asking: When will the government replace the Attorney General, who is apparently very biased?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u21	Thank you for asking. The question is aimed at the fundamental principle of the Constitution, that is equality before the law. In this regard, of course, I can say that - and you all know that the constitutional principle of equality before the law is implemented directly and that they have the duty to exercise this principle in all branches of government, both enforceable, legislative and judicial. And if anyone knows of such an act or is in such a situation, he has every opportunity to complain to the relevant authorities appropriately and to decide, to decide within his jurisdiction, such a Supreme Court, which in some of these cases, of course, you are now talking about unilaterally, impartially and of course only taking the cases that suit you, and mixing the powers of the executive, the judicial authority and the legislative authority, because you want to show the guilty party for something that is not actually happening or you are confusing the competence and responsibility of different institutions. What we can say here is, for the first time, this principle, the second time, the police and the police activities and what the government has done about the police. As early as 1998, a new law on the police had been passed, which had excluded the police from the Ministry and designated it as a body in the composition, just to allow, as this law provides, its independence and appropriate expertise. A relatively exemplary cooperation between the police and the prosecution has been established in the past period. You can check this exemplary cooperation with international institutions that have come to see how this cooperation works in a number of cases. For example, you've just been talking about four cases. Currently, the D.A. has 43,000 complaints. And Interpol representatives, Europol, as well as foreign police, have found out about the Dagras for exemplary cooperation. In some specific cases, this cooperation has also proved to be good and has led to certain results. More than once, he is the director of the police - the current one, which is difficult to say is politically oriented or particularly favoured by the position or LDS, which you so often mention and which you probably encounter several times - he specifically said is a case of various cases of crime investigation. In some cases, procedures and offences are still ongoing and one method and one methodology is used. In other cases, crimes have already been committed and other cases have been used. All these cases that you have discussed are dealt with in the procedures and the competent institutions. These competent institutions are, in some cases, under the control of the Government or partly under the supervision of the Minister for Home Affairs, but in many other cases they are not and in some cases are also under the control of the National Assembly. So, what has the government done? Certainly this law on police is, according to my assessment, a big step in this direction, which ensures greater professionalism and independence. You know that there has been a change to the Criminal Code Act, which regulates some things for a new one, which defines certain penalties for new ones. The Penal Code will be sent to the National Assembly in a short time and it has already been made public what will be contained in the Penal Code and, of course, the competent ministers can also say more in this regard. The government has discussed and adopted a strategy for the management of economic crime in the Republic of Slovenia. This will also be addressed by the National Assembly. Last but not least, you can see that, on the basis of this strategy, more resources for criminal education are also available in the budget, an anti-corruption law is being drawn up, which you think makes no special sense. But you argue with this, and you've publicly argued that criminals are uneducated, unqualified to go to individual cases of high school people who do not have the necessary skills. Data obtained from the police show today that 93% of criminals, 130 involved in economic crime, higher education or higher education. So don't hold what you're saying in public. The investigation of criminal offences in Slovenia is also above the average in the European Union, i.e. Europol data. This means that this story is not as black and white as you want to show it. We are aware that economic crime is a problem, we are aware that it is necessary to deal with it and with instruments that are available to the government and that can be dealt with and, of course, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u22	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u23	with the proportionate responsibility of all authorities, executive, legislative and judicial. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr President, time is just as limited for everyone. My friend Janš wants to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u25	I asked five short and clear questions, the answer was very long and very unclear. It does not claim that the government has no jurisdiction over certain institutions. I asked you clearly: Where will the government propose systemic changes because it must not interfere with judicial proceedings? And what will it do to ensure that the specific conduct of the executive or executive body, to which it has all powers, is equal? Last but not least, what you have just read or quoted has been prepared for you by the Ministry of the Interior, the State Prosecutor's Office. If you had no jurisdiction over these institutions, these answers would not have been written to you either. By the way, there is a farce when these questions need to be announced in advance, then the whole administration prepares the answers and many times read things that have nothing to do with specific questions. I do not think this is happening in any other Parliament. In normal parliaments, the opposition asks, the government answers, not that you have to announce questions in advance for a week. With regard to the equality of conduct between the executive or the government, including cases such as the involvement of the government itself and the executive and law enforcement authorities with its own member, the foreign minister against whom you have initiated criminal proceedings today or have filed a request for an investigation, I would ask: How can they do something a little different in another case, why don't you investigate the Culture Minister who co-financed an advertising campaign for the private newspaper Mladina, which is now going through the media and also in the gallery? Why is there no investigation and no criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u26	Please, President, for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u27	So, Your Honor! Farsa is that you are declaring a farce answer that has specific information that has facts that are not based solely on what has been made. You've made more of a statement lately, and today I've told you which one is in mind. And if it's a farce to warn you what you're saying, then I really don't know what a farce is. I want to tell you this. In that answer you gave me, you deceived the public again. The government has not initiated an investigation against Dimitri Ruple. A motion has been tabled against Dimitri Rupla to open an investigation into the court. And the government has nothing to do with it, unless you think so, unless you think the prosecution is part of the government. However, everyone in this national council knows that the prosecution is not part of the government. And if you're saying that the prosecution is part of the government, then you're deceiving the Slovenian public, and that's unacceptable. One more thing. I told you, I explicitly told you what systemic changes the government has proposed. I told you, I gave them to you. Ministers can also tell you exactly what any of these systemic changes are implying. And I don't understand why you're asking me again what systemic changes the government is proposing. I've told you this before, and I won't tell you again. But later ministers can say again, and again explain precisely for each of the systemic changes what it foresees, what it contains and which problems will be easier to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u28	Mr. Prime Minister, the government appoints [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u29	Please, you don't have a word, Comrade Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u30	The government appoints prosecutors.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u31	You don't have a word. Please don't use this way to get everyone to take the floor, because otherwise it's technically possible, but I think it's non-legislative. If everyone did it, there would be a mess. Okay. Mr Levič wants to ask the Minister for Environment, Space, Energy further, but as I said, Minister Kopač is not. Will you move this to the next session? Okay. Neither is the Minister of Finance, who wants to be questioned by Master Drobnic. And Master Petty Officer will tell himself whether he will ask this question at the next meeting, or whether he will ask it for a written question. But certainly the Minister of Justice is here. You're gonna ask him a question now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-welcome representatives of the government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I'd like to ask Mr. Marble a question. This time, of course, he's gone, and I don't know how much longer I have to wait for the Minister to come to Parliament and answer the question. I will repeat the question and insist once again that it be answered in writing to answer orally in the National Assembly. Even if there are maybe 15 or 20 questions at the end of this mandate period, which have not been answered by ministers, I will ask for an oral answer. So, once again, I am asking a question about the functioning of the tax administration or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u33	Comrade Petty Officer, you will ask this question next time, Dr. Marble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u34	Today I will. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u35	You've already stopped him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u36	I'm going to set him up today because I have the right to set him up and then let him answer verbally next time, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u37	Mr. Secretary has explained this one last time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u38	So people will know what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u39	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u40	Thank you very much. It's been 15 seconds, please, if you'll give me my time back.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u42	In December 1997, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision on irregularities in the payment of taxes, contributions and liabilities to the State and other charges by the Ljubljana pawnshop. The tax administration carried out inspections and identified a type of irregularity, an irregular billing of taxes, contributions and also of late interest. In the sentence of the decision, it imposed on the pawnbroker the payment of taxes on personal benefits, interest on late payment of rent taxes, late interest on rents, payment of turnover taxes and interest on late payment of profits tax for 1995 and late interest and a number of other obligations. The procurator complained about the decision issued. The Ministry of Finance stated in the decision that the complaint does not hold enforcement. So we should get to the execution. It shall be noted from the documentation that the general time limit for the enforcement of the decision is overdue, despite the fact that it is five years. So, for five years, the Treasury didn't do anything. In this regard, I am interested in: What reasons were there for not being able to recover that debt within five years? And I want to know: How many more obligations are in the record that are no longer obligations and there has been huge damage to the state budget? And now the second question, I am also asking a question regarding the issue of bonds, Mr Marble, to the finance minister. As you know, in August 2001 the first edition of the Eurobond was paid, totalling $325 million. This was also known by the predecessor of Dr. Marble, Mr. Rob, at the Ministry. Therefore, in 2001 the government decided to reissue the euro bonds to cover the old debt. There's been a mistake. Given the then inter-currency movements, when the dollar grew compared to the euro, they decided to nominate the euro bonds in US dollars or in euros, not in dollars, as before. As we know, then this inter-currency relationship has changed very much, so that in the end the Euro-dollar ratio is 1:15. Before that, it was $0.8. If they had decided at that time, when issuing these euro bonds, to be nominated in US dollars, as before, this debt would have been significantly lower, significantly smaller. This amount can be estimated at 30 billion tolars. I'm asking: Will someone in the finance ministry and government be responsible for such a disastrous decision? And the following question: Is there a procedure in the system for concluding debt arrangements abroad to choose better methods and forms? And perhaps on this issue too: Could the government have been thinking - or is it doing so - to protect itself from unforeseen inter-currency changes? So these are the questions addressed to Dr. Marble, and they are not answered. I hope that he will decide to visit Parliament at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Now it's a matter of concern. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u43	Can I just ask you - do you want to ask him this question in such a way that he will answer you orally?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u44	That's right, answer verbally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u45	Can you just turn off the computer for a second? Thank you very much. Well, now, if you can re-engage, Comrade Drobnic, and also ask the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for that gentlemen's move. Now the question for the Minister of Justice, Mr Biszak. The question will be brief. The State often complains in court proceedings, even in those where it is clear and in advance known that it will lose its claim. This is particularly true in denationalisation procedures, which have been going on for a long time. This builds up judicial backlogs and reduces legal certainty and, as has already been said, judicial backlogs. In the end, the country will also be harmed due to huge late interest and costs. I want to know: Why do such decisions come about? And is it possible that the Ministry has instructed the competent authorities to appeal in any case, with a clear intention of delaying the obligations of the State or that judicial backlogs or judicial decisions should be postponed for a later period? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u47	Please, Minister Bizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u48	Mr. President, the honourable Member! The direction to lodge complaints where there is no reason to do so is by no means the direction given by the Government to the State Attorney's Office. The instructions to do so are not. On the contrary, the Government has repeatedly taken a position, both on all matters in which it represents the Republic of Slovenia, as well as on denationalisation, that it should also be considered by the competent ministries when the complaint is substantiated and, in those cases, in fact, require the State defence to file such a complaint. As you know, the State Attorney's Office, in accordance with the Law on State Defence, represents the State, its authorities and administrative organisations in the composition of legal persons before the courts, and also in administrative proceedings. According to the law on denationalisation, it represents the interests of the party concerned when the application is made for real estate owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, on the basis of a decision adopted by the Government in August 2000, the State defence has to report regularly on the resolution of denationalisation cases. The last report covers the period from 1 June to the end of August of this year and I would like to take only a few figures from it, which quite clearly show that the claim that there are actually unnecessary complaints does not. During that period, the State defence authorities received 324 partial or final decisions of the I-level bodies in denationalisation cases. Complaints were lodged against 15 decisions, representing only 4.63% of the decisions taken, certainly an extremely small proportion in relation to the total number of decisions issued. Of these 15 complaints, 3 were withdrawn during the same period, I suppose due to the issue of corrective decisions. During the same period, seven complaints were decided on by the administrative authorities of Grade I, with a positive decision on all of them. At the second stage of the complaint, 17 and 12 decisions have been taken, i.e. where the complaint has been heard, and in 5 cases the complaint has been rejected. This relationship also shows that the complaints were to a large extent justified or that the competent authority which decided on them found that there were serious reasons why the complaints had to be heard. Therefore, in the administrative court of that period, the State defence brought only 3 actions, of which 2 is of public interest, i.e. in cases where the State's defence is not acting as a representative of the State, but when representing the public interest and acting as a party to the proceedings. Therefore, these data, which could have been given for a longer period or for any other period, show that these data do not claim that there is a speculative submission of complaints, to lodge complaints at any cost, solely in order to prolong or complicate the procedure, in particular in these cases of denationalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u50	Of course, the complaint numbers themselves do not say everything they are. It is also very important, for what kind of injury or for what the causes of this conflict are, what they are. Maybe marginal things or small amounts have a different effect than some cardinal things in Slovenia. We know that key things do not go as well as necessary. Now, speaking of denationalisation procedures, Mr Minister, you yourself have mentioned how quickly this will be resolved, practically 90 or 100%. Now, despite the fact that the three-year period behind you, of course, the denationalisation procedures have not been completed for a long time. So, what you've been predicting isn't true. Your efforts and the efforts of the competent institutions are not appropriate, at the end of the day, even with the European Convention on Human Rights, that such judgments should be concluded within a reasonable time rather than in the 15 years. That is why this warning applies to you and all your services to do what the rule of law requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to add your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u52	You have not given any reason to conclude that, according to the value of the objects, the complaint is more or less intense. So if there are such data, I'd like you to get it, so we can see exactly what it's all about. However, I have no reason, even after monitoring all the other information we receive from the defence authorities, to assume that it is such conduct, that is different, given the value of the individual claims or the value of the property to be decided on. With regard to the denationalisation process itself. True, this process has been going on for too long. The Ministry of Justice does not decide on denationalisation, it does not run these procedures, it should be stressed that it is overly placed as something within the competence of the Ministry. These procedures are mostly decided by administrative units and in some ministries. That a plan to complete denationalisation has been made, that this plan is implemented, that administrative units, unfortunately, are not as successful as they themselves have anticipated, this should be stressed, and this is also considered a criticism of this work. However, this process is nearing its end and I am counting on it to be completed in an appropriate period. It is not something to say hello to, however, for the entire duration of these procedures. We expected it to go any faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Next thing you know, she's gonna put up a colleague of mine. Spending. The Minister of Finance, who is not, will you send him the question in writing? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I was going to ask the oral question to Minister Dusan Maramor. I'll set him up and ask for an oral response at the next session. The question is this: "Sometimes the debate on the implementation of municipal budgets in the first half of this year, and the proposed rebalans of municipal budgets draw attention to the difficulties of local communities in achieving the planned revenues, which are the result of July's new government forecast on the basic economic baselines for 2003. The effects of amended legislation, on the one hand, have also been shown to reduce expected revenues and, on the other hand, to increase the legal obligations of local communities. While these are the most common opportunities for better regulation and quality of life for individual areas of the local community. At the same time, they are increasing the level of resources that the local community is obliged to provide, reducing the share of resources it can freely dispose of and plan for its development. Nor does it show disregard for warnings that even greater problems with the forecasting amended legislation are forecasting, some predict a financial breakdown of local communities in 2005. I therefore ask the Finance Minister, Dr Dusan Mramor: How do you plan to bridge the ever-increasing obligations imposed by the State on local communities without providing them with financial resources and reduced revenues, unless it is already eliminated at least to narrow them down? I expect a future oral response from the Finance Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Saša Pece will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u56	Your Honors are here! The 1993 White Paper of the European Union provides that employment policy is the responsibility of national countries and not of the European Union as an institution. On the other hand, the European Union is helping to guide when certain instruments can be used to help the economy on the one hand and, of course, to reduce the unemployed. Let me say that the most common instruments proposed by the European Union are grants, tax reliefs, guarantees and the like. I also stress, in order to facilitate understanding of the issue, that the European Union determines which instruments are allowed and which instruments are not allowed. Those who destroy economic competitiveness and similar situations are not allowed. However, all instruments that Member States can use must, of course, pursue the most important objective of reducing the number of unemployed or, in other words, creating and maintaining jobs. The European Union also allows certain financial injections in the form of different funds in its guidelines. In particular, 4 funds are devoted to employment. A little bit more about them next time. However, with all the objectives, instruments and instructions, the European Union sets out or foresees that national governments are, of course, responsible governments. These are governments that want them to be as low as possible in their country and that as many jobs as possible will be maintained when they enter individual integrations. Unfortunately, we cannot claim this for the Slovenian government and the Ministry of Economy. According to the latest statistics, the unemployment rate is increasing. Macro-economic analysis shows that the unemployment rate will increase in the coming years. Taking into account the fact that we are entering the European Union full-fledgedly after a while, taking into account the fact that, with the entry into the European Union, we will receive a much stronger competitive market, we must be aware that, according to some estimates, we will lose some 40,000 jobs in our country. My question is: What will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Economy do to prevent the loss of 40,000 jobs? According to my assessment and to the assessment of the National Party, the blame is solely in the legislative and executive branch of the Authority. The fact is that this Parliament has adopted legislation on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and this legislation has literally been copied by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the context of the European Union, i.e. from those countries that have somehow been in the market economy for 40 and 50 years. The basic sin was committed because we have adapted these legislation to the situation in Slovenia, we have not adapted it to economic operators, but we have just announced to them, that and you must do so, regardless of whether they are capable. The question is: what will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do to ensure that 40,000 new unemployed people will not occur in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u57	Madam Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Employment policy, the creation of various labour funds and the like fall within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. As you said, this is actually a real issue not only of one source, but of national governments, it is said, from different ministries, which, by their actions, affect the conditions of governance in the country. But if you allow me, I will explain the part about how the Ministry of the Economy contributes to these conditions so that such catastrophic assessments that have been made - and we know how they have been done and why they have been made - will not happen. I know, given how they were made, of course, that's not going to happen. However, as these assessments have been made, ask those who have done so, because I think it is wrong that I give all the assumptions of econometric analysis that have been made so that 57,000 employees have come to the public. Maybe just for illustration: even if you only count the entire employees in the labour intensive industries, you would have trouble getting this number because all the labour intensive industries should disappear from the surface overnight, which we know is not the case. If I now turn to the question of what the Ministry of the Economy is planning, with what policy and what we have done at that time, I would say this. For the first time, when we are talking about job conservation, I think it is clear to everyone that job conservation will only be possible if the productivity of the Slovenian economy is at the productivity level of those economies whose competition we expect. That is why it is all the more important that we implement these development policy measures, or competitiveness and enterprise development policies, as are the other countries ahead of us in productivity. As a result of the three-year implementation of this policy, from 2001 to today, I can tell you that the result of 4,000 newly created jobs, namely jobs that represent highly productive jobs, and that with 15 billion development funds, we have encouraged around 340 billion development investments by companies themselves, in key factors, productivity factors such as knowledge of technology management and new organisational receptions. We have also dealt specifically with labour-intensive activities in order to increase productivity and thus maintain jobs in these activities. For the development restructuring of textile, footwear, footwear, clothing and leather industries, we have spent 4 billion on development changes within these companies since the programme began in 2000. I must say that even though it is constantly said that forgiveness takes place in these activities, these activities have employed 150 experts in precisely those key areas, such as technology, marketing and, of course, the organisation of work, in order to move these companies to higher production, production of higher added value. I must also say that, if we are talking about maintaining jobs, even under this problem-solving law, we have, in fact, maintained, if we are looking only from last year on, around 5,000 jobs. I must say that an active employment policy, which must follow this development policy, is very important in maintaining jobs, precisely in order to re-qualify those who, in fact, cannot produce products of high added value with a low qualification structure. In short, I can assure you that our government is very active in this area and that we are one of the leaders in the protection of so-called positive freedom compared to other countries, especially Central European countries, as well as developed market economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u59	Complimentary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u60	The activity of the Slovenian government is unfortunately reflected in the fact that the latest statistics show the decline of employees in our country. I asked you a question because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was the contracting authority from which I was collecting the study. If you're blinking your head now, it means you don't know the matter, which means the government's poor coordination. On the other hand, they also dealt with approximately the same material in the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, where they found that the expected slower distortion of the tolar would result in a real fracture in the Slovenian economy. There is no way I can satisfy your answer, since we once proposed to the National Assembly a law on aiding social problems when you know exactly that this law was written solely to help Mura, which I do not object to. Personally, as well as our party, I would like this country to help all the 40,000 who will lose their jobs because of this government, because it has not been able to protect and create a competitive economy. Let me call you again from this place, we are obviously the only ones in the Slovenian National Party who are aware of this fear and we have also begun writing the law, the law on ensuring the rights of workers who, due to Slovenia's entry into the EU, are being reduced or removed from the labour force. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was not even so elastic as to join in writing this law. That is why I call on all trade unions, as well as all social partners, to give their views on what should be done in this country in order to protect those who are not guilty of losing their jobs, because the government has not been able to write laws that are adapted to our country. I sincerely hope that at least the social partners will respond to the request of the National Party if you are already not prepared to respond to our request within the Ministry of the Economy and protect jobs before it is too late. Madam Minister, you probably do not know what the status of the unemployed person means, the consequences of its further development. It would be nice for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take time once and take a meaningful look at such terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u61	Please, Madam Secretary. Please be careful. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u62	You don't have to be insulting, who or how. As regards employment policy, I reiterate that this is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, so I ask that you turn to the competent ministry in this regard. As regards the study you are quoting, it must be said that the contracting authority of the macro-economic work was the Ministry of Finance, while the second part related to micro was not yet completed and the Ministry of Economy. We don't have the results yet. I know this study that you quoted very well, so I also told you what the problem of this study is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u63	Thank you. He may now make a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u64	On behalf of preventing future confusion within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when one minister does not know what another minister is doing, and on behalf of the fact that the Minister of Economy is also aware of unemployment in our country, I propose that the State Assembly hold a debate on how we can protect workers, what law we must adopt and give guidance to the Government, I repeat, the ignorant Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to this issue. At the same time, I call on all parties to leave selfish interests around electoral legislation, Socialdemocrati, Nova Slovenija, United List, LDS, and to deal with such a matter. And not only are they looking at how they're going to get into the National Assembly next year, but they're becoming a priority to save 40,000 jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u65	My colleague Peca, on your procedural proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to your question, the National Assembly will decide without discussion tomorrow at the beginning of the vote on the issues that will otherwise be on the agenda of tomorrow's session. My colleague Kelemin wants to ask the Minister of Justice a question. There is no competent minister for the environment. I ask, will you ask an oral question and also ask for an oral answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. Your Honor, Mr President, a procedural question. I ask how many times a minister can announce his absence. Mr. Digger is not here for the second time. Last time I asked a question, he was gone. Today is the next session, he's gone again. He didn't even answer the previous question, not in writing, of course he can't because he's gone. Today, I want to ask again, although the answer to the previous question is, I want to ask a new question and again I cannot. I ask: How long can the Minister avoid sending questions or answers if he knows precisely and the government knows exactly when this point of questions will be scheduled? Only this please answer me that all other Members will also know when, or can or can we have any instruments in the National Assembly, that the Minister is humbly, politely or in what style we ask to come and answer important questions. Since there is no answer to important questions, economic damage occurs every day. If the government were to act effectively on the basis of our questions, there could be serious economic damage due to the lack of action by the Ministry within one month. Please, if you answer that first, and then I will ask the Members' questions, at least the ones I intended to ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u67	Of course, I will politely answer your question, although you know that the answer can be read in the Rules of Procedure. Ministers and ministers shall participate in this agenda item. You also know that the Rules of Procedure do not provide for sanctions or penalties if this does not happen. Nor is it stated in the rules of procedure how many times a person may be missing. They're obliged to cooperate. If they don't cooperate, they have to apologize. Penalties, other than political ones, are not. I'm asking you to take note of this. As much as it was in my power, we have made sure that parliamentary issues and initiatives become a very serious part of the agenda. I think that's what they're getting into. You also get on the bench those questions that have not been answered, and thus, as far as we can, we force ministers to do so as soon as possible. But it is no longer in our power and jurisdiction, so please take this into account. We can't do more than that. Now, I ask you to ask the question you have raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u68	Thank you very much. However, I am very disappointed at such an organisation of the national assembly and the system as a whole, which is not capable of providing an effective part of the national assembly as well as the government as such. I now raise a question with the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs. First of all, the question to the Minister of the Interior concerning the Supervisory Council of the Commune of Trebnja. I'm sorry, it was mislisted in the forecast. I will ask a specific question: On the basis of which laws may convict the President of the Board of Supervisors of Trebnje - the Supervisory Board is a collective body, this is probably known to you - for the following sentence in the official report of the Supervisory Board [[Quote]] : "There is an assumption of the director's black fund, which he had without the owner's knowledge in 1996, amounting to 28 million..." and then twice again, gives a number three times, totalling 90 million tolars. For this assumption, the President of the Supervisory Board was sentenced to a million and a half terms, which he also paid. The same question to the Minister of the Interior: On the basis of what laws is the President of the Supervisory Board of a Public Enterprise condemned by a new court for his suspicion of illegal business? Offender of the crime - listen! - which is now brought before even the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, and is unlikely to be discussed below. So, the President of the Supervisory Board was right, not just the President, but the entire supervisory board. It's more than that, something like this could happen. That is why the question to the Minister of Justice is also raised: what are the laws under which the President of the Supervisory Board may be convicted of an official report? Here it says, look, the first report of the Supervisory Board of the Public Company Komunala Sevnica! This is an official document of the collective body. However, I ask the Minister of Justice: Will the Minister arrange for the abolition of the criminal judgment, for the correction of injustice and for the shameful consequences of Slovenia's legal order? And the following question: How will the Minister ensure that political corruption in some courts is strongly sanctioned and eliminated? If you can answer that, you would be extremely happy, not for yourself, but for the Slovenian public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, how will you respond? Will you first, Minister of the Interior? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u70	I understand Mr Kelemino that the first part of the question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Did I get it right? I must first conclude that this question is completely different from what Mr Kelemina has announced. He announced something about the presidents of the supervisory committees of the municipalities. I've prepared a very nice analysis of this whole issue, and I'm sorry that he's changed his subject now. For now he is talking about the President of the Supervisory Board of a public undertaking and the alleged judgment that he is to be sentenced to some compensation. Perhaps Mr Kelemina himself knows that it is not the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior to comment on the judgments of the courts, nor is he interpreting them or being controversial or critical of them. That is why this judgment, which I don't even know, you mentioned it for the first time today, but even if I did, I will not comment on it.But in general, I can say something about the responsibility of the members of the supervisory boards, because this is an accidental area of expertise that I know, not on the basis of my powers in the ministry, but in general. The members of the Supervisory Board of a public undertaking shall have the same responsibilities as members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of companies. Therefore, the rules laid down in the Act on Companies for Their Responsibility may apply. But the point is, if I understand correctly, you've given too little information about compensation liability. You mentioned some kind of penalty, but, if I understand correctly, it was an indemnity proceeding on the basis of an evidentiary or damages recovery complaint. So it would be possible to conclude from what you said. The liability of the members of the Supervisory Board, to which I also include the President, exists and is not unusual at all if the Court sentences him to compensation if the proceedings are carried out in a lawful manner, if the damage is found, if a causal fact is found between the conduct of the member or the President of the Supervisory Board and the damage caused, therefore, if the Supervisory Board is found to be under his chairmanship, under his direction by his service or her resignation, causing any harm whatsoever. That would be a normal compensation procedure before a court of justice. I don't know if that happened in your case because I don't know him. If this has happened by means of the commercial companies law, using the Law on Economic Public Services, it is possible to do so, but at the time of disclosure, clearance, proof of a number of assumptions of compensation to the supervisory board, which exists, and nothing is different for the President than for the members. Everyone is responsible for their actions, but there is no collective liability for compensation. This does not exist in law; everyone is materially liable for his actions and with his money. The Supervisory Board does not have any money to compensate for the damage it does as a collective body. This is said to be the collective responsibility of the Supervisory Board and, of course, the President has a qualified responsibility, as well as qualified powers, because he runs the Supervisory Board because he directs it because he can also have a decisive voice under the Statute. All of this had to be taken into account in the evidentiary assessment of this practice. What I am saying, I speak only in general, I am interpreting the legal rules of the company law, not as a comment on a court decision. For understandable reasons, not because I do not know this decision, nor do I know that there was such a thing, hypothetically based on the data you gave. If we want more, we need to equip this issue with more information. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u71	Please, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u72	Mr. President, Mr. Ambassador! I don't know the verdict either. From the data provided, I find that this is a criminal judgment. Since there has been talk of a fine, probably a fine, it means that on the question of the law on which it was pronounced, it is likely that the criminal code is the law on which the judgment was pronounced. Another time. In order to amend or abolish such a judgment, in the case of criminal proceedings, that amendment or removal shall be possible by procedure and in the manner laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act. In the case of a different judgment, the appropriate other procedure. This is the only way to correct any decision that you feel was wrong or wrong. Finally, if there is a violation of human rights, it is also possible for the individual affected to appeal constitutionally to the Constitutional Court. The Minister, however he might have been, cannot do anything to remedy such a decision, because he is simply not in charge of it. When the decision becomes legally binding, it must be respected by every authority in that country. As for corruption in the judiciary, as well as for judges, the criminal code applies on the one hand, and on the other hand all other irregularities are dealt with in accordance with the law on judicial service, given the irregularity that it is. In the case of disciplinary action under the provisions governing disciplinary action, if any other type of irregularity is involved, as provided for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u73	Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u74	Thank you very much. See, in Slovenia we can ask ourselves what will happen if we condemn the presidents of the supervisory boards, the supervisory boards in local communities, where their primary task is to care for the legitimate business of an entity and to point out the irregularities that are taking place there. And the President of the Supervisory Board, along with the entire supervisory board, in the report, which is an official document, only makes the assumption of a black fund, is therefore allegedly guilty of his lawsuit and sentenced to a million and a half. Can you imagine this absurdity? And then I just ask you, Mr Bohinc, what rights do they actually have, should representatives of the supervisory boards and supervisory committees in the local community have to work legally. And you say it can be that the president in the official document where he signs, can only be responsible and the other members can't. Well, that's unacceptable! That's unacceptable! And by what do we do with this in Slovenia?Oh, my God! Just as Members are not allowed to speak openly about corruption, because we do not have any immunity, the Presidents of the Supervisory Councils must not speak, no one must speak. There we see that someone outside the commission of inquiry should not testify because he has no commitment because he would immediately lose his job and the ruling option would immediately throw him out of his job, threaten his life, and so on. When will you establish a legal order? Such an illegal or so unjust judgment, Mr Justice Minister, should ensure that such judges are simply eliminated. Don't do it, don't do anything! You have every authority to act in cases of criminal judgment. Not by eliminating criminal judgments, but by eliminating those fundamental causes, it is said that such judges who judge in this way, and those who do not care that they are legally tried, simply have to be removed from their positions, and the matter will be resolved. It should only be done once, and everything would be solved. I don't know when you're gonna make sure these things find their place in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Any of the respected ministers would like a word? Please, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u76	Just one little explanation. I have made it very clear that, like members, the President has the same position, and there is no difference as to the liability for compensation in this case at all. We have now found that what you say is closer to criminal responsibility. Judgments, judgments of criminal courts as well as other judgments of the courts shall, of course, be dismissed by means of legal means, regular and exceptional remedies or appeal proceedings. And this: there is a great difference in the legal situation between the President of the Supervisory Committee of the municipality mentioned by you and the Presidents of the Supervisory Board of the Public Institute of the Company. Only the latter is subject to what I have mentioned, a reasonable application of the company law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u77	Please, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u78	Just a sentence, if you don't mind. The procedure for the discharge of a judge, as you speak of - the word "disposal" is foreign and would not be used - is prescribed in the law on judicial service. It also states in which cases and how such a procedure may be initiated. If there was a reason for that, then something like that is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u79	The two issues raised by the following two respected colleagues concern the Ministry of the Environment. Since there is no minister, I ask my colleague Lenk and my colleague Diacia, will you still ask questions? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear ministers, colleagues and fellow Members! The question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and I'm going to ask him, even though he's not here, and I'm going to ask him to answer me in writing. It is, however, a question of flood safety on the Savinja River. Aquatic economic experts estimate that there was direct damage to 81 billion SITs in the Savinja basin in the last two floods, 1990 and 1998. They believe that the minimum repairs to increase flood safety would cost about 20 billion SITs. In 2001, Minister Kopač, on a visit to Celje, promised that the Savinja basin, as the most threatened flood zone in the country, would be dealt with as a priority. It is true that the 2000 state budget planned the construction of a separate embankment in Savinja, but as far as I know, plans have not been prepared to date. However, I am aware that a study has been prepared: measures to ensure flood safety in the urban areas of the lower Savinja Valley, the retention of high waters near Savinja and Bolski in the area of the lower Savinja Valley, but the Ministry of Space and Environment has not joined the procurement of implementation projects, let alone the signing of a contract for the implementation of these works. For all of this I want a concrete explanation or answer: When are you planning to implement measures for greater flood safety in the Savina Valley? Although your ministry has promised a number of measures to resolve this problem, we have not come any further than promises. We are surprised by this attitude of the State and your ministry towards the affected population, and therefore I think it is high time that the results of that study should be implemented as soon as possible and that the affected population should be able to explain when more security can be hoped for from the stormy waters of Savinja. I am also asking the Minister of Environment and Space to reply to me: How many facilities or financial resources have been invested in facilities in Savinja for greater flood safety? The work and the means involved in repairing the damage to the last flood are not meant here. That's what the Minister would ask, and he can answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u81	The Minister is obliged to give you an oral answer to this question at the next meeting. My friend Diaca, would you also like to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u82	I want to ask a question. I'd like to say hello first. I am asking the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy a question concerning the construction of dwellings for young families and the so-called first apartments. Under the new housing law, there is no longer a category of social housing. Their role is to be taken over by non-profit housing, which is still difficult to access financially for most young families and those who first regulate their housing problem. We have already proposed in the Party of Young Slovenia that the State provide funds for the construction or co-financing of the so-called first apartment. The spatial requirements for such dwellings are much lower than for non-profit dwellings, which is the basis for the possibility that rents or investment costs for the construction of such apartments may be appropriate to the financial capacity of young families. In foreign lands, such apartments are known and are largely the first dwellings where young people arrange their homes. In addition to the possibility of renting such an apartment in the European Union to those who decide to settle their own housing problem for the first time, this is financially encouraged by one-off grants or, for example, in Germany, by granting them a financial investment in the multi-annual exemption of income payments and the inclusion of this measure in a particular way of co-financing the construction of the first apartment. In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we estimate that the financial inability of young people to manage their own home in Slovenia has had a key impact on the so-called extended youth when young people live with parents up to 30 years of age and beyond. The housing hardships of young families who struggle with their children in a joint household with parents or old parents certainly also affect decisions regarding the planning of the number of children of young families. In many cases, however, parental dependence on a young family has a bearing on the family’s own creation process, since married couples cannot decide on their own fate, which in extreme cases can also lead to divorces and family breakdowns, and the negative effects are particularly felt by children. Let me remind you that the right to housing in the former country was enshrined in the constitution. The Slovenian Constitution no longer recognises this right as a constitutional category, which must not be an excuse for the State of the young family to leave it to itself, or their parents who themselves simply cannot afford such a large financial contribution, which is a basic condition of existence and is a prerequisite for any serious consideration of the family. For this reason, I wonder whether and when you will prepare a project at the Ministry to promote the regulation of the first housing problem and to provide adequate funds and possible income relief, as the national housing savings scheme, I think, will not solve these problems. I'd like to ask for an oral answer, because I think I'll have an additional question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u83	Both questions, yours and the question of colleague Lenk, will be given to the Minister and he is also obliged to explain him orally at the next meeting. My colleague Mamić will ask the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. I have a question for the Minister of Transport. I'd rather see the Minister of Finance around. Good thing I didn't address that question to him, then he'd be among those who didn't get the answer. I am interested in concession in Slovenia. So far, it hasn't been done, as far as I know, any object from the motorway-rail network with a concession. I don't know why the government avoids it. At least let him explain why. I don't want to judge anyone, but I'm just curious. It has long been found that that ambitious national programme for the construction of motorways was not yet far from real. So, five, six years ago, it was already possible to know that in this way we will not end up as elegantly as it was supposed to be when the funds were granted and adopted by law. The government preferred to make proposals approved by the National Assembly, of course by the government coalition, into expensive loans. Credits will be returned for a long, long time. If the information is correct, even by 2045. With concessions, if they lasted around 20 years under the contract, the facilities would be made and would then belong to the country as a whole and the country would collect tolls from these facilities. The toll money would remain for maintenance, amortisation, and perhaps for any other investments, to expand the highway network if it were not then completed. With the railroads, it's no better. It's worse. We consider some property, even at the referendum we decided about it, this thing is property and the outcome is what it is. At least that's what I thought we wouldn't be making any more guarantees, because we're not making any more guarantees, but we're renting even more expensive loans than those guarantees. I'm specifically interested in the concession. If the concession is justified, why is it not applicable? But if she is not justified, let the Minister answer me why not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u85	Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u86	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Mamić. The fact is that it is currently in the debate in the National Assembly, at the beginning of this debate and, of course, later in the adoption, a new law or amendment of the Dars Act, which will also allow other ways of investing capital in the construction of the motorway network. The fact is that this national programme, which is also in the parliamentary debate, is an intergenerational project. This is said to be a project that allows relatively fast construction, relatively fast construction of the highway network of this indispensable work in the Republic of Slovenia, with means that will then return on the basis of the use of these motorways over the next decades. A similar problem is with the railway, where it was, I think your particular issue, especially the second track. Let me stress that this second track of Koper-Divača is an integral part of the report of the specific working group within the framework of the European Commission dealing with 29 projects, priority projects in Europe, for the period up to 2020. As part of these projects, there is also a fifth corridor in the field of Slovenia, or project from Kopra to Hungary. As part of this project we have a second track and modernisation of the Ljubljana-Hodos track, with special emphasis on the electrification of the Prague-Hodoš line. That would be a short answer. I also think that the question was whether it was possible to build a "downer" within the framework of concessions. The fact is that it is a "downhill", that is, a highway towards Zagreb, in full construction momentum, that we are also intensively preparing the others, not yet starting the section of the lower highway. This is a prerequisite if we want to implement the proposed national programme for the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia and under this national programme also the lower leg until including 2008 that it is necessary to build very intensively, and therefore there is no possibility of concession building when we have certain sections, as in most areas already built. Of course, we can think of other means, other sources, other forms of construction on some sections where construction has not yet begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u87	Complementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u88	I kind of expected such an answer, but of course I'm not satisfied with it, because I'm talking about concession as a quality, like some category, what it means. If the concession is good for our economy, why wasn't it going to concession when it was known that in the way it was set up, it didn't go far. Thus, the highway programme should be completed last year, and all the funds envisaged in 1993 are used and only 41% of the motorway cross is made. What kind of analysts are they? I just don't get it. But in the rail network, I'm talking about investments, and I'm not talking about modernisation, maintenance and so on. I'm talking about new miles or at least meters. Of course, I was thinking about the second track of the Koper-Givics. Of course it's no use looking for a concessionaire now, but if it were to be looked for five years ago, we'd be driving along the valley right now - and the road would be. And that would bring so much money and so much benefit that I don't list everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u89	Would you like to add your answer? Please, Minister President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u90	Thank you very much. In short, I will say that appropriate studies have been made that have shown that it is simply not wise and that it is not possible to place individual short sections into concessions or that it is possible to place a longer section in concessions, on the basis of which already built sections can be completed. However, we must be aware of the need for individual sections to be tolled and, in this way, to raise funds in future, in the coming decades, on the basis of which appropriate credits are to be returned. If such thinking were possible, at the very beginning of the highway construction, it would make more sense to think about it. Today or in recent years, of course, that is not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u91	My colleague Roman Jakič will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u92	Honorable ministers, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! On April 22, last year, my family woke up on a terrible day. Gala, a 13-year-old son was struck by a spinal infarction at night and forced to sit on a wheelchair. For a month I stayed at the pediatric clinic near his bed and stayed up all night, uncomfortably laid in two school chairs and horribly observed other parents sleeping on the floor in sleeping bags next to their seriously ill loved ones, and listened to consultations between treating doctors and parents in the hallways, given that there are no suitable intimate spaces for this. Construction of a new paediatric clinic has been promised to children, parents, health staff and Slovenian public for years. Unfortunately, we are also witnessing to the wrath of all of us that the construction date is constantly being closed, which is, of course, unacceptable and worthy of criticism and disdain. Dear Mr. Secretary! 11.9. in one of the most widely watched shows of the biggest commercial television in Slovenia in the debate on health reform, I quote: "Let me say an example, we are driving the project of the Pediatric Clinic as a project of connection between the public and the private segment."the end of the quote. Your colleagues, Mr. Minister, went further and in various places claimed that on the basis of an investment project - by the way, which you jealously hold at the Ministry and do not even show it to the competent at the Paediatric Clinic - the return on investment has already been calculated. Minister, we are talking about the profitability of the functioning of the university tertiary hospital for children and adolescents. This is not in Europe, this is not in Europe. The pediatric hospital is a central institution in Slovenia, part of a university clinical centre, connected to the university or its medical faculty. The hospital is the only one systematically involved in education and research in the field of paediatrics. How, then, does a profit that will have to be so high that a private partner will be reimbursed in due time with an appropriate profit margin? Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask: Will your statement that the state will build a new paediatric clinic in a public-private partnership be true? When and in what authorities did the Ministry come to this decision? Of course, I am interested in whether this is a decision, but I have in me a positive response that this decision is re-energizing the start of the construction of a new paediatric clinic. Last but not least: Minister, can you trust us when will the Ministry of Health issue a call for construction of a new pediatric clinic in Ljubljana? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u93	Mr. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u94	Dear Mr. President! The Messenger, the Messengers, and the Messengers! Yes, indeed, at the Ministry of Health there was also at the time of my reply, or public comment, a current reflection on public-private partnership in the field of investment in hospitals in particular. The reason for this is directly one that there is an approaching gap between investment funds and between the needs of Slovenian hospitals. While we believe that investment will continue to be sustainable in 2004, the gap between investment needs and the available resources that we will have to resolve in various ways: either by cutting investment or by thoroughly rationalising investment, or by obtaining new resources from loans, leasing and also from public-private partnerships. Let me mention that public private partnership as an idea is legitimate in this country. We have just received a number of criticisms about the White Paper in these months, that we are not brave enough to open up the possibility of other founders and not just the country coming to health. The fundamental question is whether the country must also be the sole founder and sole owner of public institutions in the future. The project, as it was intended, although this time had already come up with a different decision to describe it in some moves, was never meant to be a project that would pay the costs. It was a project, similar to the establishment of many projects in Europe, along with university institutions, where there is a special institution in state-public and private ownership. In our case, the country would be the dominant owner and therefore the dominant deciding partner. For example, employees would by no means be employed by a private investor, but continue at a clinical centre. But I won't go into the details. Perhaps only how this project would be invested, not by such a private owner, but by the funds of commercial banks that are willing to invest in international co-ownership in such a case. It may be a little simple, but it is a form of attracting foreign loans to a place where the guarantor is no longer a state. Let me answer that the foreign partner would not be paid from the profit on the capital invested, but would be engaged in the management of the assets and would be paid from the price for its management services. Two reasons have led us in recent weeks to deviate from this consideration in the case of a pediatric clinic. Let me say it was a thought and not a decision. It would only have been adopted if the decision had matured to an appropriate quality proposal. Two reasons. One reason was that the project of the pediatric clinic was already too far from the start of the project, to the preparation of the project and that the impact of a private investor could be reduced, which could reduce costs. The second reason, to say the truth, is the White Paper itself, which significantly changes the future efficiency of hospital operations and also the proposed or prepared calculation of the effectiveness of this project is now changing. Reform brings increased efficiency within the public system. In this case, this time has become a risky investment for another investor as well. The third reason is not to ignore, but this is a growing public opinion that has been negative for such a project, although let me mention that in the future, and otherwise the ministry cannot give up thinking about public-private interventions in this area, because otherwise we will not be able to make investments in healthcare to the extent we want. As regards the start of the construction tender. You know the project faces a number of problems that I won't mention. We have refused many times. We are waiting for this time only because the investment documentation is prepared, in response to the Public Procurement Office. However, we have been waiting for him for several months to comment on the author's problems with the current owners of the documentation of this project. We think that by the end of this month - even this month we are promised - this answer will come and we will actually move this barrier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u95	You will share additional questions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u96	Mr Minister, while I am pleased that the construction of a new paediatric clinic in Ljubljana will not be subject to a relatively unprepared and, above all, to a reckless experiment, which one of the writers or one of the journalists, Mr Kovac, referred to as "a hospital like a guinea pig". I agree with him when he says that this is how experimenting with new forms of health management on the back of severely ill children is unresponsible and immoral. And Mr. Minister, the unresponsible, irresponsible and immoral is the fact that the pediatric clinic is not yet standing! The pediatric clinic isn't up yet. So once again, when is the Ministry going to issue a call for construction work to start building this pediatric clinic?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u97	Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something? In time frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u98	It's nice to use strong passwords about children's clinics. These strong slogans were used in 1996 when the authors proposed a three-fold project of a paediatric clinic based on strong passwords. Among other things, it is the Ministry's responsibility in this mandate that the paediatric clinic has arrived at the planned, although some expert opinions have shown that the project is still foreshadowed and has begun to be built. This ministry started with this construction. This time still has some obstacles that the Ministry cannot prevent because of the departments and authorities doing their work or doing it more slowly. For example, he cannot still demolish or evict two tenants, and we are awaiting judicial proceedings, just as many cases await their judgment. Nevertheless, we are already digging and setting up everything necessary to avoid delay. I have mentioned that we are waiting only for the opinion of the Office, and that with sufficient probability, but not entirely, I promise that this obstacle will be overcome, and that we will be able to apply for this second part next month. As you know, the first part, the building pit, has already been signed and is approaching its end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u99	Comrade Jakič, only if you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u100	Gradually, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, I propose that the next meeting discuss the issue of the construction of a new paediatric clinic or the answer given by the Minister today. I hope then that the minister will be able to come with happy news that after a few months of waiting they have given the call and that they have demolished those two houses and started building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u101	Kolga Jakič suggests that the State Assembly hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the competent minister to his question. Whether or not the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, without discussion, immediately at the beginning of the item, in the vote, with items on the agenda tomorrow. My friend Barovic wants to ask a question to the Minister without a department, which she is not, so I ask you, do you want to ask a question orally?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers! Yes, and I am asking for an oral answer at the next sitting, not because of the answer itself, but because of the actions that this response is supposed to follow, because I am convinced that the question is very, very important and that we are seriously late. Why? On the basis of analyses and baselines, the design of the Slovenian urban network was developed in 1970. The division into 12 regions has been prepared if you want the landscape or if you want to use another term. In 2001, we had a number of concepts - a proposal to create 3 to 12 larger regions or 26 to 32 smaller regions, or 8 larger and 28 smaller regions. Today is the year 2003 and there is no regional design. Why is that important? Not just for us. European Union legislation does not prescribe the size, number and competence of the regions, but recommends their establishment. Why am I saying this? Because we are at the door of a large country called the European Union. Within the framework of Eurostat, the region's "Nomenclature of Territorial Units of Statistics" - NUTS - was accurately defined by the Slovenian "standard classification of territorial units". It is clear from the information bureau's booklet Regional Policy and the European Union that Slovenia is performing at NUTS level 0 and NUTS level 1 as one country, and at NUTS level 2 is performing in a maximum of two regions, at NUTS level 3, which is most appropriate and important for all of Slovenia, that 12 statistical regions should be created. Let me add that European Union legislation provides structural assistance only to the level of NUTS 3 regions where 12 regions are envisaged. I'll ask you a question: When - and finally, when, once again - will we know in Slovenia how many regions do we have at this level? I base this issue on the fact that the provinces in Slovenia are needed in order to be comparable with the European Union countries, secondly, everywhere across Europe, the regional level is being strengthened, the common financial and development intervention of the European Union is being targeted at the regions, and thirdly, the countries and policies of the European Union support a weaker and evolving region. So, when? And just a follow-up question: Or - as shown in the implementation programme in items 22.124 [[in the paper we are reviewing these days]] where the Sava region is no longer after 2006 - does this mean that the formation of the regions is already established, already established and does this mean that the Sava region is not supposed to be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u103	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. You said you insist on having the Minister answer you at your next meeting, which is also an obligation to do. The Minister of the Interior will now raise the question of colleague Puksic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have an electoral campaign law and we have an electoral law in the National Assembly. One and the other are also talking about the costs of the electoral campaign and the costs of the electoral process, which is why I ask the Minister of the Interior: Have you done anything with regard to the damage to social property that has been exposed in the National Assembly to the explanation of the "against" vote on the law on the restriction of corruption? On this occasion, it was explained that the then SDP party, the current party of the United Republic of Slovenia, owed funds to Telstar, whose director Dušan Kumer had made a concession contract, thereby damaging social property for 4 and a half million tolars. The data are from the Social Accounting Service report. And the second question: What they would have done if they had obtained documents on the table showing that the current Member or Member of the elections in 2000 had been elected mainly because it had spent or spent several times as much money as it did under the electoral campaign law, and the political party had not shown this in the report on the use of funds for the electoral campaign. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u106	My friend Puksic, thank you very much for this question. In fact, you raised the issue of the role of the Ministry of the Interior in overseeing the financing of the electoral campaign. And in this regard, I should immediately reply to you that the Ministry of the Interior does not supervise, in accordance with the electoral campaign law and in accordance with the electoral law, the financing of electoral campaigns is governed by Articles 18 and 19 of the electoral campaign law, by overseeing the financing of the electoral campaign by the Court of Auditors, by the National Assembly itself for the election of Members to the National Assembly and by the Municipal Councils for the election of councillors or mayor at local level. The provisions of Article 18 of this Act provide that a special transaction account must be opened 45 days before the start of the vote to the business bank, stating the "voluntary campaign" and that all payments, as well as payments, must be recorded in the function of the electoral campaign, may be made through this transaction account. Article 19 states that the organiser of the electoral campaign must draw up a report on this and submit this report to the national assembly or local elections to the Council, and, of course, to the Court of Auditors, no later than 30 days from the day of the vote. The Court of Auditors shall act within its powers. The Ministry of the Interior or better said, the police are also acting within their powers, without the need for anyone to encourage it, or without the need for the Minister of the Interior to give the police any guidance in this regard. So the police enter when it is found that there is reasonable suspicion or that there are grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed in this regard. Of course, the specific cases you're referring to here I can't comment on. I'm not familiar with them. If we were to announce them in advance, I could get you information on this. However, I can tell you that the law enforcement authorities are acting in the same way in all cases, i.e. that if reasonable suspicion is given or there are grounds for suspicion, appropriate procedures are initiated. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u107	My friend Pukšič, would you like? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u108	Mr Minister, of course, I know paragraphs 18 and 19, but with the explanation - as I mentioned earlier - the voice "against" in voting on the law on the limitation of corruption has therefore proved that this was an electoral campaign in the previous period. However, since this was also said here in the National Assembly and read in the Social Accounting Service report, I expected, of course, that you would at least order an investigation through the police or order an investigation in this regard. However, you certainly did not answer that other hypothetical question, whether in such a case, when the legislation already applied, what would you have done in such a case, of course, if you had obtained such information.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u110	I can only answer this second hypothetical question by acting in accordance with the law. What is more, a hypothetical question cannot be answered. This is also the case with regard to questions about the pre-prepared report in this particular case. Your expectation cannot be justified if you raise the question of what is the role of the Ministry of the Interior in overseeing the electoral campaign. I can't imagine which specific cases you're interested in. And that's what I'd like to say. The Minister of the Interior does not order investigations to the police, but the police are acting under their legal duties, as is the case with the law. There is no need to wait for the minister to order any investigation, and I am sure that in the case that you have in mind, as in all others - specifically this year over 43,000 - there are cases that she has acted in the way that the law commands her.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u111	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u112	In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 242 I have raised the question to the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the event took place only after the possibility of an announcement, on Friday 24 October before the Zámnik investigative commission, which finds the background of the attack on journalist Mir Petk, was invited as a witness by former employee of the NKB Bogdan Ribič. Bogdan Ribič, on the question of the Commission, did not hope to tell the truth until he untied it from silence. Bogdan Ribič was afraid that some unusual circumstance would happen again and, of course, he would be at risk of life, as did Mrs Mira Bergant of Lenart, when she decided to tell the court everything in the truth about the Satex affair. I therefore ask the Secretary-General: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which owns the NCBs, take all action to enable the testimony of Mr Mir Bergant through its members in the Supervisory Council? What will the government do with Mr Ribič, since the appeal for the issue of business secrecy has already been rejected and when will it propose to the Supervisory Council to re-engage him? Is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia interested in the legality and transparency of the banking business owned by it, or does it support those who protect and launder money, as was the case at the Coroner’s branch? These questions are raised because I expect from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that you speak the truth and represent the legality of the New Bank of Credit, which is owned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - must not lead to the intimidation of honest citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u113	This was now an additional question, Mr Pukšič, if I understand correctly. Here I have some procedural obstacles perhaps Mr. Minister can answer that question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u114	I didn't understand that as a question. But if you want some information in this regard, we can prepare it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Then we can proceed. Mr Franci Rokavec will raise a question to the Minister for Environment and Space and Energy, which he does not have.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues. In spite of the absence of the Minister, I will raise the question orally and expect an oral answer at the next meeting. It's a question of the looser mine Sitarovec Lithium. On 21 March this year, the mining inspector issued a decision to the company Rudnika leadca and zinc Mežice, d.o.o. in closing order that it must remedy the irregularities and shortcomings identified and to carry out measures in the Sitarjevec mine area, Lithuania, as follows. Firstly, in the area of the mining area of Sitarjevec, as determined by the Decision of 3.11.1954, it is necessary to remedy all effects of mining on the environment that pose a direct threat to the lives of humans and animals to the extent and manner to be defined by the mining project. Another time. In the area of the extraction area referred to in point 1, appropriate insurance measures necessary to ensure the safety of humans and animals and to maintain the measures in place shall be carried out for the period until the final recovery is carried out. Year 30.9.2003. In addition to the measure referred to in point 1 of this Decision, the undertaking must carry out the following obligations: A - to affix this decision to a specific mining supervision book, B - to report in writing, within 8 days of the expiry of the deadline, to the inspectorate for the environment and space in Ljubljana, on the implementation of the measure referred to in the first paragraph of this Decision. These tasks were not carried out by the mining company Rudnika lead and zinc Mežica in closing. Moreover, in its complaint to the already mentioned decision, it contested that it was not the competent address for the implementation of that decision. In view of the above, and in view of the law on the closure of the Mine of Lead and Zinc of Mežica, in which the mine of Lead and Parita Sitarjevec in Lithuania was also the legal heir to this mine, the decision of the Republic Mining Inspectorate to provide essential works at the closure of that mine raises legitimate questions. And above all: Will it be possible to enforce that decision within the framework of the Act on the Closure of the Mežica Mine - and, if so, when? Or could it not be more reasonable for the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy to designate an operator willing to implement that decision to effectively ensure the safety of humans and animals and to maintain the measures in place? Like I said, I expect an answer in the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger has the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. He's not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. In addition to all the complications with the neighbouring country of Croatia over the past months, we have been listening and reading about the plans of Croatia or its company Janaf for the transport of oil from Russia to the Adriatic, in particular to Odima na Krk, and then with tankers, to the West, against the United States of America. We have been alerting the ecological controversy of the project in the Young Slovenia Party since the summer ahead, but without an appropriate response from our government and the foreign ministry. The fact is that the possibility of spilling oil, in particular the problem of ballast waters and the consequent biological destruction of the Adriatic Sea, is not only a threat to Croatia, but also to Slovenia and all other countries that share the Adriatic Sea equally. The consequences of any accident and spillage of oil in the closed Adriatic Sea I do not even hope to imagine, but what the introduction of foreign organisms means as a consequence of ballast waters, but we can look at the Black Sea case. Despite all these obscure scenarios, I have not seen Slovenia's reactions, although pollution, as I have already mentioned, does not know borders and not such or other zones. As I can tell, things are getting worse. According to Croatian media records, the President of the neighbouring country, Mr Mesic, is somehow threatening Croatian oil transport opponents that the deal, unless carried out by Croatia, will be taken over by the market port. This would mean that oil would be transported through Slovenia to Trieste. I want to know: Did Slovenia react to these claims - and if not, why not? Was it clear to the Croats that the transport of oil through Slovenia is out of the question and that we are opposed to their short-sighted and long-term harmful plans? I want to know: What is the position of the foreign ministry on this issue? I expect an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Joseph Bernick. The question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Ministers, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! My first question is addressed to the issue of Minister Biszak. The fact is, I can never send a question to the state prosecutor myself, so please get the answers to the following comments and questions. In fact, it's after the war of slain persons who were thousands, and we act like it wouldn't mean anything if others did, it's none of our business. However, this is about the fairness and fairness of the Slovenian government. That's why I want to know the following. This lady has classified all these dead as civilian victims, and this is because she did not have to investigate who the perpetrators were. But they were soldiers. I would like to know: How did the state prosecutor come to this decision and on what legal basis is this decision? Secondly: Does she have the right to decide whether the government has made the decision or who has made the decision? I would like to have a written legal opinion on this matter. Finally, I'd like to ask you the following questions. Madam State Prosecutor must have read the law, this shameful law on war graves, where there are more lies, especially in the inscriptions. What does this lady intend to do to perhaps tell the government that it was a rude and disrespectful act? I'm asking for a very precise answer. My second question is to the Minister of the Interior. It's a very interesting arrest last week when our officers were arrested. [[End warning sign]] Former Kosovo Liberation Army Commander [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u121	Mr. Bernick, I'm sorry! The information system is the reason that the answer is first and then the next question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u122	Okay, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u123	And the rules of procedure. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u124	Mr. President, Dr. Bernick! You yourself are stating that you are asking the question of the Attorney General. We will answer the question, and I am sure that it will provide answers on some of the prosecutor's decisions that you are talking about in your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, but everything I've received from her so far has been completely worthless.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u127	Your second question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u128	However, the second question is to the Minister of the Interior concerning the arrest of this person from Albania and the procedures following the long-term release. It was supposed to be about an invitation from Serbia, a tyrant against this man, to commit war crimes against the Serbian population. This is how Slovenia reacted to something that actually did not have any possible basis. Finally, the solution was that some people, the head of the United Nations mission, and then some others. [[Solana]] , protested against it and demanded that this man be released. Indeed, the situation in Kosovo seems to me to be extremely sad and the future will, I think, be even more sad or very worrying. I don't think there's any point in getting people out of this territory so gradually, because we might still need these people. At the same time, it seems to me that the interior ministry should not be working on foreign policy, and I am surprised that we were more of a tramp than I hear, the Hungarians who, in a very short period of time, released this man - perhaps on the same basis or received him on the basis of tyranny, but later released him. I would like to know: Are we capable of finding such things before there is any scandal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u129	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Dr. Bernick, for that question. However, I should protest the claim that the internal ministry is leading foreign policy. It's not about that, and in this case it wasn't about that. The police acted as they should in such cases; and they did the right thing. It acted on the basis of Article 155(4) of the Criminal Procedure Act, after the international tyranny number 194/99 of 18 was signed. 3. 2002. It was therefore an international prosecutor, on the basis of which the police carried out the arrest and handover of a person to an investigating judge. The length of the trial before the investigating judge and why this procedure has been delayed would have been easier for you to present to the Minister of Justice. The police have acted effectively, in the way that the legislation has been applied to them. She did something else, namely to check with Interpol, Interpol's headquarters in Lyon, and to get confirmation of this international tyranny. This means that Interpol's legal service has confirmed the validity of this tyranny. That's what the police did before she made the arrest. Of course, the police did not check the foreign policy implications and the foreign policy dimensions of the arrest and did so because it is not her jurisdiction, because it is not the police's duty to assess the foreign policy aspects. It is the responsibility of the police and the police to comply with Slovenian legislation. It also did so, did so in accordance with the law on criminal procedure which lays down the procedure in the case of international tyranny and did so in accordance with the international obligations that Slovenia has in the case of Interpol. As the investigating judge did, what the investigating judge did when he decided not to institute an investigative detention is, of course, another issue and does not concern the competence of the Ministry of the Interior or the police.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Another question, I guess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u132	This relationship is very good, Mr. Minister, but I'd like to ask you: Why didn't our officers do this before because this gentleman walked through Slovenia and had a chance before? Is that what you're saying? Did they sleep or what happened? In addition, I hear that a lot of economic damage has been done, because the Kosovoers have been pouring heavily on Slovenian milk and threatening boycott, etc. I don't think it's negligible either. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u134	I reiterate that it is not on the police to assess the external policy or the economic consequences of its conduct. It has to comply with the law, and so, professionally, the police have done the same. Why hasn't she done this before? I could get you the intelligence, the police's operational data, if that's what they're talking about. I doubt the police have carried out their duty if it has come to the possibility of doing so before. As soon as this opportunity arose, the police acted in a way that was professional and legal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, especially Minister of Health Dr Dusan Keber. The Code on the Red Cross of Slovenia provides in Article 9 for the Red Cross of Slovenia to carry out actions to obtain blood-spectrums and organise blood-spectrum actions. At the same time, Article 27 of the same law states that the Republic of Slovenia provides funds from its budget for the tasks performed by the Red Cross of Slovenia as public authority. According to my data, the costs for the implementation and operation of the blood supply programme in the first nine months amount to about 135 million tolars. I wonder: How much of this amount has the State contributed from the budget or settled from the budget? I also want to know: What is the supply of blood, how are transports arranged, and is there the possibility of blood running out of blood in a hospital?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u137	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u138	Your Honor! Your question, which I had previously received, was not so detailed and it is quite possible that I will give you some details that you have also answered in writing. But I can answer a lot of questions for you today. First of all, despite the occasional problems that have always been echoed in the public, our blood supply system is one of the best for citizens, is self-sufficient and performs its role in cooperation between the blood transfusions institute, then the Red Cross as the main organizer, and the professional blood supply councils at the Ministry of Health are quite effective, or I can say even very effective. New times bring on the one hand an increased need for blood and, on the other hand, the need for rationalisation due to changed techniques and more cost-effective use of blood. In short, they bring new efforts from year to year to update both the collection and the use of blood. In particular, we have recently had the task of modernising the collection of blood, which is expected to be somewhat less campaigning and more tailored to specific needs. There is no secret that our current blood collection occasionally brings some excesses that are hard to use. Here and there, as you know, comes the edge when there is already a decline, but we have sufficiently well-developed alarm systems, which then through the campaign - such should be avoided in the future - quickly taken care of by solidarity, awareness-raising, humane citizens to gather such blood. I am not familiar, honourable Member, with cases that could lead to a lack of blood. I cannot leave out this possibility entirely theoretically if there is a markedly high need during the operation, but an extremely rare group of blood that needs to be prepared in advance so that this does not happen. However, in such a case there are also temporary compensations for blood that can then be obtained from other centres. In the future, it is during this time that a new planning of a better organization is under way, more in contrast, and also in agreement with blood providers, a balanced supply of blood, so that at the latest next year we will adopt a new blood supply plan that will follow these guidelines that I have been talking about. This year, the Ministry of Health, according to my information, allocates 118 million tolls of direct budget resources to cover the blood supply actions. Of course, this does not include covering a day off with employers. We are aware that this sum is modest, we need to keep it on balance every time, and we hope that we will be in the future, because we also recognize that it goes to the lower limit of funding, that we will try to improve funding and also contribute to good blood supply after that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your answer. It is true, Mr Minister, that I have raised the question in more detail than was stated in the question of the Member State, and I therefore agree to receive a written answer. But the specific question is whether you can answer it now or in writing: How many of the 118 million you have planned in the budget have so far been credited to the Red Cross? I'm really interested in this information, and I'd like you to give it to me. Because otherwise, I wonder if it is really possible that we are with this country so far away that it needs help and credit for the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u141	Thank you. Do you want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u142	I'll give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will raise questions with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So, my question also concerns the arrest of General Ceku, but I will highlight this from another point of view, so that both issues may be complemented. In fact, last Wednesday and Thursday, Slovenian media dedicated an extremely large amount of space to arrest the commander of the Kosovo Protection Corps, General Agim Ceku. The event was presented as an extraordinary success of the Slovenian security authorities. But the next day, on Thursday 23 October, they had to let Ceku go at 1:15 at night, saying, in the middle of the night. Who are they to release from our house at 1:00 p.m. at 15 p.m.? Apparently, she had to pass on some kind of big cattle. And he forwarded - and also achieved the release - of a civilian administrator in Kosovo, Harri Holkieri, who is the authority in Kosovo, who has also formed this protective corps and who has the mandate of the United Nations. We, I mean, our authorities obviously denied this arrest, wanted to deny the jurisdiction of the United Nations in Kosovo. I don't know where they got that idea. Of course, it immediately appeared that the tyranny they were about to demand in Belgrade was not valid for the Kosovo area, but that Kosovo was under the authority of the United Nations mission led by the Holkieri mentioned above. This was also known by the arrested and obviously not by the Slovenian authorities. The question is also asked: Do our authorities in our country separate a request for a female molester and a female molester? Then, of course, the question is - and so do I. How is it possible that our country smiles in this way and that someone wants to prove that we have jurisdiction over the United Nations? For there is a United Nations mission in Kosovo, which has its powers, which has formed a particular body, and this gentleman, whatever he is, has been under their jurisdiction, not under ours. Who makes the Slovenian state laugh like that?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u145	I'm asking for the Minister's answer. Mr. Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u146	I have nothing to add to what I have said in this regard. I categorically reject the fact that the Slovenian police in this regard would smile in any way. The police acted lawfully and in accordance with their international obligations. It will not hold that this tyrant was invalid. This tyranny was valid and confirmation of the validity of this tyranny was explicitly given by Interpol headquarters in Lyon through a written message, which can also be presented to the Member if he so wishes. A completely different issue, which is beyond the competence of our ministry, is the question of how the investigating judge acted and what he has taken as a basis for his decision not to take a decision on detention. This is a question relating to jurisdiction or to the legal order under which decisions resulting in acts of tyranny have also been taken. This question concerns whether Kosovo is governed by the United Nations acquis or by the administration or by the rule of law of the country. This question is not within the purview of the police. The police should not judge and arbitrate what kind of legal order is in force in the present case, but is the basis for its action solely a document called an international tyrant. That's why I claim, once again, that she did the right thing. And more. I would have done the wrong thing, and I would have sinned against the rules in force in Slovenia if I had not acted on this tyranny. The matter of judgment, which is within the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of power, where we place an investigative judge, is, of course, something completely different. The investigating judge, as a member of the judiciary, has the opportunity to assess what he will take as a basis for his judgment. I therefore reject the claim that the police would either smile or do wrong. She was doing the right thing by the investigating judge, and that is probably something that my respectable colleague may have commented on.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u147	Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u148	Of course, I don't know the composition of the file on this case that the judge had before him when he decided that detention was no longer necessary. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, I can only say that the Ministry immediately forwarded to the Court a letter from the civil administrator, Mr Holkeri, received through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I suppose the judge had this letter at his disposal. However, I cannot, of course, guess whether the facts were in this letter or something else decisive to decide that the detention in question was no longer necessary at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, a supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Another question. At first, I didn't say anywhere that the police did this, I was saying, "our organs." That's why I asked both of you a question, given the powers you have. The fact is that Slovenia must act as a country, not as a group, a set of some authorities when the left hand does not know what the right hand is doing. I agree that the judicial part of our authority is responsible for this. But they should check and know who has jurisdiction over Kosovo and that Serbian courts are not responsible for the area of Kosovo. That's the first one. Now for the next question. I'm always saying that this is the embarrassment of our organs. Once again, I stress that I am not saying that it is either the police or the judicial branch, but our organs, our country. The question arises about the credibility of similar steps at home: Are all detained also justified? And: Are not those who should be? If we don't know how to investigate this and the two authorities can't agree on each other. On the other hand, it raises questions as to whether our repressive authorities are still not under Belgrade's influence, because they jump immediately - and if necessary, they smile - when they blink their fingers in Belgrade. This question is offered to me and to those with whom I have spoken - not all of them, but some - in the fact that our authorities are reacting immediately when in a country that has caused a lot of distress and crimes in the Balkans, I will only mention I would like to refer to others, condemning others. In this uplifting of Belgrade and insidiousness to Belgrade, despite the fact that the issue of colliding with the jurisdiction of the United Nations is being raised. That's what it says. We'd like to face the jurisdiction of the United Nations, that's what's been shown here. And now - maybe I'll be a little bit provocative here, and I'll say - it's becoming clear, as my colleague has expressed himself, why such a slow reaction in domestic affairs - for example, the SIB bank. Apparently, that was not what they ordered and requested in Belgrade. The question is: Do we really live in a country of our own, or do we still have some old relationship, and others tell us what to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u151	Thank you, Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u152	Mr Petan, I must say that you have drawn very interesting political conclusions from this. The conclusions of a huge scale, although exactly what had to happen in a given situation, had to happen. And I repeat: in any case, regardless of where the tyrant came from, the police could have done the same from America, New Zealand or Serbia. It should implement an act which is referred to as the arrest under Article 154 of the Criminal Procedure Act. She also committed this arrest. And I wouldn't want to go to the investigative judge's opinion, because he's completely autonomous in his decisions. But he didn't do anything other than what you're supposed to do. He has judged what right to apply in such a case, and I understand that he has therefore decided not to execute decisions on detention precisely because he understood jurisdiction in the way you understand it. And he obviously acted in the same way as you did in the context of the judgment you presented here. Thus, the investigating judge took account of the law of the United Nations and did not take a decision on detention. This decision has not been taken. From this we can only say that both branches of power, the police and the judiciary, acted quite in harmony in this case. The police just respected the law and international obligations. When it came to the turn of the investigating judge, he found that this jurisdiction was in force, and he took a decision as it had been made. You probably agree with that decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr Bogomir Vnučec has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Mr Booth, who is absent today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Despite the absence of the Minister, I will ask you a question and I would like the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. The 2004 and 2005 State budget also provides for the disposal of state forests and state agricultural areas, from 2004 to billions of tolars and in 2005 to up to two billion tolars. Given the amount of the total amount, this is 3 billion tolars, and given the relatively short time for the quality and professional disposal of state property, we can say that this is the sale of state property. Due to denationalisation, we have already lost a lot of state land, and we will, where it has not yet been completed, so we now own only 20% of Slovenian land. Compared to what 3 billion tolars means, this is the entire range of ring forests, say 4,500 hectares, or all state agricultural land in the Vipavska Valley, 1,500 hectares, according to current market prices. In addition, this measure is contrary to the Slovenian Forest Development Strategy adopted in this Parliament, which, on the contrary, foresees an increase in state forests and their rounding up, and sales are allowed only in the case of aid to high-mountain farms to round up their areas. It is also not in line with the Ministry of the Environment and the Space where the Nature Conservation Act provides or prohibits the sale of land within reserves. Most of the state land, state forests and agricultural land is within these reserves, national parks, regional and landscape parks, as well as the future reserved for new parks. Thus, the sale of this land essentially loses its impact on some of the vital functions that state ownership enables on these areas. This is an ecological function, these are protected areas, then water resources security and social function, open access to recreational areas. And, of course, in this way, we leave the state's influence to private profit interests. In addition, for sale, only large areas will be of interest, quality, but not detached, healed and wetlands. However, all these areas are in complexes and are already leased, both in the 20-year lease on forests and agricultural areas for leasing to farmers, meaning that these beneficiaries, leasers will be entitled to compensation in the event that the country sells these areas. So I want to know: what are the professional and strategic grounds here. Given that Slovenian farmers can barely survive themselves at this time and have no money to buy these areas, this means that these state forests and land will be purchased by foreigners or capital companies that do not deal with agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Spindler has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the ministers and ministers and to all of you, Members and Members of Parliament! I would address my oral question to all ministries where inspection services are organised at expositions in the area of administrative units. Why are inspection services moving out of administrative units and being organised in units at the level of statistical regions? This makes it particularly difficult for the same inspectors who are now doing this work and for all citizens and citizens who urgently need these services. In our place, it is heard in some way that these are the pressures of individual inspection services in the center of the regions, that they also want to join the service as soon as possible, which would, of course, undermine the operation of the services themselves. This is strongly opposed by citizens and citizens themselves not only in our region, but also more broadly, to withdraw from it and to leave the services organised within administrative units, not to move them to some centres, so that people somehow cannot reach them. Of course, I would like a written reply from all the ministries in which all inspection services are organised. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u157	Perhaps Mr. Minister of Labour, Mr. Dimovski?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u158	As you said, we can also refer these questions to the other ministries and jointly prepare a written answer. All I would say is that, in fact, in 2001 - 2003, there was a reduction in the number of exposures concerning the labour inspectorate by 4 outposts. Reason: The main reason was the reduction of material costs and the rationalisation of business. At the same time, I can say that the number of employees has not decreased, but something has increased during this period. However, there has been an increase, as the Labour Inspectorate's report also shows, in the number of inspections carried out, both regular and extraordinary, and in the number of decisions issued, regulatory and other decisions taken. At this point, there are 14 district units and 16 outposts in addition to the headquarters, as far as work inspectorates are concerned. In any case, as I said, in terms of efficiency, the work of the expositions is now taking over the regional units, but at the same time we can argue that the efficiency measured in the way I said earlier has increased during this period. Of course, we will, as much as you wish, prepare a report in more detail for you, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Mr. Minister of Health, I'm referring to you with a question. A year ago, your ministry introduced a thorough administrative supervision in a cell hospital that was supposed to reveal why professional negligence had occurred and who were the most responsible people who had accumulated unexplored tissue samples for almost 15 years or knew what was going on in pathology. However, professional supervision has revealed everything else, but not the culprits. Because it's everyone's fault, it's nobody's fault. It is to blame for the collective negligence which characterises the entire Slovenian health care. No, Mr. Secretary! Citizens and citizens cannot simply accept such a formulation! You're saying you can't just point your finger at the individual culprits. What about the pathologist who collected the most untreated samples in 10 years and more, among whom 77 invasive malignancies were later found. Accurately, it is known whether it is necessary to know who performed and was responsible for individual tasks. And if such negligence were to occur in just one case, they should be the side of the bell. But there were 2,500 unexplored tissue samples! You're saying that neither the administrative controls nor the criminal investigation so far have revealed any other persons with a name and surname that would be the victim of professional negligence. You don't think we expected to find out about one or a few names that caused such negligence to damage their health or even die? It's still true that crows don't turn off their eyes. However, our criminals have little or no experts to be successful in this area. You say it's only possible to think on a philosophical level. In this case, I believe that consideration of the derogation would be appropriate. Dear Mr. Secretary! I ask: How do you think they feel about this formulation of the collective negligence of Slovenian health care those Slovenian doctors who conscientiously, responsibly and professionally carry out their work? How can citizens and citizens, after all, believe that, in our hospitals or elsewhere, they do not wait for unsupervised, replaced or even discarded samples of tissue, blood or anything else? And the last question: What should the relatives of patients who might survive in time for their examination of cancer samples? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u162	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for having once again the opportunity to answer the question and for perhaps once again to highlight some of the different points that you have used, even though you have partly used the Ministry of Health's response or my personal response. In the event of a cell affair, the Ministry of Health has carried out extremely thorough administrative supervision and has highlighted the extent of the problem, as well as the scope of the blame. It did not point to collective responsibility and therefore to irresponsibility, but it showed that many individuals, each for themselves, were responsible for these events, which took place for 17 years. That's what we reported. We confirmed and pointed the finger at a number of doctors, who may have ordered the test themselves, but did not require it to be delivered, and was indirectly responsible for the possible professional outcome of the treatment. Moreover, we said that if individual professional errors were to occur, even the doctor who did not collect the data would be the most responsible to be responsible for the patient. In any case of individual errors, the most responsible physician would be an individual, allow me to say, and not a pathologist, although in his place he was stalling and providing services to a certain extent. In the case of the 17 years, in the case of the medical generations that were changing during this time, in the case of the leaders who were changing, and with the team that has recently been in the last two, three years, I think that since 2001 - I have made sure that these delays have not occurred in at least the last two years, it would be a hypocrisis to point to the last suit and not to talk about all those previous ones. We think that by the Ministry of Health we have shown in every way: and the public has understood and doctors in the cell hospital have also found their guilt. Let me say this: The public has shown it, the media has shown it, and doctors and health personnel at the hospital have accepted it. However, if you are demanding specific penalties, then I must say that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry, the Ministry has ordered the Council of the Institute to identify individual responsibilities. At that time, there had already been a replacement of the Director-General, and they had already replaced the chairman of this department, and the question finally arises, how deeply and to what extent? Maybe he's taking that matter to every doctor - and what kind of punishment. And here, maybe, we don't agree with that. In this area, we believe that this is an opportunity for a new reflection on how to correct mistakes. The Ministry ordered a large programme of activities for the hospital, and the hospital began to implement them. We think that's the right answer. However, let me remind you that at the same time there is still a forecasting procedure, where the prosecution and the other competent authorities will also identify a specific responsibility. Even in this assembly, it is often shown that it is the responsibility of the individual ministry to demand that the "ad hoc" within one month, with one administrative supervision alone, respond to something that the prosecution and the judiciary cannot or cannot fully respond through years of proceedings. We cannot be fully compensated for this. However, I think we are very clear and not to go away, but we have shown that it is literally the fault of everyone - not that it is not the fault of anyone - each with his own individual responsibility, for every case he has participated in.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u163	Thank you very much. An additional question - Mrs Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Nevertheless, I think it is unacceptable that you have somehow smoothed the affair before the public and in this way are also gathering stakeholders for health reform. In doing so, allow for further questions regarding the first part. Do you think your doctor should ask for a written report because your phone call is not evidenceable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u166	First of all, I don't feel like I'm picking up any special points at the doctor's. This case doesn't go well with doctors either. This should be left to the assessors who are for it. I myself am not competent to judge how they view my work in this regard. True, a doctor must request a test and if he has not received this proof that he does not have it, that he has not been sent to him. Surely the doctor is required to obtain the test, which is then shown in his documentation. Only a phone call about this is not enough to prove that he got that test. The telephone message is also insufficiently objective and subject to any different interpretations. This means that the expert test must always be written down so that we can evaluate it, that it was made. And of course: the recipient must also receive it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Sušnik will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. The Road Transport Act also lays down, inter alia, the conditions and manner in which passengers are carried out in inland transport. The public line transport of passengers is intended to be provided by the State as a public good by granting concessions to the most favourable operators. The concession act is intended to set concession areas, types and volume of transport, public line transport accessibility standards, transport prices and, last but not least, the quality of transport services. Everything is nice and good, but the reality is different in the field of public line bus transport. More or less, inter-country bus and coach services are reduced to the transport of primary school children and students, out-of-work transport, virtually out-of-school transport, thus making it impossible to use this public goods which the State is supposed to offer. This is how we know in rural areas, whole areas, places where there are virtually no bus lines. However, that there are absolutely no connections on Saturdays and Sundays and holidays, that is also true. This shows the complete absence of transport policy, the complete absence of the state, so I ask you: When are you going to fix this unsustainable state? When will you arrange access to public line transport also for residents of the Republic of Slovenia living in remote, remote areas and who are therefore severely disadvantaged? On the other hand, I would also like to know: In this connection, when will the price of public bus transport become more interesting and more favourable for potential users, and when can we also count on pressure in terms of increasing cross-border traffic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u170	Thank you so much for asking. You yourself have already stated what the new law or the current law on road transport on public line transport provides for. However, what you have not mentioned is that the law also provides for the introduction of these public economic services by 31.12. next year 2004. On the basis of this law, there are two professional tasks that will show how to organise this public economic service of line transport, passenger transport. On the basis of the expert discussion, a proposal will be made for an appropriate model for organising this public economic service. As it is said, this period is fixed by law until the end of 2004. Until then, the transitional provisions still apply a certain old law which treats bus transport as a market activity and also sets individual timetables at annual coordination conferences between bus operators. Thus, of course, we will try to get through the organisation of these public economic services before the government and then before the national assembly as soon as possible, and certainly in this, by the law prescribed. period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr Bevk, who has a question for the Minister of Economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In its reply to the Commission on Petitions, the Government stated that, in 2003, there was no reasonable reason for the implementation of the so-called asbestos law not to be implemented both by content and by scope. At the same time, it notes that the estimated budget could not significantly reduce the number of settlement pending. The law will expire in 2004. The Ministry of Health foresees that there will be about 150 new cases of asbestos per year for a number of years. Experts estimate that cases of patients will appear in a larger number in the coming decades. Asbestos sufferers have been waiting too long for compensation. The waiting period is almost two years. In October this year, the Commission addressed the January 2002 applications and the amount of compensation has remained unchanged since 1998. The uncertainty of the sick due to the termination of the law until the end of 2004 is very high. The non-implementation of the law after this year will in particular mean a reduction in the rights of patients who will be found later. Sick workers are difficult to employ or unemployable because of lung disease, and they can become a social problem. The life expectancy of asbestos patients is considerably shorter than that of healthy workers, but many still allow their normal employment. The abolition of the implementation of the asbestos law, and thus the fear that they will not be able to retire later, the forces will become sick of reaching working age and retirement, even though they will receive low pensions. Since it is a younger population of parents with school-bound children, this problem is all the more worrying. I ask Minister Petrinov: How will the government implement the law for the rest of its life and how will the government take a long-term approach to solving the problem of asbestos patients, in particular with regard to the extension of the law? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member! We have answered this question several times. I think that the implementation of the law is in line with budgetary resources, as has been said. This year we'll settle a hundred casualties. It is true that the Ministry of Health is assessing the influx of the '50s, because, of course, the settlement of the injured would be significantly greater. This is also why funds are planned in 2003 and 2004, amounting to 1.48 billion tolars. Let me also recall that, in fact, this law, under which compensation is being made, was designed to restructure asbestos production into incorruptible. 11 companies were involved in this programme and all companies have also completed this restructuring process. Thus, as far as the issue of compensation is concerned, this law also makes it clear that it is a subsidiary responsibility to pay compensation. As a result, since these companies have successfully restructured, discussions also started on whether these companies could be partially involved further, as there are always new victims who were not seen at the time of the adoption of the law. I would also like to point out that this problem will not be left to the affected people themselves. This is why a cross-sectoral working group will be meeting soon. As you know, we have even more commissions. One commission is for the exercise of pension rights under more favourable conditions, as you have already quoted, the Committee for the Agreement Procedures for the Recognition of Indemnities and the Interdisciplinary Commission within the Clinical Centre of Ljubljana. This Interdepartmental Working Group will meet, review the existing law, assess the existing situation and the situation that we can expect in the future - as has been said, new problems are always emerging, new victims - and prepare appropriate changes to address this problem legally in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Another question? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u176	If I have understood your answer correctly, then in the government you are advocating that the existing law be extended for a certain period, I don't know, four, five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr Sok has the floor to ask the Minister for Finance, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u178	Thank you so much for the opportunity to ask my question for the magnetogram. I have also asked Mr Marble a question at the previous session of Parliament. I have received an answer concerning the payment of this year's agricultural damage, but I am not satisfied with the answer. It answers me that the resources to pay the damages in the 2003 budget are, but they are not visible, so you do not see where these funds are actually. Of course, such an answer cannot satisfy me. But as for today's question, let me put it this way. Recently, even in view of the findings of the Court of Auditors regarding the functioning of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, Members of Parliament have turned to us more and more craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who claim to have been harmed by the tax administration in their work. The issues are so much more problematic because the decisions of the second-degree body are mostly the same, if not in all cases, decisions at the first stage. Administrative courts then do not decide on matters after two years or more. It is clear that, over such a long period of time, with blocked transaction accounts and high late interest, debts will increase and ultimately inevitably result in the collapse of the taxpayer. It happens that, in the case of lost actions, it is because of the longevity of the proceedings, that taxpayers end up in a social work institution as social beneficiaries or, in the case of an action received in favour of a taxable person, that the State pays high compensation. Of the four complaints I have received in the last 14 days, I have chosen one which I would like to briefly present and then ask the Minister the appropriate question. Taxpayer, farmer "xx", who deals with the complementary activity of breeding and slaughtering poultry at home. In determining the profit generated, the tax office made a self-assessment of its business, showing a significant profit of EUR 11 million due to non-conformity with the taxpayer’s tax forecast. However, in the performance of the profit, according to the taxpayer’s claims, this is also based on the documentation that I examined, which was provided to me by the entire list of the files, and calculated the increase in chickens over a period of one to two weeks. In addition to his own breeding, the taxable person also bought chicken for slaughter at the poultry company Pivka. It follows from the tax office's record that the average weight of the chickens purchased was 1.60 kilograms and then fed them himself over a period of one to two weeks. The tax office then found, without adequate grounds, that after cleaning them, the undertaking sold these chickens at an average weight of 1,70 kilograms. As it is produced in the slaughter of chickens up to 30 percent and more of the confiscation that is required to be removed harmlessly in the Republic of Slovenia, this means that such purchased chickens should increase on average by more than 0.5 kilograms within one week of the purchase, despite the fact that animals are first lost weight in the transport of stress and then actually increase this weight. In the determination procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u179	Mr. Sok, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u180	My question is this: Does the tax office of the Republic of Slovenia demonstrate sufficient expertise in this and other such cases so that it can determine its own profit. And second question: How much does the Republic of Slovenia pay annually for lost lawsuits in the operation of the tax administration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dr Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Health and Minister of Labour, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. There is no Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. I will, however, begin with the question of the Member of Parliament to the Minister of Health. Mr. Minister, after you suspended the director of the autumn hospital for an affair in gynecology, the director of the cell hospital for an affair with erythropoietin, you also succeeded in replacing the management of the clinical centre for an affair with the operating tables. But I'm not gonna ask you about these things today. I'm sure this story, too, when the goal was reached, will get spooked and go into oblivion. In time, however, it will likely be found, of course at the professional level, that the Mequesa operating tables are delivered because of quality and taking into account lower maintenance costs even cheaper than others and so on and so on. That is why I am asking you about the previous purchase of operating tables from the entire equipment of the eye clinic, in which you personally participated as the professional director of the clinical centre. This purchase involved significantly more serious infringements of public procurement legislation than in the current affair. Let me remind you of a few typical points. The invitation to tender was exceeded by more than 150 million tolars, and in lieu of the medical equipment offered, the number of complaints was lower. Let me just mention the operating tables. Mackey’s desks, which have now been ordered at the clinical centre, were also included in the tender that was accepted after the invitation to tender. The offer for the equipment of the new eye clinic included 5 Macze operating tables for adults of 5 million tolars per piece, and 3 for children of 2 million tolars per piece. Instead of 8 Make tables, however, UFSK operating tables cost 1.68 million dollars for adults and even less for children. It is also clear that the contracting authority paid the full price of the operating tables on offer, which means that Molier paid 16.5 million tolars for five tables for adults. What is most surprising is that in the current affair in the clinical center, you cited exactly the offer made by Molier than the one that would be far more beneficial than the actual choice. Mr Minister, I ask you this: What have you done so far, or what do you intend to do, if anything, to clarify the procedure for ordering equipment for an eye clinic? Did you personally request the replacement of ordered quality operating tables for much worse, which were then the professional director of the clinical center? In case you're not interested in this, I assure you that there's a lot of interest in who picked up the difference in the price of paid and supplied operating tables. Do our patients really not deserve the superior equipment and the better functioning of our health system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u184	Your Honor! First things first. It is known to the public that I did not replace the director of the autumn hospital, who resigned himself, nor the director of the Celje Hospital, who was dismissed by the Board of the Institute, nor the Director General of the Clinical Centre, who resigned himself. I think even today I have experienced the question of why I have not acted more sharply on another story. So, after all, the question is whether it's both wrong. If I act, in your opinion, too harshly or perhaps too harshly. First, some events took place. On the basis of these events, people either retreated or were cut off from the world. I think so, too. If the question arises then what is behind or what is the minister's purpose, let me say in any way, the minister does not want to have affairs in Slovenian hospitals on the basis of which he should take disciplinary action or any other action. He does not want to, not because of himself, but mainly because of Slovenian patients. In the case of an ocular clinic, honourable Member, you are interfering with your own time as Prime Minister. Let's get you out [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u185	[[...]] [[There's no microphone on.]] Be careful what you say because you know what this is all about. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u186	I will explain, and I will explain, that although it is that period, you do not participate, unlike you who accuse me, neither do you, nor the former Minister of Health. It should be known, however, that the Ministry of Health participated as an investor during the period of the occult. This is a completely different situation than in the case of operating tables when the investor is a clinical centre. In the case of an investor of the Ministry, the Ministry shall take care of all circumstances, organisational, professional grounds, checks leading to relevant professional decisions. In the event of the acquisition of equipment, the Ministry of Health authorised the clinical centre to carry out the invitation to tender and conduct the procurement. It really did, the business part of it. This contract is valid. This contract was signed by the current Minister of Health Bručan, Director of the Rode Clinical Centre and supplier Molier. This contract, once again, is correct, on the basis of an invitation to tender, and its content, even today, as we have examined it, is correct. However, after the contract, which became known to us only this year, not yet to the Ministry of the Interior, it became known this year that there was a partial agreement between direct users of equipment, that is, people employed at the ocular clinic who wanted instead of more expensive tables that had already been approved, and on the basis of which we have been saying in the current period that it was a cheaper offer, instead of these tables they proposed even cheaper. In order to make the difference in money, however, they wanted more expensive and more efficient microscopes for their activities from the supplier. We checked this story this year, maybe a month ago, or two, and found out the following. In economic terms, this substitution does not mean financial injury, even the supplier has slightly decreased in the supply at a price. In any event, it constitutes a breach of the law, in which case, since the contract had already been concluded, it had to be renegotiated, so there was clearly a breach of the law. This is what we have also found, informed the competent authorities that at that time, I am talking about the year 2000, a violation occurred. At that time, however, it became known that the procedure had already expired in this respect. So let me answer that. In this case, which you have listed, honourable Member, there has not been an economic breach. However, there has been a violation of the law that we have now tried to sanction, but we cannot sanction it in time. That's the answer. My personal involvement in this case was not at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u187	Thank you. An additional question, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Please, now you've mentioned that you've done some research on this matter. Please, if you are also mediating this national assembly, we will always know how to proceed. Otherwise, a violation of the Public Procurement Act, which was evident, was also made by the Ministry of Finance, namely the State Secretary of Ciccle, and was given a written opinion that no contract should be implemented because it was in obvious breach of the Public Procurement Act. And I have this document in my possession, and I can also present it to you if you haven't seen it in your research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We can proceed with the question, Mr Dimovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr President, this question is for Mr Dimovski. Hello! The Chairman of the Magnificent Government. At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the robbery claimed that the government could not pay its obligations to the craftsmen's fund because there were two interpretations of the law governing the obligation. Following this reply, a written partial judgment was issued, underlining the partial judgment of the District Court in Ljubljana, after which the State has to pay the craftsmen's stock of 64.4 million tolls by the end of this month, together with the statutory late interest from 24 October. On the basis of some estimates, this is all going to cost, now the Slovenian country 700 million tolars. It is clear from the explanation of this partial judgment that it is the payment of an indisputable part of the obligation recognised by the Government as a representative of the defendant. The defendant is the Republic of Slovenia. I ask you, Mr Minister: Has this obligation of the State already been paid or will it be paid by when? At the same time, I ask you: Will the State, in view of this partial judgment, pay the craftsmen's fund an indisputable part of its outstanding liabilities for 2001 and 2002, for which you have already received the invoice? At the same time, as the minister responsible for the entire pension scheme, I ask: Do you not feel personally responsible for the destruction of the craftsmen's fund? Why didn't you pay within the time limit, at least the country's obligations at a level that you recognise? I have done so, and I would like to confirm here, on your part, that the Ministry of Finance has already entered into one of the drafts of this year's balance sheet or in the 2004 and 2005 budget, the funds to cover the State's commitment to the craftsmen's fund and that this item should be deleted in your ministry. Question: "Is this true and why did you do it? Mr Minister, at last I would like to ask you the same question as I asked the Prime Minister at the previous meeting: What does the law mean to you? Where did this right taken by the government to actually ignore the legal provisions and not do what you have to do by law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u192	In view of the fact that the Prime Minister, as you yourself have mentioned at the previous meeting, I think he was answering the question about the craftsmen's pool, let me say that we have provided some information from the Ministry of Finance to answer this question of yours, which has been announced. The Ministry of Finance is the proceedings initiated by the craftsmen's fund before the competent court by way of an action, despite the fact that the administration of the SOP has had the opportunity to resolve these issues, which are State obligations, with a special commission, but has still brought an action before the competent court. As we have been informed - we do not have the written judgment before us and therefore find it difficult to comment - and a partial judgment has been issued to the applicant, the SOP, only an indisputable part of the amount or amount of the action. However, at this point, I can say that the judgment is not yet legally binding, so we expect that, even in the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the State Attorney's Office will appeal to the judgment in question, since the Court failed to take into account the fact that the fund of craftsmen is not actively legitimate for the action, since, in accordance with the law to which you referred, it was not established or reformed in accordance with the company law. The first condition for the Fund to operate actively was that the Fund should be redesigned in accordance with the Company Act. I think this is also mentioned in the law on pension and disability insurance. And that, I would say, is the basis on which the Ministry of Finance has, in some ways, also referred to this action before the court. However, in any case, as the Prime Minister has already said, in fact, solutions that will be made to people are meant to ensure, or fulfil, their obligations as regards their protection for the elderly. This is said to require a comprehensive solution, which, of course, is being prepared or prepared by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with the transformation of the capital company. In any case, if I have not been precise enough, we will, together with the Ministry of Finance, provide information in writing if this is necessary for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u193	Thank you. Any further questions, Dr. Bayuk? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Of course I'm not happy with him, not in any way. It is difficult to understand that now that the court has already decided on that indisputable part that the government itself recognises that we will continue to sue. This happens to us all the time, and not only in this area, but then the state pays huge sums of late interest. This leads us to even greater financial difficulties in the future. Otherwise, I don't understand your argument, since they haven't reformed under the company law. What does that mean? Aren't they? What are we going to tell these people who are still investing in this pension fund and reading the law and interpreting it as having certain obligations that the Slovenian state has undertaken in this law to respect each other? What are we gonna tell these people? I really don't understand why we're hiding under the carpet things that are very clear and which must be and are part of the responsibility of this country, which this national assembly has already accepted in its previous compositions, but we are pushing all of this into the future. I do not find in this budget, nor in the current one, any item that the Slovenian government is willing to admit it at least in the part that it has already told the judge and admitted it is its duty. Are we still going to make amends? What for? We're gonna drag the success story forward for a few more months, so it'll just look better. But the problems will not go away, it exists, this duty is there, you are well aware of it, and I will repeat again what I said to the Prime Minister. The Slovenian government does not have the right to do other things than that when faced with the law, either the law is fulfilled or comes into this national assembly and tries to change it. He has no right to take two, three, four years to sue and arrange meetings and negotiate otherwise. It's not a legal state, it's not a serious government. It's very hard for me to find out again after one month what I was a year ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u195	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u196	I answered. As far as this is concerned, once again, it is a very, as you know, complex matter, so we will carefully prepare a written answer in any case. The fund of craftsmen will have to be formed under the company law. These are also the opinions of lawyers. It currently exists as Sui Genis and under the law on pension and disability insurance and other laws must be recast. This is also respect for the law by the government, or I think that this is the way that will enable this problem to be resolved, but I agree that people who are insured should not suffer as far as this is concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Slovenia is developing very unevenly and is also updating road infrastructure in a very similar way. On the one hand, when the motorway is built, parallel and other state roads are also updated, allowing users to choose the road and to have faster access to selected locations and targets. On the other hand, they do not have an appropriate and sufficiently good link to the motorway network of some major areas. One such area, which does not have an appropriate link to the motorway network and which is the only link to central Slovenia, is also a fishing-coach area. Skofljica road links - the border crossing of Petrina to the Ljubljana bypass represents the largest bottleneck, as drivers face long-term congestion here daily. There are also major problems for locals who only have difficulty getting on the market. In particular, many primary schoolchildren are at risk, forced to cross a paved road. For several years, all local communities have been working to build a suitable highway connection, which is the only link between Ljubljana and which is linked to more than 95% of the activities of the whole area. Amendments have also been tabled in the resolution following the national programme for the construction of motorways, which seeks to include this area in the national programme as a connecting road. I'm interested in the position of the Ministry and you personally with these amendments. Question: How and when do you intend to actually approach the construction of this urgently needed transport link? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I must say that in Slovenia there are quite a few areas of such, which are very long or will never be run by fast roads or motorways. The government has submitted to the National Assembly a new national programme for the construction of the motorway network. In this national programme, we will determine which sections will be an integral part of this national programme, of course, the national assembly will eventually set this - and within which time limits and for which price the individual motorway sections will also be built. In addition, road networks remained, of course, which are about 6,000 kilometres in Slovenia. We take care of this road network as part of the Directorate for Roads of the Republic of Slovenia, which is the body of the Ministry of Transport. And of course, the area you mentioned in your question is an integral part of the study of plans for future investments, which are going in the direction of solving these traffic congestions and traffic congestions, as we are also trying to solve them in some other areas where transport problems are similar. When you ask me what my opinion on the amendments is, of course, I cannot give my opinion in the context of the questions and initiatives put forward, but it will be the subject of debate and adoption of the national programme, which is in the initial stage of the hearing in the National Assembly. Then, of course, the government will be defined. The Ministry will first draw up a proposal and the government will identify itself to the individual amendments that are and will be put into the process of adopting this national programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u202	Come on, the fact is that you as a minister can define yourself. I think we should. The government will take this position or not because it is a collective decision. The fact is, there are many problems on this road as we are now in our condition. In addition, we are looking forward to further new complications, as in this area oil derivatives or stocks will be activated, representing about 20 per cent of all the provisions of the Republic of Slovenia. More than 800 housing units are also envisaged. New trade and business zones on Škofljica are being opened, construction of new school facilities. As a result of all these increases, the situation in this area will only deteriorate substantially. The last time I tabled an amendment to the 2004 and 2005 budgets at a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, namely for 2004, to give 20 million for projects, studies and similar matters, and for 2005 for 300 million for land purchases, you opposed these amendments as a minister representing the government. I wonder why you objected.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u203	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u204	On the supplementary issue, I would like to say that I reiterate that we are concerned about all these road sections in the context of the implementation of the infrastructure improvement programme in the state road network. Of course, we will talk about these things, I reiterate, when we adopt this national programme and when we also adopt the state budget. I objected to the 2004 amendment because I believe that the 2004 budget has already been adopted and because your proposal has intervened in another area. That's why I said the government would probably oppose this amendment because it's taking it in another area. I don't know if it's possible to take it there or not. However, I do not agree with your statement that I objected to the amendment for 2005 because this amendment is the first time I have heard about it and I have not been present in that part of the meeting or for the first time I have heard of this amendment. Of course, I'll get to know you when I get the 2005 amendment list on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy in the absence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With my question, I am asking the Ministry of Environment and Space and Energy. The work areas of this Ministry include the monitoring of water cover and the provision and protection of water resources for quality drinking water in Slovenia. I wonder: How is this area arranged? How do you guarantee and protect water resources, how do you control them? What findings have you reached and what measures are you taking? What do you plan to do in the future, since in Slovenia, not only during the dry seasons, drinking water is already lacking mainly in the eastern and southwestern parts of Slovenia? Climate change, which is unsustainable on the march, as climatologists also predict an even greater shortage of healthy drinking water, requires much greater care for the provision and protection of water resources. Why do I ask that? Among other things, because cases, such as the one I will describe, are worrying and healthy, drinking water concerns each one of us. In the municipality of Command, construction of a large business zone is planned in the area of a rich aquifer. In the vicinity of this area is also a source of drinking water for areas of the neighbouring municipality. Did the process of obtaining construction permits really overlook this important fact just so that a great deal could be done? It is also interesting that the councilors of the municipality of Command cannot obtain information on the planned project, as the mayor does not wish to provide them with this, but refers to procedures at the state level. Mr Minister, I ask: How will you act in this particular case and what is your vision of providing healthy drinking water, since we are finally responsible for our craftsmen? Thank you very much. I would like an oral response to the next assembly of the National Assembly or to the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u207	Thank you for the question and for the definition of how to answer the answer. I give the floor to the absent Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Janez Cimperman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. President-in-Office. Since my question concerns the unsustainable situation in the Slovenian horsery and the attitude of the Ministry of Agriculture on this issue, I would like the Minister to be present when I ask the question, so I will ask the question at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u209	Thank you very much. For the question of the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I give the floor to Dr Mihu Brejc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u210	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, about the possibility of opening the economic representation of the Republic of China, Taiwan, Slovenia. Most European countries have developed economic relations with the Republic of China, Taiwan, which, of course, often grow into cultural and other countries. Only Greece and Portugal do not have economic representations in their countries or their representatives in Taiwan between the members of the European Union. From the accessionees, however, extremely lively relations have been established with the Republic of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia. Hungary has the longest tradition in this respect and also very developed economic relations. Taiwan invested a lot just a while ago, a few months ago in Slovakia, Poland, not to mention Hungary. In this respect, however, Slovenia is somehow at the side and, for reasons unknown to me, does not encourage economic relations with the Republic of China, Taiwan. At a recent visit, representatives of the Taiwanese Government expressed concern and, at the same time, the question whether Slovenia is really not interested in better development of economic and other relations with the Republic of China, Taiwan. I ask the minister: What are the reasons why this does not happen, where are these obstacles? This is also related to the question: When will the visa regime be simplified? We all know that this visa regime for the representatives of the Republic of Taiwan is mainly complex, long-term and not so in other countries. Question: What are the reasons why we have specifically complicated the acquisition of visas for citizens of the Republic of China, Taiwan? The second question concerns [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u211	May I ask for a definition - a written answer or at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u212	I will also be satisfied with the written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Another question for the Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u214	Now here is the question for the Minister of the Interior, Mr Bohinc. Last April, we adopted a law on the public sector wage system in the National Assembly. At that time, we made a number of serious comments in the opposition, but we have expressed our doubts that such a complex issue as public sector wages can be achieved, especially in the fact that all Drnovšk's governments and also, of course, the government of Rope have allowed chaos in all parts and places and in fact through their milkiness and non-systemic approach in this area. That is why we supported the initiative to regulate this area. However, we are concerned that in the deadlines set, there will be no realisation of those conditions that are necessary so that the law can be enforced. In his third reading, the Minister stated or mentioned that the first deadline for the adoption of a common methodology for the classification of jobs and titles was 30 November 2002. The second deadline, which was very important in relation to collective agreements, would relate to -, is the public sector, with the establishment of indicative jobs and titles, which should have been done by 30 March this year. And the third deadline is the adoption of collective agreements of activities or certain professions, but on 30 November 2003. That's how those hands were set at the time. We doubted that. So the question is, what would I be interested in now? Can we expect the law on the wage system in the public sector to come to life, if I may say so, as of 1 January 2004? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u215	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u216	Dear Member, President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This question is of great importance and I am grateful that my colleague Brac raised this to the level of the question. As soon as the law was adopted in last April, there was a large social partnership or negotiation with almost 20 trade unions to implement a number of grounds for the application of this Act from 1.1.2004. It is these issues that have been discussed with the social partners since last spring, in autumn and this spring. We cannot help but say that the law is designed as well as the opposition and that the entire national assembly has strongly supported the importance of social partnership in this area and the importance of collective agreements, the search for a consensus with the trade unions in the construction of this highly sensitive social sub-system. That is why we have really put a lot of effort and effort into preparing the methodology first, then the orientation jobs and then the collective contract for the public sector, as well as the collective agreements of activities and the professional collective agreements. Over 70 government and union coordination meetings were held at this time. The methodology was developed, and in time. However, it is true, as the Member of Parliament correctly points out, that it was not accepted by both partners. But it was made, and it was used in further work. Designed, so-called indicative jobs have been defined, and this is also true that they have not been accepted in the relevant collective agreement because there has been no consensus on this. However, the identification of indicative jobs was the basis for further work in this area. During this period, the so-called classification of jobs and positions in wage classes takes place in a whole range of public sector activities. This is a very sensitive issue of the new evaluation of individual jobs, professions, both in public administration itself, in public administration and in other public sector activities. I now turn to the direct answer to the question whether the basis for the entry into force of the Act from 1.1. next year, as it now shows, will not be possible in all areas to bring about harmonisation and to conclude collective agreements, which is a requirement under the law for entry into force. However, it will be in a number of these areas, specifically in the field of so-called public administration in a broader sense. With regard to the state administration, as well as local self-government, including what relates to salaries of officials, directors, secretaries, salaries in the judiciary, things are going very well, work is going very well and there is a chance to enforce the law in this area within the time limit set. However, there has been no consensus in other areas of the public sector. So this is the moment before the dilemma, whether to enforce the law in those areas where things are ready within the deadline, or, together, to wait for the so-called last wagon in the convoy. This means that there will be consensus within the social partnership in every area of the public sector. Syndicates have been defined differently to this end. The part of the trade unions that are leading or where consensus can be reached advocates to enforce the law earlier or within a period of time in their areas. The rest of the unions are of the view that the debate should be extended and given more time. It's hard to say there wasn't enough time. It has been one year since last April to this year. By the end of this year, as long as there is time, it will be over a year and a half. A year and a half is enough time to carry out this project, which is really demanding, which is really complex, which is really sensitive. However, in order to respect the social partnership, we tend to comply with the trade union requirements and to extend the deadline to 30.6. The already prepared amendment to the law, which has some other details, including the definition of the question of the entry into force of the law, this amendment to the law on the public sector wage system, is already in coordination with trade unions. To date, coordination has shown that most unions tend to extend the deadline to 30.6. in order to include all those who are slightly behind in coordination or reaching consensus on a collective agreement for the public sector or collective agreements of activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u217	Thanks for the answer. Would you like to complete Dr. Brace's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u218	I thank you for that answer. But look, Mr. Minister, we've already had a new law this year, this marriage, and now you're predicting another novel. And it is possible to assume or believe that there will be harmonisation if in one year and a half there was not enough time or you said yourself enough time, but somehow there were other reasons. Are there opportunities or do you believe that in the next, say, six months, everything that doesn't happen in one year and a half? It is my impression and it is, in fact, only confirmed what I was saying at the time in the debate, that I fear that this 10-year period when the government has completely ignored the pay system or acted in an irresponsible, very difficult way now in a year or a year and a half to make up for the emergency system. Is there any chance of a new deadline to be set? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u219	Thank you. We can still get that answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u220	In trade unions, we have put two alternatives in the new law, which is already ready and which is already being coordinated. Before trade unions, there is one possibility that government regulations will temporarily set minimum standards, which means that the law will be enforced and collective bargaining will continue and that we will enforce it on minimum standards with administrative enforcement rules. Another option is to extend the deadline by six months and allow arrangements to take place within the extended period. Trade unions strongly opposed the proposal to regulate, even if temporarily and even only minimum standards, the regulation only so that the law could enter into force with 1.1. Because I believe in the social partnership and I understand that you believe as well, because it has been understood from your discussions so far, it seems reasonable for me to accept the union's request to extend this deadline, especially since I am convinced that a serious, responsible approach is available at the present time, currently extended, possible to reach these solutions. However, we still have the possibility, with greater credibility, then after the expiry of the deadline, to propose a solution to trade unions, which will be a backup solution, which is one for which the state must decide, in the event that things do not run out of time as we want to believe in the context of social dialogue. I believe that this 30.6. next year will not come to an end. A lot of work has already been put in, and it has also been done, and I think it would make sense, but it is not a final government decision, nor is it a final decision of the Ministry. This will be adopted after maybe one more, two more coordinations, if we accept such assessments as I now state that it is reasonable to go into this extension and thus provide an additional time for constructive social dialogue to continue. It may be those who say that we would not now in the haste of two, three months on such sensitive issues and under pressure of time solve, but actually take enough time to bring things to an end in some orderly way and thus establish a system in this country, a system - I very much agree with you - which this country must build after so long. And since it will build it on the principles of social partnership, it is a somewhat more difficult process and therefore so much more qualitative.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-10-27-SDZ3-Redna-30.ana.u221	Thank you, Minister. These were questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Two fellow Members, Sašo Peca and Roman Jakič, were not satisfied with the Minister's response, so they proposed that the State Assembly hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. This will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. I thank the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers for their presence and for their replies. I interrupt this item on the agenda and at the same time today's meeting of the assembly. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your cooperation and good night!
