ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The hour is 10 a.m. and it is time to start today's part of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I invite you to come to the large debate hall of the National Assembly, we will begin work, on the 7th item of the agenda, this is the proposal of the Housing Law. Before that, I will inform the National Assembly of those colleagues and colleagues who, due to other obligations of the meeting today, are not able to attend. These are colleagues of Barovic, Dr. Brace, Horvat, Janša, Jelinčič, Yuri, Kavčič, mag. Kramberger, Partljič, Petan, Peterle, Podobnik, colleague of Pozsončeva, Zamernik, from 12.15 onwards will not be a colleague of Pukšič, for the beginning of the meeting he apologized to colleague Merlo, after 1 p.m. he will not be a colleague of Malovrev, until 3 p.m. of colleague Kelemina. Everyone else is present and will participate in discussions and evening decisions. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - the third defensively proposed housing law. The draft law was drafted by the Government for third reading and, if it so wishes, I give the Secretary of State my word for further explanation. Mr State Secretary Jože Novak will explain to the National Assembly the reasons for the introduction of the law into the third reading. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In line with the decision adopted in the second reading of the proposal for a housing law, the government has prepared a proposal for a law for today's third hearing. With regard to the content of the bill, I must say that all the building up of the marriage text with all the many amendments has, as a result, only attached itself to the systemic objectives announced by the proposer a long time ago. On this occasion, let me repeat some of the more important. These are more efficient management, transparency and security of the assets of the owners of dwellings, raising funds for larger maintenance works in the reserve fund, simplifying and simplifying non-profit rents at the cost level, increasing the volume of rental subsidies for those with a poor material situation, further developing different forms of rental and self-sustainment [[the latter in relation to other regulations in the residential area]] , further protecting buyers in newly built apartments and establishing all necessary records in the residential area. Some of the content sets of the Housing Act, in particular the creation of non-profit rents and the regulation of housing relations taken under the Maintenance Regulations, are among the content where opposite views are present in the public eye and the solutions are definitively proposed. With regard to non-profit rents, we believe that the proposed legal solutions are embedded in the government's economic policy. On average, a 22% increase in rents which concerns or will affect the vast majority of renters of non-profit apartments is foreseen, but will be allocated on time between 30 June 2005 and 31 December 2006. With regard to tenants in denationalised dwellings, the proposed legal solutions in the area of rent and leases maintain the protection of rent for an indefinite period and non-profit rent, and material incentives increase by approximately 19%, to negotiate between tenants and owners on the purchase of a denationalised apartment or the transfer of a tenant to another apartment. Otherwise, several amendments have been tabled for today's third treatment, five by the government as well as amendments to the coalition parties' amendments. The content concerns the legal solutions in the area of housing rental relations, the jurisdiction of the State in the residential area, the regulation of the conditions in the dwellings deprived of maintenance regulations, and the termination of the existing rules. The amendment of the United Nations Charter to Article 173, paragraph 4, is essentially impractical as proposed. Since the Slovenian development society is in liquidation, we must not impose any more obligations on it than it already has under existing legislation. Since the market price is determined through valuation and can be appealed to by any debtor, the procedures will be open for several years, which means that in many cases the right to a replacement purchase will not be realized, so I suggest that the amendment is not accepted. In view of the Government's positions taken, I propose that you support the draft law in the third reading, together with the amendments of the coalition parties supported by the Government, including the amendments of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to Article 106. However, the material for today’s session also explains the reasons why some amendments are not supported by the government. I would also like to inform you that the work on the issue of the necessary regulations is carried out in accordance with the timetable, which, of course, requires a proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u3	The draft law will now be fully presented by representatives of the parliamentary groups. First of all, colleague Sok takes the position of the New Slovenia Group, followed by colleague Potrč, colleague Tanko, Podobnik, Vnučec and someone on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group. Comrade Sok first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u5	In the framework of the announced time. As far as you can decide, but no more than you've reported together. 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much. I wanted to get this straight in the beginning. The housing law that will be passed today in this national assembly is certainly not what we wanted in Novi Slovenija. However, I am convinced that neither is what all the tenants who live in rented apartments want, either with a non-profit or a market rent. The consequences of this law will, in fact, only show up after the adoption, somehow as the consequences of the law on the regulation of the premises and the law on the construction of the buildings show today. It seems strange to us how many complex solutions there are in this housing law and certainly this law will require a multitude of interpretations, as required today by the law on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings. I think that the Ministry of the Environment and Space in relation to these two laws has given more than 100 instructions and answers to different questions. In the second reading, this housing law was accompanied by more amendments than the articles themselves. The amendments were just lined up, the comments were raining, and it is certain that in such circumstances the law can not be adopted without knowing how good. We were already at first reading, and in the first reading, we were among those proponents that we wanted to have a broader public debate on such an important law as housing law. However, the ministry did not show any determination to follow these proposals and to hold this public debate as well. Otherwise, in this country, we are so used to changing laws quickly. Once upon a proposal from the Constitutional Court, on a proposal from the affected, as ever. The law before us is supposed to deal with questions in the residential area, namely types of housing buildings, then maintenance conditions, housing leases, competences and tasks in this area of municipalities and the state through its housing fund, then inspection supervision, punishment. What's interesting, though, is that despite the multi-annual anti-birocratic programme already drawn up by Drnovšk's government and continued by the government of Rop today, this law governs a number of new institutions, both in terms of renting relationships in a non-profit and commercial or rental relationship. If I touch on these new institutions introduced by law, I might first point out that the law requires a new or renewed identification of all apartments, it is said that these apartments are listed to be labelled and reported to the relevant institutions. Of course, we are aware, and we are convinced that this provision in this law is intended for only one purpose, and this is to prepare an appropriate law on the addition to real estate. This will be the next step and result of this law. We do not know why it would be necessary to re-identify all multi-resident buildings, but when data on these matters already exist and should only be updated.At the same time, of course, this will mean a new bureaucratic need and it is illogical to talk about the anti-biocratic programme with which the government, hereinafter, also rejects one of the amendments that has been tabled for this third reading today. It is illogical and pointless, and we have had this comment in our first reading, that all buildings having two or eight flats are considered to be multi-housing buildings and that it is stipulated by law that all these residential buildings must have a new manager, that the tenants in these buildings must adopt a maintenance plan, conclude a mutual contract, and that then these operators comply with this maintenance plan. We had already pointed out this in the first reading, and then in the second reading, we proposed an amendment where we wanted this obligatory appointment of an administrator to turn into an optional one and we proposed the word "may". It does not seem logical to us that a large number of high-level owners in some buildings, as well as those with a maximum of two floor owners, would be subject to the same principle of managing through the manager. If the tenants don't appoint the manager themselves, and I don't think that's going to happen in most cases either, but of course the law has authorized this task to be performed by the inspection service, that is to say an inspection responsible for housing matters. Since I live alone in an apartment, both in Ormož, where I have permanent residence, as here in Ljubljana, where I have temporary residence, I know that such a provision, at least as regards smaller rural municipalities, is virtually impossible. I just have to say that these relationships between the tenants have been regulated in a completely different way between us, and I don't believe that someone can just suddenly find us some kind of manager who will regulate what we've been regulating ourselves so far, is the one who will have our property. The next thing that seems totally unacceptable to us is the introduction of some kind of reserve fund. We had a comment on this at first reading. Later, in the second reading, we also tabled an amendment, by the New Slovenia, proposing that in the law this provision, which is also binding, be converted into an optional one, namely that the law provides that residents may establish such a reserve fund. We believe it's some kind of new form of tax. Otherwise, you can call it a fund, but it's a new burden. Minister Digger said on a television show that this wouldn't be a big deal. But right now, it's not clear what these funds are going to be. But I have to say that whatever they are, this is going to be some kind of fundraising, these are going to be some side funds that these managers will then have, and the residents will not have a big impact on spending this money. We are against it, and we strongly oppose it, even though it is the Government's explanation that this is already laid down in the real law. We are convinced that lex specialis in the area of housing is this law. Therefore, on the basis of this law, this provision may be deleted or at least converted into an optional principle, it is said that residents may prescribe such a reserve fund themselves. In this law, the problem of residents in denationalised dwellings is still not solved. We understand, however, that these tenants who have settled in these denationalized dwellings, on the one hand, want and are also entitled to buy the apartment under those laws, by which they bought the apartment for the most of our citizens, if I simplify it, under the so-called Yazbinski law. On the other hand, we understand the tendency of the owners of these dwellings or their commitment, which also stems from this law, that as good owners, they must care for their own dwellings. How can they care if the tenants pay them non-profit rents? Together with the Social Democratic Party, we wanted to be illogical and, I would say, in a way, the socialist principle of thinking to change and we tabled an amendment to allow those tenants who do not meet the criteria for non-profit rent and live in these apartments to be provided with a market form of rent, while the State, on the other hand, provides sufficient resources to resolve this problem in some way with alternative dwellings. Unfortunately, this amendment has not been adopted and thus remains this issue with respect to denationalised dwellings completely unresolved and somehow always burdens those who were seized 50 years ago and over. Let me finish. This law, such as it is, will not bring significant innovations in the housing field. In fact, it still primarily protects tenants from owners; it does not solve the problem of denationalised dwellings; on the other hand, it introduces many bureaucratic barriers and will not be possible to implement them as such. Although the law will become legal after its publication in the Official Journal, the question is whether it will be legitimate if citizens are unable to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Comrade Potrč, behind him by his colleague Tanko. First, Comrade Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u8	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! The Housing Law is among the issues covering the interests of the widest range of citizens and citizens, their expectations, their pressures, their injustices, and it is no wonder that there are so many interests, different views and contradictions about it. It's very difficult for this marriage to satisfy everything. Nevertheless, the legislator should decide which of these issues is preferred. The housing law in our situation has so many more questions after mass privatisation in the early 1990s. The conditions and possibilities of acquiring ownership of dwellings at the time and today are not comparable. Due to the unique method of denationalisation, when we alone and nowhere else have the previous owners returned to their homes together with housing rights holders, which is a unique case in the practice of denationalisation in Europe, important groups of citizens and citizens have caused irreparable injustices, and on the part of owners and tenants, permanent conflicts have been built up. They are supposed to be saved by a new tenant and owner, although they are not guilty, neither of these two, for having been forced by the State, which is especially the case with the weaker customer. The most sensitive and social difficulties are therefore, according to the United List of Social Democrats, two groups of issues: the situation of tenants, not just those in denationalised apartments, and the situation of applicants and housing planners, who do not have material conditions to be able to obtain own housing because of high housing prices and their income. It is precisely on the latter two groups of issues that, according to our assessment of the draft law, are the least encouraging and least imaginative solutions. Tenants can expect significantly higher rents in the coming years. Their legal security and terms of employment are becoming significantly worse. The possibilities of housing cancellation are also becoming more widespread in the legal system, not just in terms of the actual situation, as the weaker side of their rights makes it much more difficult to enforce. Expectants and housing applicants will also be waiting in the long run for calls from municipal housing authorities. In this regard, the law is unclear as to the criteria for the allocation of dwellings. In the future, social and non-profit housing is equal, it is not clear what will be the importance of the social situation of applicants and how much will other criteria, etc. affect the priority of allocation. In the drafting of the law, the question arises whether the proposed solutions are constitutionally compatible in this respect or provide for overly volatile criteria which should not be defined at all, which should be followed and developed by an unknown regulation or methodology and by law. The issues of conditions and criteria for the award of a specific new form of so-called accommodation units to be allocated to the most socially vulnerable groups are clearly addressed. On these two groups of issues, we were particularly careful when preparing the law in the United List of Social Democrats. Unfortunately, this does not apply to most other parties. The proposed solutions have not been sufficiently coordinated with the stakeholder group of tenants, although it has its own association, and the applicants have not been organised at all. In residential administrative municipalities, however, the interests of the municipal administration are protected, not by the applicants. Inadequate regulation of these two issues was also assessed in particular after the adoption of the law at second reading. To the bill-maker, this is the Ministry of Environment and Space, we have proposed not to require the third reading of the law at this meeting, since we had very little time, three, four days, to study and prepare the amendments. There was not enough understanding for our proposal, but coalition parties have shown understanding for part of our proposals. Thus, we have put in place a number of joint amendments to compromises for all, including governments. If these amendments are accepted, most of them with some additions are supported by the government, then I hope that something will be the most, I would say, screaming or poor solutions of my favorites and there will be some improvements only adopted in marriage. In short, this is a matter of condition for the replacement privatisation of former housing rights holders' apartments in denationalised apartments. Our proposal to be unacceptable was also explained today by the Secretary of State. Let me put it this way. For a long time, the United List of Social Democrats was the only one that stressed that the country had caused injustice in its legal arrangements. It's not like that anymore. This is undisputed today by the Ombudsman and has also been discussed by the National Assembly and, in principle, has taken note of this fact. At that time, we were able to tell a great deal of how terrible injustices had been committed and that they needed to be rectified. It's not in the law for now. This is also undisputedly noted by Mr Magnus Hammet, the Secretary-General of the International Tenant Organisation, who visited Slovenia last year, and this is also undisputedly stated by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Mr Alvaro Gilles Robles. We pay particular attention to these problems because we do not want Slovenia to find itself on a sad bench in front of the European Human Rights Forums on this issue, and again, in Slovenia, we would like to see the loudest people condemning the demands for a solution to the problem, not stressing the responsibility of those who have not been prepared to solve the problem for a decade. We therefore accept the proposal for a housing law by Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats with considerable doubt. There is no doubt that a new law is needed, and there is no doubt that progress is being made in some areas. But we are not satisfied with the process of accepting it, because it would give us more time to think about and seek compromises, and especially to talk to vulnerable groups. We are convinced that Slovenia should also think more about these issues at the threshold of Europe, and that, after the experiences and warnings we have, the principles of solidarity, social justice and concern for the most vulnerable have been much more established in the field of housing policy in Europe, and that we have given the economics of this area a major emphasis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Comrade Potsch. My colleague, Jože Tanko, will present his views on the proposal for a bill by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He will be followed by a colleague of Malovre for the SLS Group. Comrade Tanka first, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. The law we now have before the final adoption of the National Assembly is one of the key laws of this year. It incorporates high expectations for all owners, tenants, managers, investors, beneficiaries, youth and young families, students and others. All of them, and we expected significant changes to boost the anemic housing market and encourage housing to reduce the huge housing deficit, to lower housing prices, to revive economic growth. Of course, such a more radical intervention is not enough to build up the old law and to do the service only to the strong, aggressive, and politically oriented lobbying that have acquired or spoken for themselves in advance security and comfort. I must say that we are concerned that the drafting of the law, and therefore in the long term also housing policies, has taken place in very narrow and very interesting circles and has fully addressed those who will be the key beneficiaries of the law. Our parliamentary group has been pointing to the lack of such work since the beginning of the consideration of the bill. We expected that, due to the importance of the housing sector and many interests, the proposer would decide to make a public presentation of the views of different stakeholders and different users. Since the drafter of the law did not decide on this option, our parliamentary group proposed this to the working body, the Infrastructure Committee, to adopt a decision and that the content of the law, objectives and solutions should only be made public. But there was no hearing. Therefore, the investigation was carried out on a case-by-case basis. Many amendments were tabled to complement the text and the solutions of the law. However, in our parliamentary group, although many of our amendments have been adopted, we consider it a waste of opportunity to truly transform the housing market and relations that should rule in this area. In this debate, I would like to draw attention to some of the solutions that, in our view, will significantly and disproportionately burden certain categories and again bring extraordinary benefits to others. I would also like to draw attention to the solutions that we have proposed and advocated in the debates and discussions so far. First, a few words about what marriage brings. Firstly, non-profit rents will be substantially increased. In some cases, three times as well. Bureaucratisation will increase as the law introduces both the municipal and national consumer protection councils and the Housing Chamber, which will be financed or assuredly financed mainly by public funds, i.e. budgetary resources. To all those citizens who have been favourably sold by the State and have been allowed to become owners, the law will now require that in a special account with the building manager, they must pool the funds of the reserve fund that will be spent under the building manager's programme. The amount of the reserve fund is not determined. The country does not now recognise the ability to raise money and to raise housing for those owners and that they will still be able to behave as a good master. The funds collected by managers in a special account are likely to vary depending on the age of the building ranging from 0.97 to 1.67%) or about 20% of the rent. This will not be a small deposit to manage and dispose of the manager. The reserve fund will also be a special penalty for beneficially purchased apartments for owners. In time, the manager will take over the function of the deposit manager in particular. The law also legalizes the wild ownership of attic apartments. It grants large rights to residents in denationalised and relaxed dwellings, offering them 74% of the state's grants in different forms as compensation, while for most of the remaining missing funds, it provides them with a favourable loan of the housing fund. An important banking institution called the Housing Fund is left completely unsupervised by the State, both in business and in debt, even though it is the debt of the Housing Fund as part of the country's indebtedness. The borrowing of loans from the Housing Fund shall be decided solely by the Supervisory Board of the Fund; this is not just a matter for the story of the SIB to be repeated. It is totally unacceptable that the government is proposing to the beneficiaries of a non-profit apartment not only the normal payment of the security, but even the payment of their own participation for beneficiaries who have been granted the apartment on the basis of poor social conditions. The very lucky people of this part of the social scale will have to provide a deposit to the state or state institution of 30 to 40% of the value of the apartment at the time of moving. Let's just think about how much this is in Ljubljana or other places! Since they are financially poor, they will not be able to obtain favourable bank assets, but will be forced to borrow on the grey market and pay high interest on this loan. This law thus exposes the largest beneficiaries of non-profit housing — those living under the most difficult conditions — and even more so, they are pushed into a hopeless or inexhaustible situation. Of course, it is very easy to challenge and criticize the solutions proposed by the government or the government coalition. We have also worked very hard in the opposition to deal with this law. We Social Democrats, alone or together with New Slovenia, have proposed a number of proposals and have been actively involved in the debate at all stages of the hearing and have advocated our solutions. A number of proposals have been adopted, but I believe that the proposals that have not been adopted are crucial for the development of the housing market, especially for relations between owners, tenants, managers, the country and the municipality. Let me write down some of our concerns. Payment to the reserve fund would make sense for all owners, including the state and the municipalities. Such a half-solution, which burdens only those who bought the apartment, is controversial, since in most cases, or in almost all cases, it is adequately maintained and the institutions which are exempt are proven to be the worst owners. Even worse, the amount is not fixed, no criteria are laid down and it appears that everything will be left to the law and to the lobbying of administrators. Our client has prepared an additional proposal limiting the level of the deposit, and I think it would make sense to support it. We also disagree in our party with the provision of Article 91, which imposes on all those who have acquired a non-profit apartment under social criteria the payment of their own participation, as I have already mentioned, even there perhaps 30 to 40% of the value of the apartment. I believe that such a provision, in view of the target group we want to help, is completely flawed. We have proposed a deletion, and as it has proved to be, it has failed. Comrades propose and advocate a significantly less social option. It is incomprehensible that the government coalition wants to squeeze the most out of those with the most difficult conditions. All of these, including the last tolar. How different her conduct is in the 170th article of this same law, which regulates another matter. We've proposed subsidisation of all rentals, not just non-profits. The situation in the residential area is chaotic and bad. Non-profit apartments are extremely small, waiting periods are very long and nothing shows that the situation will soon improve. That's why a lot of tenants are forced to rent a profitable apartment and some pay extremely hard. Even so, the economic situation is quite uncertain, many have very poor wages, many do not get them after months or are even unemployed. In particular, there are many students and students from poor rural areas who are forced to seek housing in educational centres because of the situation. Therefore, we believe that it is right that this area should also be regulated, that a step should be taken towards approximately equal living conditions for all citizens, and that this also gives us an overview of the broadcasting of dwellings. It's amazing, but it's true that the worst record is in large and self-sufficient municipalities. Emergency cash assistance must be an obligation and not a choice of municipalities. It is unacceptable that those who have been treated differently from congregation to congregation for various reasons, such as death or illness or loss of employment, find themselves in an unfavorable situation. She'll come to their aid somewhere, somewhere else she won't, in some congregations she'll get help, one another she won't. I believe that this area needs to be regulated in a uniform manner, like subsidisation of renters. An extremely important correction of the content of this housing law means our proposal for one-off cash assistance to those who for the first time solve their housing problem. This proposal represents an excellent complement to the national housing scheme and would encourage citizens' self-initiativeism and allow real opportunities for them to start solving their housing problems themselves within existing and available resources, but not for the regulation to make them dependent on state and parastatal institutions. Single parents, disabled persons, tenants, and young families would be excused for this help. What would that accomplish? Better use of existing buildings and building areas, since attics, roofs, roofs could be arranged, apartments restored. It would improve energy efficiency, reduce heat losses. The pressure on change or unnecessary destruction of agricultural land would be reduced. It would revive housing, reduce the pressure on calls for non-profit housing, and therefore also on the housing fund, and it would probably also result in a fall in the extremely high prices of buildings, apartments, rents and so on. Finally, the pressure on the social funds of society would also be reduced, as those who solve the housing problem themselves in their homes are not excused for subsidies or for financial aid. The excessive insurance of the tenant before moving to another suitable apartment is also controversial. According to the provisions of Article 106 of the Law, this is theoretically impossible, let alone practical. This provision prevents, in particular, the private broadcasting of dwellings and is probably due to these unbalanced rights and obligations between tenants and owners, that only in Ljubljana there are some 1000 dwellings that could contribute significantly to reducing the waiting period to solve the housing problem. I believe that the proposaler should be more subtle in regulating the relationship between the owner and the lessor, not only to encourage the surrender of empty apartments, but also to encourage and lay the conditions for the construction of new, larger and rounded units from private resources. And it's not just for sale, it's for broadcasts. This part of the law that is supposed to stimulate this type of construction does not exist. This is also why each call for investment in the National Savings Scheme increases the number of stakeholders by 10 or more thousand. I'm guessing there's about 70,000 of them now. It is at least as much a desire and hope and unsettled needs. This project is becoming similar to the game 'catch the cash', otherwise under the auspices of the state, but still. The project operates according to a pyramidal principle, since only rare investors come to the apartment. It appears that this scheme is more of a fund, or a reserve fund, to which investors and citizens must pay in advance if they want to be among those who can apply for non-profit housing offers and among those who are rarely fortunate enough to be granted such an apartment. The new non-profit apartment, which is supposed to be one of the important objectives of this project, has less than a dozen of them. The special chapter is a housing fund which has fallen under the rules on denationalisation. There are also partners, owners and tenants in completely different situations. One in a fully privileged, other completely subordinate.The tenants who were settled by the former state after 1945 in a nationalized and confiscated apartment have been granted exceptional benefits and, with the previous law, also confirms their non-profit rent, regardless of their social situation. In the event of eviction or redemption, however, they are subject to an exceptional number of grants. In a different situation, however, they are the owners of the apartments. Not only were their apartments taken inhumanely 50 years ago, but they and their parents had to emigrate violently. These apartments were returned with a tenant from whom they cannot claim a profit, not from the tenant or not from the State which caused this complex situation. If the state represented by the ruling coalition wants to maintain the non-profit status of these tenants, it should also assume the burden of this decision and make it right in accordance with common sense. At the same time, the owners who received these apartments were not exempt from any good master's duties. Many apartments are pretty much destroyed, we should invest a lot, as if they were owned by them at a time when they were taken away and not available to them. The Group has re- tabled amendments to some open articles, but to those for which we have useful proposals. We believe that with the adoption of these laws, a considerable amount of law would be acquired, and certain illogicalities, shortcomings and empties would be eliminated. I suggest you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Tanko. Mr Malovra will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He'll be followed by Comrade Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Members and Members. The opinion of the parliamentary group on the adoption of housing law took place, in slogans, "under pressure of urgency", how to better regulate this area. For such an extensive and important law covering and touching several areas and policies, let me mention some, space, real estate, social, community, families and so on, Members would need more time to consult experts in particular areas, and above all a better legal draft, since more than 120 amendments were tabled in the second reading and also in the third reading, we have many amendments again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that there was not enough time for careful examination and harmonisation of the articles. A number of comments and opinions reached the law tabled in the procedure at all stages of the procedure, which are partly summarised in the amendments of the four coalition groups, but we are not satisfied with all the proposed solutions in the law. We have a lot of questions coming up here, so before we vote on the law, we want to hear again the opinion of the competent ministry whether this law will really regulate and improve the relationship between owners and tenants and apartment managers in multi-housing buildings, whether this law will really help improve the supply on the market, or whether the owners, I think, of the municipalities, will be able to offer enough housing with non-profit rents, given the growing needs of the people in Slovenia and the limited resources for subsidies and the construction of new dwellings. Here we impose even greater obligations on the congregations without their consent. Will the housing fund really increase and prices will be designed to be acceptable to young families? Will the relationship between equity and rental apartments improve for the benefit of others? There is also a major intervention in rent. Will the prices of dwellings in Slovenia become more European comparable, lower for residents, or will the maintenance of rental apartments be better and more regular than in many cases they are now? All these issues continue to arise from a review of the many comments we have received on the proposal of this Act. We expect that, according to the Ministry's answers, all of this will be achieved by this law and the objectives of the law will be achieved. We expect, in view of the ministry's promises and interpretation, that after the adoption of the law, there will not be a whole plasma of disputes and even constitutional complaints already announced by tenants, for example, in relation to Article 106 of the Law, given the possibility of a one-time relocation of tenants without a valid reason or a solution to the problem of tenants in denationalised rental apartments and the like. The general assessment of the association of tenants is that the law will exacerbate the position of tenants in relation to owners. They claim that they are different in their relationship abroad. The owner is placed in the function of the maintenance of the apartment and the tenant has the position of a sovereign owner who has a firm, legal and factual position. Like some other laws, for example, the Real Estate Intermediation Act, this law also imposes a number of tasks and obligations on the municipalities. Therefore, from the outset, our Group has pointed out that at least a draft law on the financing of municipalities and certain sub-legislative acts and regulations should be needed to assess how the law will be implemented and affect the regulation of relations in this area and whether the municipalities will also receive adequate resources to carry out their duties under this Act. In the procedure, we have drawn attention to certain provisions of the real-law code and the bond code to which the housing law affects and regulates them differently. This is also a comment by the Supreme Court. And comments on the amendments. There is still some confusion and confusion in the third reading, so the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support amendments which we believe are at least partially resolved and take into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service and the government. We will support the amendments of the Government to Article 42 and all amendments of the Government to the amendments of the four parliamentary groups to Article 87, the amendment to Article 103 and the amendment to Article 106. We will also support some other amendments that improve and clarify the text, such as the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats and the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 106, because they improve and define the provisions more clearly. The government also supports you. A new law is needed. However, we are not quite sure whether it is this law that will solve the accumulated problem or whether we will have to build up this law in due course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Malovre. My colleague Peca will now present his parliamentary position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u14	Your Honor, I'll be very brief. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the proposal for a law should be one of the more important laws, and thus, of course, one of the better ones, which will have or will represent some kind of whole. Unfortunately, we are still assessing that three sets remain open in all stages, in all the changes and in all the amendments. First, the role of the Housing Fund and the local community and funding. Secondly, the non-coherence of the law with the partners in the Presidency, which has already been discussed or presented by other parliamentary groups, and thirdly, the introduction of the category of inequality. We estimate that these three sets have so many shortcomings that we cannot give green light to the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Housing Law, which was passed in 1991, experienced many corrections and also the annulment of individual articles by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the need for a new law is, of course, more than obvious. The so-called housing reform, with which the then authorities sold out apartments owned by society, has allowed a large majority of the older generation to reach the apartment, and unfortunately these opportunities are now younger, active, and the generation will never have again. This housing law has also caused many injustices and years of dissatisfaction and the judicial battles of those tenants who have lived and still reside in apartments that have been denationalized because they were unable to redeem them, as well as new old owners who were unable to enjoy the property in its entirety. However, there were other problems with the purchases of apartments, especially in multiple dwellings, when the new owners failed to negotiate the management and maintenance of common property. The misunderstandings encountered in the selection of the operator, the execution of essential maintenance works, the execution of other works and so on were almost constant in all multi-housing buildings with multiple-level owners. While the bill brings some novelty, it is intended to facilitate the maintenance of such buildings and the execution of necessary construction works, we do not consider that to be sufficient. We also find it unhappily new to the introduction of the so-called reserve fund, which divides owners into two parts and will create a number of problems. Although we have tried to resolve this flaw in the Young Slovenia Party with the amendment, unfortunately the majority of the government has not accepted it. In this law there is also a change in the employment relationship. So-called social housing is being abolished, and now we have only non-profit apartments - one with the possibility of own participation and the security of the tenant, the other without these own deposits, which are intended to target socially more vulnerable people. The abolition of so-called social housing is intended to replace non-profit housing. Whether these apartments will be really non-profit-making and actually intended for those socially disadvantaged and will be really social, but the second issue is that the rent will be set by the Minister's rules. Of course, the possibility of owning a rental apartment is welcomed, as this would help to build new apartments. We are concerned, however, that the amount of these own resources is not mentioned in the law. This will certainly be the case here with the excessive demands of the owners, whether it be a congregation or a housing fund, and we will soon be able to destroy the non-profit of such an apartment and thus the good intentions of both the legislator and us under question. We are all aware that the applicants for non-profit housing are primarily young families and individuals who have no other option to solve their housing problem. These categories of people are among the most vulnerable. We believe that the purpose of all of us is to adopt a good law that will not cause additional problems and make it even more difficult to obtain non-profit apartments for those who really need them. It should be possible for non-profit renters to be entitled to it. This, of course, must not apply to tenants of denationalised apartments and tenants who have entered into a lease until this law is implemented. Although the law in our legal system cannot apply backwards, we would still like the possible fears of tenants not to be increased in denationalised apartments. We also believe that the desire of all of us that this law, which we are adopting today, should be a good law and not need to be corrected in a month or two, as in practice in many other laws. How this law will work in practice depends also on the number of sub-legislative acts and regulations provided for by the law and is prescribed by the Minister. One of the most important will certainly be the rule for calculating non-profit rent. In accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, it is possible to rent much higher than it has been before. That is why it is so much more important what these submarital acts will be like, because they will directly affect rents for renters. While the Minister ensured that the new methodology for calculating non-profit dwellings did not lead to substantially changed circumstances for renters. We hope the Minister is aware of the seriousness of his promise. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And he'll think about it when he makes this rule. [[...]] Given that we have already announced in the second reading, if our amendments do not accept that we will not support the law, we will not now support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. Will anyone perform on behalf of the LDS? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We have a lot of colleagues and colleagues reported in the debate between Members and Members. The first one was asked by colleague Sok. Would you like a word, Comrade Sok? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it has been interesting to listen to the representatives of some of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, which are getting further and further from what will obviously be adopted today. You use the word "do not doubt" or "do not know for sure." But the fact is, there's a parliament in this country, not a minister. It seems to me that there will be a similar story in this law to the alcohol restriction law, where everyone is speaking today, I was not in favour of it, but with a large majority the law was passed in Parliament. And I have no doubt that this apartment law will be the case today. On behalf of New Slovenia, I have made it clear that we do not doubt, but we know that this law, as it is, will not be possible to enforce it in practice. That the marriage would be legal, but if it is not possible to enforce it, it is a matter of its legitimacy. Therefore, for this reason, of course, we foretell and have already told others behind us that we will not support such a law. The law is extremely complicated. It contains a bunch of confusing articles which will, of course, result in different interpretations. It would be interesting to see how this law would be translated into the language of one of the European Union countries, for example, into English. I don't think it would be one hell of a thing for anyone to understand. Even in this language, as it is written, I can't understand what some articles mean, I don't know. I'm not going to list all these articles. But some articles are written almost on the fourth page in one sentence and so on. I don't know who's going to be giving this interpretation or why the Ministry of Environment and Space is going to come up with such complicated articles, but when some things could be given in a much simpler way. And that's what we wanted from the opposition with the amendments. And we did. In particular, housing law should mean more flexibility and fairness, and more of these principles in an extremely important area called housing policy. For housing policy depends in many ways also on population policy. If you have a good housing policy, you can influence some equivalency of population in this country. That is, of course, the opposite for us at this point. That, because of the inability to get an apartment, people, young people leave rural areas and concentrate on larger cities, and this, of course, has great consequences that will come only after us. Thus, this law does not intend to regulate and promote housing policy in this way. Once again, I can say that the aspirations of this law are, above all, the following. First of all, according to our belief in Novi Slovenija, prepare a suitable basis for a new law to follow, this is the real estate tax law. The second issue that this law introduces is the kind of violent introduction of managers. Even where you are in multi-housing buildings, the high-level owners will not want you to. I specifically don't want that in the block where I live, because we have this problem solved. We solved this problem, why would the state now, if it were my property, impose on me someone who would walk and manage my property. And he forced me to accept what kind of maintenance plan I had to adopt and so forth. It just won't be. I'm not gonna let that happen. So I won't, and then I'll have this house inspector make me do it if he can make me do it. I don't know why that's the way it's handled. And I'm also sure that, of course, these managers will be, because I see who's interested in these things today, some co-workers and supporters of the great coalition. This will, of course, be a concession and so on. And with that key, these people will choose and not just manage. In the next phase, I will also be monitored and reported. I don't know who came to me, how many came to me, and so on. I don't know. I suppose that's the case, so you're fighting so hard that these executives are forced. I'll say it again. We could enter into the law, but not a law that is suitable for Ljubljana, but is not suitable for a small environment, where people live, where we know each other, where we greet each other, we do not live here in Ljubljana, and where we live quite differently. And that's -- yes, it is, you can laugh, Mr. Potts, but I don't know my tenants here on Kotnikov's 20 most because I just came and I'll be here for a while, and I live there for a long time. I live there, not here. I'm just here temporarily. Then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u19	Peace, peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u20	You'll get your word. Then, of course, some fund, some reserve fund, is being introduced. Of course, these managers have to be paid by means, and the simplest way is to prescribe, we're going to set up some fund. We already had housing funds. We already have. I remember that at the time we painted in the block where I live, the staircase, of course, was paid from the housing fund, at the price of 6,000 German marks. We'd do it today, I'll tell you, maybe less than 1,000. But then it was a fund. It was money, why shouldn't it be expensive? That's where it came in. And this proposal, this is a purely socialist approach that does not take into account market legality and private property. It's going this way again. Why would someone who buys become a major owner in a new multi-housing building have to immediately collect for a reserve fund from which some maintenance will be performed. What kind of maintenance? I have to pay all the costs. The cost of heating, the cost of electricity, the cost of water. At the cost of these services. And there's something else I'm going to have to collect, some money that this manager's going to have. Suma sumarum, that's gonna be a lot of money. This will not be small, it will go into billions of Slovenian tolars. And with this, of course, someone will rule and be paid for some of the services that I mentioned earlier. On the other hand, of course, it is envisaged, including what is the proposal of this law and what you, Mr Potč, have kindly warned about, raising non-profit rents. Today, we know, and of course, according to this increase, what the ministry also recognises, a reduction in the number of subsidised tenants. So this will be an extraordinary pressure during this period when the number of unemployed increases, when wages freeze and so on. Extensive pressure on the citizens of this country. And the consequences of this marriage will be great. That is why we are already drawing attention from the opposition to the consequences of this law. And today it is not good to refer to this when we have suggested that the debate should spin more slowly, to postpone it to the next session, etc. This is simply what this Parliament must do with this majority, and the ruling coalition has this majority. It's just an empty excuse to be forced by someone, or a minister can force us to do it. It is not possible for us to vote like this, but because we have voted differently, because we support this issue, in the majority, in this House, and that is why it is happening in the way it is. This, of course, raises new, unresolved questions. And one more thing. The opposition's proposal was that this law should be directed towards the housing fund in this direction in order to provide for socially weak families with multiple children, families with disabled children, etc. They had a prior right to acquire a non-profit apartment. But no. The government and, of course, the ruling coalition support this, suggests that it has the advantage of obtaining this apartment, a non-profit, one that can invest its own resources. I don't mind, but how do we protect these socially weak categories? Are we going to leave them? Because, of course, all investors will immediately give their own participation and take into account, and if their own participation is the one that will, of course, have an impact on the acquisition of housing, then, first and foremost, those who have more money will receive housing from those who have larger families, etc. Such a proposal, of course, cannot be agreed by the Christian and human parties in New Slovenia. That's what we've been warning you all along. You still have a chance to change that. You can still table an amendment today and delete this matter of your own participation from this proposal if you want to protect the socially weak categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u21	My friend Tanko. You're giving up. A replica because he mentioned you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u22	Mr. President! Because Mr Sok reminded me earlier; I only wanted to say one joke. In Ljubljana, in my bloc, I also welcome those I do not know by chance, so that this is a matter more of an image, not of being in Ormož or in Ljubljana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u23	Good. Please, Comrade Sok. I think we've explained.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u24	It is polite to say hello, but to cultivate the duty not to think that we are so rude in New Slovenia that we do not welcome and do not heal. I wanted to let you know, of course, that we don't know each other here. We don't know each other. Maybe you misunderstood me. And that in small environments, we breathe differently than in these large apartment towers. That's what I wanted to warn you about, so I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u25	Good. The misunderstanding is over. We exceptionally let the replica into the replica. It's Christmas. He's not here. Also not Comrade Jelinčič. My friend, do you want to discuss it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief on this marriage. Because what I'm listening to here proves to me that it's impossible to make a law that would satisfy all my interests. Even what we have considered and listened to in the first or second reading of the Infrastructure Committee is practically impossible to satisfy the interests of both different groups who would like to enforce in this law what they rightly expect. It is likely that it is impossible to reconcile definitively and satisfy the interests of former owners or owners of denationalised apartments. On the other hand, it is almost impossible to correct injustices against residents in such homes as were caused more than 10 years ago. How to meet the demands of the congregation on the one hand and, of course, also protect the interests of the state budget on the other hand, for which we are sitting. In fact, how to harmonise that the law will not be socialist, as we have heard, and that it will not be capitalistic, as it has already been spoken, and that it is written in the interests of capital. How to accept the fact that we will discuss this same session on budget rebalancing and try to frame budgetary expenditure at the level of the new estimated revenue while at the same time supporting the amendments that bear billions of new commitments to the state budget. I believe, of course, that we are all trying to get as good a marriage as possible today, but we will not, but not in two months, no, because it is not possible to get so many different interests on such a good common denominator that we will all be satisfied. Of course, I believe that there may be a need, perhaps even soon, for certain corrections, because the law is complex, it interferes with such different areas and only practice will show how good it is. I hope it's better than we've got a residential area now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. My contribution will be brief. I'm going to touch on two, three basic questions. First of all, Slovenia came to the so-called state, where this fund, the public fund, is extremely modest. That is why, of course, there are problems for young families in the country, and on the basis of this law, the question is whether something will be better, especially for young families, for those who do not have housing, for those who are weaker. In fact, the introduction of its own participation in the context of the acquisition of a non-profit rental contract is, of course, in the reverse context of the fundamental nature of such non-profit rentals and such non-profit dwellings, because it makes them impossible at the beginning. In fact, marriage must primarily cover those who are weakest. In fact, we will turn away those who have absolutely nothing; but perhaps those who have something will come to those who have something, but they will find it difficult to get an apartment. It is therefore necessary to reconsider such a way of resolving housing. The next question is renters in denationalised apartments. Slovenia is always entangled because it does not really know which is the fundamental, original constitutional principle of equality, where it is actually stuck and where to persist. Whether the right to buy is a constitutional principle that every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia was entitled at the time to purchase any housing from that fund. The law was adopted at the time and also implemented. Some have just acquired ownership apartments under very favourable conditions, and some citizens have been excluded from this. This is where it was made, in my opinion, a constitutional error. Housing should be offered to all citizens and then those who might not have dropped out would have kept a certain fund of these apartments available to those who cannot participate in this way. Even if one or more of these funds were to build more housing, the question of renters in denationalised apartments would not have arisen. As we have seen in this case, not all citizens were entitled to buy their apartments from the public fund. Therefore, these tenants are not entitled in denationalised apartments, nor are they entitled to an absolute right to redemption, but are found in these apartments. Now it is only a matter of what it is like for the state to help them solve these things. The task of the State is to provide them or to enable them to obtain housing rights or stay anywhere, not only in that apartment. If they make a deal with the owner for that rent, then there's no problem. If those who are in denationalised apartments, besides this house-owned rent or their own apartments, have an assured housing situation. And I see no reason to enforce all these mechanisms, pre-emptive rights, facilitation by the state, and I don't know what else. Absolutely not necessary. This, in fact, continues to predict and determine those who are just surprised to have a special right. I don't know on what basis. There's no basis here, it's a constitutionally controversial matter for me. So if we had this fund that we could build from the sale of the apartments then those who don't own a house or an apartment would offer the opportunity to rent an apartment in those apartments, and there would be no such complications; now they are. Now there are complications, we are doing damage, the fundamental right of the owner to have his apartments and at the second stop we give preferential positions to those who are in these apartments. Whether they have their own houses, one, two or three. It's not the right way to get rid of it. Because they then immediately produce, purely justified, the expectations of those who do not have anything and who are in the hiring relationship on the market, why the state does not help them. Why the state doesn't help them in a more appropriate way. These are the dilemmas that this law opens and I would end up with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'm a friend of Janc's. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today's debate on housing law shows that the issue is extremely complex. Obviously, the law was adopted at a high rate, and I think they are groundless, because the committee that was the parent committee for the treatment of this law, of course, adopted this law in a perfectly normal procedure. It is true that the topic under consideration was so difficult that the Committee had to consider this law in four further cases only in the second reading. About 200 amendments were tabled for the marriage. This suggests that other parties, in addition to parliamentary parties, including other interested groups, associations, organisations directly affected by this law, have been given the basis for the consideration of the law. Of course, we invited them to the meetings and there they could also participate in a fruitful and constructive manner. Today, I think it is too much to overestimate this law's nonconsistency in the third reading. It should be borne in mind that this law needs to be adopted, as a number of initiatives to assess constitutionality are being introduced on the existing housing law at this time as well. We have also rejected these initiatives on the basis of the adoption of the law, the housing law in due course, that is, before summer holidays. In my opinion, colleague Auschwitz has already very consistently defined the individual relationship between individual stakeholders. It is not possible to satisfy all groups with this law. There is no way through this law to eliminate the injustices that have occurred, all the injustices that have occurred and have occurred in the 50s. It is my opinion that this law must be adopted today, and that is why our parliamentary group is likely to fully support this law. And if the inconsistencies of individual provisions are to be demonstrated, I think it is also the responsibility of this Parliament to remove any undefined provisions by amending this law in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much, colleague Janc. Comrade Kremjar, would you like a word? Colleague Pavlinic Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Government Representative, Members and Members of Parliament! When I presented the views of the parliamentary groups, I sometimes felt like we were not talking about the same regulation as if we had not had the same changes in front of us. Undoubtedly, I think that when we all read this text, we can find that the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but following a ten-year period of monitoring of the situation in the context of the situation of non-profit, profit, social and other dwellings in our country, takes into account the fact that a large amount of these individuals alone owned by natural persons was obliged to respond to the moment which, in these ten years, showed some nonconsistence in this area. Unquestionably, I think that we can all together but find that the law is based on a modern principle, which is also present among the countries in which the community joins our country and wants to put these standards into our system as well. This is based on the principle that it is the concern of each individual to resolve the housing issue. However, it is very important that the state and the municipalities take care of groups of citizens who, without their help, could not resolve their social issue through the social adjustment system. These are the beneficiaries of renting a social or non-profit apartment. Even though we only introduce the concept of a non-profit apartment, we must not neglect that the social adjustment increases significantly compared to the percentage laid down by the previous law. Unquestionably, the amount of social assistance to an individual who is unable to pay non-profit rent increases to 80% of that amount. This is a promotion. We can't get past this. We cannot say that in this case we do not follow the principle of our country, this is to ensure a more socially fair system for those who cannot pay non-profit rent in this apartment. In this way, of course, the housing law on housing supply is a fully modern, appropriate, socially fair and internationally comparable way of summarizing the principle of enabling housing, as opposed to providing housing as it has been so far. We can also, of course, find that a number of innovations have been put into place in the legislative process of the new housing law, which, while maintaining the system principles of the 91 housing law, will introduce provisions to facilitate and rationalise the management of multi-housing houses, will support the interest of owners in renting housing or residential areas, will provide the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipal housing fund with a legal basis for all the activities to be carried out in accordance with and in relation to the implementation of the national housing programme and the municipal housing programmes, provide additional material incentives for negotiating between owners of denationalised apartments and previous holders of housing rights. "This is about additional material incentives" is the progress set out in the previous housing law. At least I personally regret that in this complex situation we are not fully capable of solving this problem. The problem is legally demanding, taking into account the fact that, in fact, it has not been established by the Constitutional Court that the correction of old injustices has caused new ones, the way in which the government proposes solutions is more favourable in terms of a percentage of incentives than in the previous law. So I would like to point out in my entirety that some things are better than they have been before. The Housing Fund - I have cases in my own office when, in the fact that a lot of apartments were purchased and are privately owned today, it is a realization that common parts in these buildings require maintenance, serious investment works, which of course do not represent small values, repairing roofs, joint installations, these are huge amounts. And the government's tendency here to propose the establishment of a fund and the possibility that people, knowing that when we contribute to this fund, make it easier to repair these joint facilities, lifts, roofs and so on, I think it is a realization that joint parts represent the responsibility of all of us who live in a multi-housing building to help individuals solve this problem. It's very difficult when things break down and you need to have a lot of money in your hand. This is one of the ways to reduce the allocation of monthly amounts, which I think under these provisions, which the law has, they cannot be abused by the use by operators of this money for any other purpose than for those for which they are collected. In this part, I think that the law is extremely precise, detailed and regulates the use of these funds until enforcement. Here, I don't think there should be any fear of abuse of an unjustified waste of these savings. So my personal assessment is that, however, we should not be a message from this room to all those who are high-level owners or tenants of residential units in our country, so that we can actually deprive them of what they might have in the past. If we read the law accurately, we can see that the law is socially just. In just one more part, where, I think, it has also been said that only those who already have some money under their thumb will be allowed to apply to bids for housing, and they will therefore be privileged by participation and by bail. If you remember, in the second reading, there was a debate at the time of the amendment, which was indisputably said - and today it is also embedded in the text - that those who publish calls for renting non-profit apartments can only set a security or deposit for 50% of the apartments signed, and for 50% of the apartments listed must take into account all these social categories, from young families and so on, which are clearly stated in the law. So I think that, with the adoption of this amendment with the legitimate warnings in the process, we have arranged for those who are able to participate to do so in 50%, taking into account the invitation to tender, to do so, and at the same time to provide care for the remaining 50% of the currently available non-profit housing fund. So that, however, the message from this place could be that, in terms of taking care of our citizens, we will also adopt an amended law. It is never the best, we will, of course, respond to the situation in this market with special sensitivity in the future. Personally, I believe that in the work that touches on the possibility of housing for young families and so on, taking into account the housing scheme, which is of great importance in the national programme, the government will probably in the future propose measures that will be available to young families, including taking into account the standards that are in the European Union today - for me personally these long-term mortgage loans - however, have also led the young family, by setting up their dwellings for a longer period of 20, 30 years to pay off this loan, can also peacefully with their initial salary, once the service has begun, obtain an apartment. So I personally support the law because it has more better solutions than older ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u33	[[A question from the bench.]] No, because she didn't mention you at the show. Yeah, that's gotta be taken into account. This must be taken into account. No, no, Comrade Sok. Look, I understand what you're trying to say, but she didn't put you up to this in her debate, and I'm sticking with it, and so are my colleagues who run as chairman of the National Assembly. So I have to stay consistent in my behavior. With this we have concluded a debate between Members and Members, now it has the opportunity to respond to the debate by the government, then we will conclude the debate on the whole and come to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Please, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much. This introductory debate has already shown the different views that remained on the table, after the law in Parliament was coordinated for two years and before all interested associations in Slovenia were involved in intensive conversations, including representatives of the House Chamber as well as representatives, such as owners or administrators, chambers of commerce, rental companies and, ultimately, all the municipalities in multiple debates and in various councils. What would I point to in this introductory debate, those key points that you mentioned as a possible dilemma or when some of the debaters came into their own conflict when you argued some things. First of all, the fact that the law actually improves the situation in all segments and eliminates those key shortcomings that were today. The question or dilemma may be largely or sufficiently and could be even better. Our view is that, within the framework of the possibility, this proposal is actually in real terms a compromise. The safety of tenants has been improved. Just because certain provisions are a little more precise and more detailed, I will say that they define their relationship and they put them there too, when the reasons for the resignation can be set. She also gave the owners, I will say, a few more options or a clear one, I will say positions, at the end of the day also because today is one of the key issues for the safety of owners in relation to tenants. If this security is also ensured for the owners of the apartments in the future, there will also be more leases and even more renters. It's a question of the wardens. The administrators have already been appointed by the old law and are functioning. Today, of course, we define their position more precisely in order not to exploit their supremacy, even more, an alternative exists. The resident community can be created as a legal person and in this case it is not necessary to have an administrator and certain inspection measures are, I would say, put in place. It's a reserve fund. The reserve fund didn't bring this law to a new one. The real law code passed it last year, since 1.1. This housing law only regulates the specificities in this area in more detail so that the matter can function. However, since this is not a socialist fiction, it is the United Nations recommendation in the document which recommends, I will say that this segment also for transition countries, it is explicitly written that one of the key problems is the collapse of the housing fund. As a recommendation of the United Nations, this measure has also been published on our websites and as such is being driven, not as a kind of extension of the future property tax. It is exclusively for the purpose of rebuilding the same facility, and these assets are owned by these tenants and this block and are no longer common, as was possible in some housing communities, municipalities and I do not know where else. In short, the difference in this business is essential to the one that was, of course, insinuated as possible. But when we talk about rents, of course, we come from the starting point of the Constitutional Court when, of course, it called for or warned about equality of citizens that, of course, there must be the same criteria for all tenants, and we also come from studies that we received at the Ministry of Height, that is 4.68 percent of the value of the apartment in order to maintain the housing fund. It probably doesn't make sense to hide from the eyes so that we can have a lower rent so that, of course, this housing fund will eventually fail. And second. We always forget to say that we have a new mechanism, an improved mechanism for subsidising the socially weak, which is essential, for those who are significantly better, while, of course, those who have been, or are tenants of various non-profit apartments, perhaps some in this Chamber, or quite in this room, will not be subsidized. But subsidised only those who are socially weak and should, of course, have adequate solutions in this part. Housing units are something we can't close our eyes on. Today we have certain groups that can't get to the apartment, or they don't want to be in the apartment. Of course, we want these groups to be as few as possible, but yet the roof over the head is in all systems, or in all countries, in all cities, it has to provide for that circle, not just the bums or any other group, but those that are, of course, to come at least under the most necessary cover. After this salary we are simply introducing this option, which is here, which is also in Slovenia before the law. It's about denationalized apartments. There were, of course, very different requirements. It was extreme that tenants wanted to buy these apartments after, in narration, according to the Law of Jasbinsk, regardless of the property, that they had already become owners of these apartments under the second denationalisation law, of course, others. And vice versa. The owners, as you have heard here, would, of course, like these tenants to be evicted or, of course, to pay a profit. More versions and variants were among them. What the law brings is that it maintains the political agreement already adopted in this House in the past on these issues, following the decisions of the Constitutional Court and ensuring that all tenants in these apartments continue to rent these dwellings in a non-profit manner under certain conditions, clear which they must meet, and that it further allows for the possibility of exit, or the resolution of this problem with various ransoms, this time in the final debates, which proved to be about a 19 per cent increase in financial stimulus when possible to move. Furthermore, it is possible for owners to rent favourable housing loans from the housing fund, and we also provide a new possibility that these tenants, if they are socially eligible, can apply for non-profit housing outside these established ones. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] In addition to the basic guarantees, certain additional outputs from such a crisis are also provided. [[..]] In short, in our view, just to conclude, I believe that we can remain on the proposal we have made at the outset to support the law, taking into account the amendments of the government to the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u35	Good. Madam Secretary of State Novak, with your debate, we have also actually concluded the debate on the bill as a whole. The National Assembly can now proceed to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments you have before you. These amendments are quite something, we will discuss them in the morning, and we will make decisions in the evening. We will first focus on Article 42, which has been tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Anybody want to talk about him? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. The law, as we have heard, introduces a reserve fund, but does not, in fact, define any conditions, how much this fund will form and, as we have already heard from the debate, leave everything to the law. In one of the discussions, the Minister mentioned that the funds of this reserve fund should be created between 2 and 3,000 tolls per unit. In view of the fact that the eligible housing units are about 170,000, this means a monthly fund between 350 and just over 500 million tolars. In short, there are also up to 5.6 billion tolars of annually raised funds on this item. I think that this contribution by the owners is extremely high, so we propose that these funds of the reserve fund be formed at about half a percent, which is about the same or the same percentage as that of the reserves. I think this amount, given the situation, is quite appropriate. For the second thing we are proposing, the reason is that we do not have a good quality business with us, but also that the operators are unlikely to work particularly well. In the event that a company that collects a lot of private funds for these purposes disappears on the business market, the funds of this reserve fund shall be lost in one way or another. And I think that this limit, which is proposed, is more than enough to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u37	The Government has also tabled an amendment to Article 42. You want a word? Please, Mr. Secretary of State - or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u38	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u39	Yes, it is, and you can comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u40	First of all, the key reason why the government does not support this amendment is that it is governed by a real-law code and is just in the process of adopting a rule of the Minister of Justice setting a certain amount of this. Just for an explanation. In this coordination, which is now under way, the proposal is: up to 10 years of zero, over 10 years of 1,700 tolars and then, I think 2,300 or something like that, in this size order, for dwellings over 30 years of age. This proposal, which the government proposes, limits the abuse that some of you have cited - that is, if there is a common reserve fund, that managers should not be able to act on the entire reserve fund in case of relocation or other legal remedies, but only on the share of the funds provided for each housing building.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u41	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u42	I'm still sure we don't need such a reserve fund. The Secretary of State also said that this was a recommendation to the countries in transition. However, we will become members of the European Union next year. Of course, you do not agree now that this has already been established, but in the second reading it was adopted by 0.5% because these lobbyists, who will manage it, are putting pressure on more. That's why you disagree. And you don't want to define here, because then you'll have a minister's hands free and he'll be able to determine the height of this fund himself. Thank you very much. We will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Comrade Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u44	The proposal why we are proposing a restriction is the one Mr Sok mentioned. In fact, I said earlier in the debate that the law was created in certain segments also under pressure from the lobby. In the event that this material is exempted from the law by the creation of the reserve fund in the manner currently envisaged, this means the actual establishment of the reserve fund solely by the size of the lobby or by the scale of the managers and not by the extent of the owners. It also makes sense that this formulation is transferred as a fixed provision to the law itself, and there is no need for these means to then correct these things by correcting the publications, conclusions or regulations at the wishes of those who manage them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor! However, in the course of the debate on this amendment, it is also worth listening to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which, of course, we must take into account and which points out some of the problems that we would have at the time of the adoption of such an amendment. If I recall the discussion from the second reading, the Minister also spoke about the amounts, and at least I personally understood them as those minimum amounts. If I recall correctly, these amounts were between 1,000 and 3,000 tolls per apartment age. Why do I think the rulebook will set minimum amounts? Since Article 41 of the Law makes it clear that the floor owners in the maintenance plan can also determine a higher amount of participation in this fund, it certainly takes into account the age of these common parts. If they see that the roof is just before it needs to be repaired, they will agree, in the next two years we will be participating in the fund to repair the roof monthly, I am thinking of a significantly higher amount than the Ministry will set out in the regulation. I understand the Fund as a well-intentioned aid to high-level owners to solve common cases. I think we should take it that way. Therefore, this amendment, including taking into account the views of the legislative and legal service, is somehow not going to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u47	My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I also wanted to draw attention to the fact that the situation in multiple houses in Slovenia is different and that if we enter one limit into the law, of course, there can be very serious problems in practice, which will not be solved if there is a need to even raise funds at a higher level than it is legal. It is therefore, of course, more appropriate to regulate this under the law and in what way the government has also explained it. In fact, it is a very controlled procedure, which adopts such a regulation, and I think it is much easier to adapt to the situation with the law than with the procedure applicable to the amendment of the law, especially when we are talking about the fact that there are still thousands of such multi-housing facilities in the territory of Slovenia. That is why these restrictions are too severe and would essentially change the law into a rule, which is probably not the purpose of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u49	A fellow Comedian. Did you sign up? No, no, no. My friend Tanko, you?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u50	Well, look, I think we already have enough of this practice and experience when the opinion of the legislative and legal service is taken into account extremely selectively. When something is right, when something is right, it's built in, and we're referring to it, the second time we're doing it a little bit. The other thing is that this somehow determines the operational incompetence of the owners of residential units. So far, it is likely that either the vast majority of the owners have taken very good care of their apartments, the ones who bought them, and the common assets. And I think those owners might be able to keep doing that. And I'm terribly surprised by this constant concern for the citizens, as if they themselves could do absolutely nothing. The next thing is a provision which has already been quoted and which allows owners to combine a higher amount. I think it is right to limit or set this threshold, that is to say, those mandatory assets, the mandatory reserve and thus, as a percentage, represent this amount, while everyone else, if they have interest, can increase and even increase substantially. This does not deny this item in any way, but merely determines the level of the mandatory reserve. Now the mandatory reserve is, I don't know, set at the request of the administrators, but the ministry will write it in a sub-law, in a regulation and then load it to the owners of the apartments. I think it's right for us to use this option and to put this limit in place. The other things are dealt with by the following consequential provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u51	Does anyone else want a word about Article 42 and the two amendments? If not, I will conclude the debate and move on to the debate on Article 87. The amendments of the SDS and NSI members are tabled here. The Government's amendment to the first amendment of the LDS MP and the ZLSD, SLS and DeDUS MPs and two amendments to the four coalition groups. I am opening the debate on Article 87 and the amendments tabled. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I think that Article 87 is one of the key elements for future tenants and tenants of housing because it sets out the criteria, when and under what conditions, to rent an apartment from public funds. In the course of the debate on the law, the question was first raised as to how to define the criteria in detail, so that those criteria would be sufficiently clear and that it would not be possible later to establish, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, that there was a general definition and that there were insufficient grounds for a more specific determination of those criteria in the relevant sub-legislative act. We have also tried, on the basis of many warnings from our parliamentary group, to try and define this with the Government. I am afraid that we may not have been sufficiently successful at this point, because the criteria in Article 87(6) are written but not quantifiable; more examples to be taken into account are listed but not quantifications. Therefore, I propose that we start this as soon as possible - even when preparing the rules - seriously think about not being hit here, because then there will be a problem in implementing the law; the calls will stand because there will be no such conditions. The second question has been whether or not it is possible to take part in this work all the time. I think it's important to say that we've had a bit of trouble here in the party or thinking about how to define ourselves. And when we thought about it, we found that, in our opinion, it was bad, but nevertheless, the law brought together social and non-profit housing - I say, in our opinion, it is bad, but it is - and it is here with its views in the coalition that we have failed - and then it is difficult to say that it goes within a very wide range of social situations of an individual - that it is at all to prohibit our own participation in a particular group. And we tried to make this group as small as possible, and we also ensured with the amendments in second reading that those original 30% were left with 50 and that this was just the maximum for each individual invitation to tender. Which means, if there is no participation in an individual invitation to tender, we hope, in the light of social circumstances, that the proportion of these apartments which will be awarded with their own participation, not more than 50, but generally less, can also be significantly less, depending on the decision taken in the municipalities. That is why we have made a special effort to complement paragraph 8, which is what the government supports. The amendment, which is the editorial amendment that the government is making in relation to the reference to paragraphs, I believe we must also support it. We wanted to make it clear that where participation is concerned, the criterion is exclusively social. It is not possible to prescribe one's own participation unless it fulfils a specific social censorship. However, it is right that, if it is met, something else is written in the criteria - what percentage of own participation can be at all at the value of an apartment, how many years at least it is necessary to account for this own participation, or can be guaranteed co-ownership through its own participation, and so on - yes, but the social criterion is the only one. The only condition is that someone can even be a participant in that circle where it's about their own participation. And we have seen that it is to say, two leaves - those that are determined on the basis of participation, and those that are not, because criteria would not interfere with each other, and that it would not really have been the case today, that own participation meant an absolute advantage for the allocation of housing. The third thing we have left here - we can't answer, but I think it's open - is the question of these housing units. There are specific provisions in the law, but they do not apply directly to Article 87, but the criteria are not prescribed and written. And there will be, I think, many more questions that will be open and unresolved. I therefore propose that we support the amendments that we have tabled together, together with the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u53	My friend Sok. I'm warning you on time. You have very little time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. We propose, together with the Social Democratic Party, that paragraph 8 of Article 87 be deleted. This is, of course, this paragraph, which falls under the criteria for obtaining a non-profit apartment. It's called flats with a non-profit rent. We are confident that this criterion will exclude from this game, if I may call it, those who are the most socially weak, and that in fact their own participation will become the only or the highest weight criterion in this housing acquisition. In this area, however, non-profit housing should, of course, be spent on socially weak families, then on families with multiple children, perhaps on families with disabilities. So these criteria should have priority, not their own participation. Do I have to stop?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u55	Yeah, you're running out of time. In its own opinion, the Group of Members took [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u56	It's the new rules of procedure. [[....]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u57	I suggest we be nicer to each other. The new Rules of Procedure were adopted by the required majority. The rules apply to everyone. Emissary groups take as much time as they want and use it wisely or not. You too have spent it entirely, and you too are governed by the rule that you cannot talk over it. My friend Runch has a word now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u58	Mr President, I accept Mr Sok's intentions. As many apartments as possible according to social criteria: disabled people, young families with low incomes and the like. But I would like to remind him that his proposal means something else. If we delete paragraph 8, there is still paragraph 6 which introduces and has its own participation. However, in paragraph 8, restrictions are placed on the fact that this own participation should not be prescribed for more than half of the individual invitation to tender and that, for the rest at least half, self-social criteria must be taken into account, say disabled persons, many children, young families, socially weak and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u59	Comrade Webber, did you pick up? Someone raised their hand. No, okay. Anybody else want to discuss this? My friend Tanko. A colleague of Krebs's stepped down after I beg your pardon, Comrade Tanko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u60	Well, look, I see that some of you have missed out on the law so far. You had the opportunity to resolve certain matters with amendments. We propose that this matter be deleted because paragraph 6 sets out any criteria for paying for own participation. They're a little different here. I do not think it is appropriate for social beneficiaries to pay for their own participation, because this is a social layer that we have to help. And I think it is totally inappropriate for a Slovenian media officer to find an article titled that social beneficiaries of non-profit housing are building new apartments. I think this is a completely wrong approach to those we want to help. On the other hand, this own participation is not defined and in this case it can also be set at between 30 and 40% of the value of the apartment, that is to say the amount of the deposit is to obtain a bank loan for the purchase of a new apartment or other apartment. I think the matter is completely depressed in this context. And, I don't know, it probably belongs to what section you guys remember.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u61	Colleague Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you a few questions. The real deletion of this eighth paragraph would be a step backwards. With great efforts, the coalition parties, in agreement with the government, wanted to clarify the word "maybe" in paragraph 8 below. Since the eighth paragraph, amended as proposed by the coalition parties, says: "The possible payment of own participation and the payment of the security may be prescribed by the lessee for a maximum of half of the dwellings which are the subject of an individual invitation to tender." If we delete this, as you suggest, it means that it can only be 3%. This is intention, this was desire, and here indeed, given the note you are following yourself, I would suggest that we support, however, the variant of the amendment, which is more refined in the third reading and follows this objective, for which I see from your explanations that you too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u63	My friend Webber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u64	The most effective housing policy is at the moment when you provide enough housing on the market. Of course, this is only possible with the right resources, and this is one of the sources that is not created because we would just like to write it in the law, but also in practice it happens that people come to those who build such apartments and speak and ask for it also in this direction: I also want to invest in this apartment, allow me to arrange the third, fourth construction phase myself, so that the apartment will be built as soon as possible. And of course, such a possible payment of its own participation will certainly accelerate housing construction, we will have more apartments on the market, we will also have the opportunity to resolve all these pressing needs or questions arising from where and how tomorrow, if you do not have your own apartment or at least rent. In addition, I would also like to point out that the national housing savings scheme is one of those mechanisms that makes it possible to save, but the amounts that people will save will not be so high that everyone will be able to buy an apartment or build a house, but will be able to co-finance a certain construction phase at a multi-housing facility. Therefore, I believe that this amendment also follows the national housing savings scheme, which is certainly one of the better measures to increase the housing fund in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u65	Anybody else want some? My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u66	I think we need a refill here. On a non-profit basis, all non-profit flats may be tendered for, but the beneficiaries are only those who meet certain conditions to meet certain conditions. Thus, all those who exceed a certain limit are not beneficiaries. And for those who come into this quota of eligible conditions, we now prescribe payment of our own participation, allow payments. I don't think this is a suitable category that can provide funding for the construction of a non-profit housing fund. Nonprofit housing institutions or, for example, municipalities are the ones to provide these funds. And it is totally inappropriate for us to demand this participation, we can ask people who already have certain problems in life, otherwise they would have profit homes or their own homes. And now it's precisely these people that we're saying that they're paying to find money, not in banks, because they're probably going to be hard to guarantee because they don't meet the conditions or the insurance problem, but they're going to go to the gray market. And that's where they're gonna take the money for the high monthly interest. And it's easy to force all these people to worsen these living and living conditions, not the living conditions. And this provision, I would say, is not socially oriented. It is not socially oriented and basically means that we are asking social beneficiaries to raise capital for the construction of new non-profit apartments. It's not a good diction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u67	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you. Once again, the amendment to paragraph 8 with each correct reading, unless someone wants to start pure demagogy, makes it impossible for them to pay their own participation to receive social housing. That's just not true. Go read the text. I agree, however, that those who receive social housing must not pay for their own participation. And that's what we did with the eighth paragraph. I would also agree with you that it is a big problem, whether it is right to pay for your own participation in non-profit apartments. I agree in this part, too. Just listen, we've left in the marriage so wide a circle of people in the same category that it's hard to tell where the limits of this social value will then come from, from which you will only get an apartment through market rent. We have a situation, I'd say, under-defined, and that's that weakness of marriage, because we're not things, I'd say, put a little bit more in drawers. This is now too large and we need to divide it into one part which will be social, which has no additional conditions, and this other part which is still pre-profit, because it will go to the market where it is possible to provide an additional part of the funds. Just please read the text again, and don't say things that aren't written. Those who receive a social housing or who are a social category may not and cannot pay their own participation with our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you. Can I? Please, Government Representative, Secretary of State Novak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u70	Own participation is not specific in Slovenia. Western European countries also have it. They're all in Austria, regardless of the social category. It is true, for example, that there are two forms: either at home or at the expense of increased rent, I will say, a share of this. And it's one of the sources of rescue. As for our proposal and solution, of course, I fully agree with the content, both Mr Ptræ's debater and Mrs Krebsova.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u71	Can we close the debate on Article 87 and the amendments tabled? Okay? Then we'll move to Article 90. I am putting to the debate the text of Article 90 and the Government's amendment to the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members to Article 90. Anybody want to talk? Please, buddy Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u72	I think it is right that this article should be reduced to two years from the age of five. In fact, I think it's unjustifiable that it can take such a long time for a non-profit status to be checked so rarely. It is a category, or means, that can be unduly provided by the municipalities or the community to someone who has improved his wealth during that time. I think two years is totally acceptable. The type of other corrections is used to, for example, account for annually, either documents or scholarships, or other matters, although they are not entirely comparable. However, there we ensure annual verification and annual fulfilment of conditions and set the height annually, and this is where we have set five years. I think it is right that at least every two years this thing is checked, although the tenant has the opportunity to ask earlier if things change.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u73	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The Government's amendments as a complement to the second paragraph would be adopted because they maintain the principle of five years and allow for the prior determination. We do not support the amendment "for two years" because, as previously said, it introduces red tape at some point and recalculations over and over again, especially since it is not aligned then with paragraph 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u75	Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u76	Here I should explain that this amendment of the government to the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members of Parliament retains a five-year term, with the possibility of an exceptional interim verification. In this case, we should only accept the amendment of the government and not the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u77	I think we can close the debate on Article 90. Just a minute! If we understand correctly, you said here at the table that you support the amendment to the amendment, while at the same time rejecting the SDS amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u78	Here I have to be clear that when the SDS Group wants to replace the words "every five years" with the words "every two years" - in short, we do not support the proposal "for two years" and then we remain "every five years" and then this amendment is as acceptable. Well, please, I think we can find a legal form. In short, we support, on condition of these five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u79	If you want to enforce your supplement, you must both be accepted, you cannot oppose the basic amendment. Please study this until the vote tonight. I am putting to the debate Article 103 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members, the amendment of the government to the amendment of the LDS Club of Parliament and the ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members of Parliament and the amendment of the four coalition groups of Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? I guess not. We will now move to 106th Article, which includes amendments from the ZLSD Group, two amendments from the SDS Group, an amendment from the government to the first amendment from the LDS Club and from the ZLS, SLS and DeSUS groups and two amendments from the four coalition groups. Anybody want a word? Please, buddy Run. Can you turn it off? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u80	It's okay, thanks. 106. Article is one of the issues on which it would be very difficult, I would say, to define ourselves as a black and white search for solutions, but I am afraid that part of this exists today. I agree that having an apartment provided to you by the congregation or anyone else also means some obligation that this apartment is relatively rationally occupied, not to mention that you are fulfilling obligations: rent, maintenance and all that. Therefore, I would say, it is not an unrealistic expectation that the owner must also be given the opportunity to ensure possible resettlement, but there are two issues. For the first time - under what conditions someone could be relocated, this was partly in Article 3 and where he could be moved. And in this part where he can be moved, it's, I'd say, a suitable place to live, and that's the question of this 106th article. I agree that, in our amendment, we have been able to try too hard to understand this appropriateness, precisely to protect the tenant, because we do not agree with these introductory explanations by the Secretary of State that the tenant is more protected under law. He's no longer protected. I say nothing about not being more easily protected because he was now too, but that he was more protected - not true, less protected, in our opinion, for knowledge is not protected. And here we've been trying to find solutions. However, the proposal made by colleagues of the Social Democratic Party suggests that, despite their commitment to social services - and mainly those in rental apartments are also largely unable to obtain commercial housing, or even less to obtain their own apartments - is made possible by this amendment of your move or by any means any idea and regardless of whether it fulfils the appropriateness of the apartment. See, you have deleted the most important thing from the present third paragraph, not only is the size of the apartment appropriate, but it is also appropriate under other criteria. In short, wherever you move it to a minimum square, it is acceptable for you. I don't think that's a good thing, and because you've deleted, that it must be inappropriate, or that it must also be comparable in other important circumstances of the previous apartment, I don't think it's a good solution, and we're not going to support this amendment of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u81	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Comrade Tanko, paragraph 106.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u82	Well, look, I've already warned you in the debate that this is a static matter. Thus, in cases such as those proposed in the law, it is impossible for the tenant to move to another suitable apartment. What is appropriate is specified and quoted under this law. With regard to important circumstances, this means, for example, that if someone from 100 meters away is relieved of access to school at 200 meters, this means a significant 100% increase in distance to the school and to the healthcare home. We cannot accept these criteria as a relevant criterion, as a true criterion. I think in this part you need to give a little bit more of this flexibility. This proposal of ours is going in this direction. In view of the fact that most of the rentals are nonprofitable or that they are the owners of the congregation’s dwellings or other public affairs, this case is unlikely to occur. However, in cases where, for example, the surrender of a private apartment, in this case, the matter would have to be defined as such. In the final stage, we could not, under certain criteria, guarantee this flexibility even for overcrowding and due to certain other conditions, and I think it is right that this matter should be regulated as envisaged in this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u83	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The apartment is also a home and a home and a home are specially protected under the European Social Charter. If the condition for resettlement is also due consideration of other appropriate circumstances, then this other circumstance and their appropriateness shall be assessed by the court. There will be a case-law, as it has been so far, which will evaluate the specific circumstances of suitability in terms of experience more or less. It can be a value as cartoonized as you say, but most likely not, but in a reasonable way. But if there are no other circumstances, then the court has nothing to value and then the only condition is the square of an apartment. This does not appear to us to be social or justifiable. We don't support what you're suggesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u85	May I conclude the debate on Article 106? Government representative, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u86	With regard to Article 106, it must be said that the government does not foresee, or propose, a mass resettlement or something like that in its basic proposal. This instrument refers only to appropriate cases where this option would, of course, be demonstrated and to the text, as the basic text is written, of course, subject to the relevant conditions. However, what the UK proposal explicitly states is that neither the surface nor the location, clearly nor the equipment, as well as the two new moments, should change, means that the dapa could not actually move any practically. This, this requirement, in our view, is also unacceptable to this extent, because then we cannot regulate such cases as were previously mentioned - the very person in a very large apartment, under all conditions that this is allowed only as a single [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] for justified reasons and so on. [[...]] That is why we are closer to the SDS proposal, which is listed here, although we believe that the basic text could also become what it remained for 106th Article. At the same time, I will explain our position on the fifth amendment to this Article 106. The government here supports the coalition proposal. However, as regards the adoption of the fourth paragraph in the second paragraph, of what we are talking about now, I must explicitly say that it supports it, provided either that the original text of the second paragraph remains or that the SDS proposal is adopted, not if the amendment of the United List to this amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u87	Please, mate Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u88	Look, Mr. Potts has slightly abused what we're proposing. I think that what he used, Article 10, is clearly written. He also talks about squares, but he also talks about some other things that concern the status of the apartment. We have not analysed our proposal as you said, but we have tried to get it into real frameworks and we have also tried to achieve certain flexibility in certain border situations. A specified possibility of moving the tenant into an appropriate apartment. If this option of moving into another suitable apartment is no longer available, it is not theoretically possible to take it out. In theory, but not in practice. And if we want this article to remain in order to ensure that these matters are regulated in this area, then I think it makes sense that our solution is also supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u89	I conclude the debate on Article 106. Then we'll move to 141. Here we have the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. There is no need for debate. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u90	This is one of the solutions that we have also presented in the general debate on behalf of the Group of Members. I think it is an important complement to the housing fund and an important initiative in the area of housing problems. I think they're getting rid of this big deal. First of all, the pressure on the order of the housing fund would be reduced, which would also, probably, reduce the rents, relieve the pressure on the building land, on the new buildings and focus more on rationalising the property we already have in this area. The category to be eligible for this is clearly set out in the amendment. However, I would like to point out once again that all those who would thus solve their housing problem would not then be justified and would not attack any other provisions in this law that concern, I don't know, like, a subsidy. In the same way, those who would have settled their own housing situation would not know, practically all the further period would have been excluded from these social transfers from the provision of social assistance or rent subsidies. And that's it, I think. In the long run, I am also looking at one of the important solutions in this law. And I suggest that this amendment also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u91	Okay. Let's move on to paragraph 173. The amendment was tabled here by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and the Group of Socialists and New Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss this article or the amendments tabled? Nobody? Please, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much. With the adoption of the Housing Act and the Denationalisation Act in 1991, the then Slovenian Parliament decided, by a majority, to return the apartments that had been taken from the previous owners with the tenants. I have already said that this was one of the solutions that we have only implemented in our practice, and nowhere else has this been established. It is true that she was confirmed in the Constitutional Court as possible. It is also true that tenants in denationalised apartments now have some European judicatures that show that this decision may not only have been so indisputable because the absolute advantage with the expected property has given the visa of existing housing rights - but it is formally so. Although it is difficult to say that this was accepted as a political agreement at the time. It was adopted as decisions are made, with a very narrow majority, but with the majority that was needed in the then Parliament and many, many of the concerns that have been raised against these solutions all these years. But that's the situation. I have already said, I have said, that the Ombudsman, including the European Commissioner for Human Rights, also notes here that this is a solution that has created a conflict situation between owners and tenants, with which neither owners nor tenants are satisfied. And neither one of them is worthy of it, nor is it to blame for the situation. The state created it with its own regulations. And we know and we don't want any way to make the position of owners worse, because they have this property. And now, in any way, putting it under question would mean a new nationalization, and we don't even think about it or suggest it. However, for owners and tenants it would be more favourable if this conflict situation were resolved in as many cases as possible. According to the warnings and information provided by the current housing law, he has already resolved it in 1,200 and several cases, perhaps 1,500; but, let's say, it's the order of size. At least so many or more cases would eventually remain to be resolved. In doing so, the government has warned us and provided us with information that possibly for 1,310 tenants, as much as it would require new schemes, it would take 5 and a half billion tolls if it were to go on a 5- to 8-year period. As it is estimated and as things have now been resolved, this would, according to the government, again be a little less than 700 and a little less than 100 million tolars a year. To accelerate or to facilitate this privatisation, we have foreseen an additional solution. The tenants in denationalised apartments informed us that, according to their assessment, the benefits granted to them were granted from the point of view of the difference between the point and the market value of the dwellings being considerable - from 25 to 30 % of the point value of the dwellings is comparable to the market value in Ljubljana. In a lot of smaller places, comparability is higher, except where even point value could be greater than market value, but in larger places, especially in Ljubljana, Primorska and where market value is much higher than this point value. [[...]] And because the benefits of legislation, which is solely related to point value, are for, say, Ljubljana, the real coverage of the apartment approx. 25 to 30%. Everything else these tenants need to provide for ourselves seems to be too small and we have therefore foreseen that the remaining solutions, such as, but not less than 70% of the market price, should remain. That's, we know, about 100% of the funds over there, about. No one can calculate it to a milligrams, but it's more. We know this isn't easy to ensure. We know. However, we also know that more intensively these problems should be addressed sooner than before, because they are constantly present, scalding and appear before European forums and it would not be good if we did not solve them. Finally, let us say this; it is true to talk about the extent of the funds, but look, the Slovenian compensation company, which has this obligation, has told us itself that the total liabilities have almost 300 billion, many uncovered, and we would increase it by about 3 to 5 billion. It's not right, but it's a series of sizes. For 1%, but to solve a very serious problem. We think it's worth a try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u93	Comrade Tanko! Did you want to?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u94	These provisions of the law relate to the situation caused by the State after 1945 and this conflict has only put the tenant and the new owner, or the one that received the loan back. I do not think this solution is appropriate and the country should take an active role in this area and all that it has imposed on many owners, those who have received this return, should be compensated in one way or another. I don't think this thing is properly solved in this regard. And, Mr Potz, the correction of injustices does not start with 1991, but we should start solving this area also with 1945. It is said that these original rights, which they had on this property at the time, would have been returned or compensated in a manner that would have been part of this work. On the other hand, what kind of encourages me is that you have double criteria: on the one hand, you are proposing for these exceptional reliefs in solving the housing problem and on the other hand, for those who have problems, you are proposing your own participation, it is said, in the social fund, in those who are applying for non-profit housing for social reasons. I think that setting this disproportion does not belong to this law or it needs to be resolved in a different way; but to define things where necessary, as a self-participation - and in this case this could be done - and where it is not necessary, I think that these things would be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u95	The minister wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The amendment proposed by the United Nations Group is unacceptable for three reasons. Firstly, it is not only some 1% of the obligation of the Slovenian compensation company, but it is 5 billion, in our opinion. Mr Potč says, from 3 to 5, we believe that this is closer to 5, because we believe that this is a potential obligation between 12 and 20 billion, with 7 billion countries already taking over - this now means at least 5 more, and maybe 13 more, although I think this is an absolute overestimation; we are talking about very large numbers. Secondly, this amendment is unacceptable because, contrary to the opinion or the proposaler's wish, it is in fact an opportunity to interpret which would make the position of tenants worse in denationalised apartments worse. This amendment refers to the average market value of such apartments on the market; occupied denationalised apartments are also sold; their average market value is 30% of the actual market value. If you thought 70% of 30%, of course, that means a lot less than they're getting now. And for the third time, this amendment is unacceptable because it introduces - if it is interpreted as the proposalr wishes - a new obligation which is not shared among the Slovenian development company, loans from the housing fund and obligations in the form of bonds and in the form of cash from the Slovenian compensation company. This would make this provision impossible, inoperable, and then the tenants would have none of it. That is why, of course, we oppose this amendment. Once again, I would like to point out that as far as tenants are concerned, they have a permanent lease, they have access to social housing to meet these criteria, we have increased financial incentives to resolve this conflict with owners of denationalised apartments, and we have fully transferred this financial obligation from municipalities to the country at second reading, on the proposal of the United Kingdom. We then took over 3 billion and a half, but now they're proposing at least another 5 billion. We are, of course, opposed to all of this, and we believe that it is best to keep the text the way it is, and that this amendment would, of course, only cause confusion, which would not be in favour of the tenants of denationalised dwellings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u97	Good. My friend Run. Time warning [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We understand everything from the government, although not everything is true, but at the very least it is true to make things worse. That's not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Can we conclude the debate on 173rd Article and go to the last, 196th Article, where we have an amendment of the government to the amendment of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and the amendment of this Group of Members? There's no desire to discuss it. I conclude the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, just minutes before the expected end of this debate on today's 7th, today's 1st item of the agenda, we have concluded the debate on the amendments and the bill will be voted on in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes. I'm breaking this agenda. I announce the 8th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the bill on the Triglav National Park. This debate will begin in good seven minutes, at 12 noon and 50 minutes. The debate will be a long three-and-a-half hours. By the beginning, by 12:00 and 50 minutes, I am adjourning today's debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u100	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving to 8. It's the first time a bill on the Tribal People's Park has been tabled. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Dusan Vukko, the first to be signed. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members with the first-signed Dusan Vukko requested that the national assembly hold a general debate. Here you are, Mr. Jože, for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the consideration of this item on the agenda, the law on the Triglav National Park states that, following the inclusion on the agenda of this item, there were substantial new developments with the outcome of the referendum in the municipality of Bohinj, which were not known at the time when the Members applied for the debate. These new developments have also taken place after the College decided on the duration of the debate, as we all know that people have plebiscitefully rejected the proposed solutions in the law proposed by Member Vukko of the LDS Group. I have also entrusted myself with the proposal of the law somehow, I have not been aware of the bad intentions of this law, and I have not applied, as well as many other Members, but with the emergence of new moments, I think we need to take this matter seriously. People have expressed a clear distrust of the ruling policy in this area, including the LDS. I would like to redefine the duration of the consideration of this point, where, after this has been concluded, there have been significant new developments. We need to trust people, people have made it clear that they are afraid that they are hiding their intentions in this law, in order to capture some very important attractive sites in this Triglav National Park. Such a request or such a decision on the basis of a referendum - we must have the opportunity of all Members to debate, because we did not know for these hidden purposes of this law at the time of our agenda. Therefore, I ask you to redefine the time and opportunity for Members who did not participate at the time of the submission of these applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you for this proposal and for your opinion. Personally, I think that three and a half hours of debate is extremely much for this general debate and because I also know or have been suggested that today we do not even conclude this debate, but even - when it is given, we will say so - continue at one of the future meetings. However, we have three hours and thirty minutes available for the debate, which is planned at the meeting and I do not know what else to do with this time, because we cannot change the agenda and order of agenda items. That's how we're going to start with the debate. Your proposal will be taken into account accordingly. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u103	If I understood you correctly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u104	Just to complement yours [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u105	Yeah. It then means that all Members who have not been notified, if they wish to report to the debate, will normally be able to discuss within the limits provided for by the Rules of Procedure for one Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u106	Once again, if the time is left today, and the second time, if the proposal is adopted, as it will be presented and before it, you will have the opportunity to say your opinion again in this sense, for example, in the September session. Because the debate today would not be closed. Such a procedural proposal has already been given to me in the knowledge that it will be presented at the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u107	Therefore, it is better to postpone this point so that all the hidden purposes of this law are made clear to the public and that when there is more knowledge and clarity in the public. I propose that these points be put off today. I have a right under an article, I don't know which one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u108	You put it in writing. At this point, I have no chance of being able to verify this to the National Assembly due to the presence of [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u109	This is a procedural proposal that needs to be decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u110	Comrade Jerovšek! Such a procedural proposal should be approved [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u111	Yeah, sure. And so there are procedural proposals and put it in confirmation, call the spoils and put it in confirmation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u112	Procedurally, colleague Miran Potch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u113	Mr. Chairman! To make it clear. I would like to inform Mr Jerovšk and everyone else that the United List of Social Democrats - such a proposal, Mr Jerovšek, can only give a parliamentary group, not an individual - has the proposal that, after a debate on behalf of the groups of Members today, the debate and decision on this law be suspended and postponed to one of the next meetings, if possible, and if they are prepared in September, so that the things that I will talk about can then be clarified. So this proposal that we will know what exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u114	That's it. Thank you very much for these explanations, and yet we will begin with the agenda item. I give the floor to the first-signed candidate, Mr Dusan Wolf. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you, President, for your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u116	You have 25 minutes after your announcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u117	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Honourable Colleagues and Fellows! Allow me to present the following key solutions to the proposal for the Triglav National Park Act and to respond to certain indications and criticisms that are emerging in this law. With a view to maintaining natural values, in 1981 the former Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on the Triglav National Park, which gave the area of the central part of the Julian Alps the status of the National Park. According to our assessment, the basic features of the current law are the following. Firstly, the protection of this area is ensured only on the principle of prohibition and restrictions. Secondly, that the law underemphasizes the development that is supposed to be in line with natural duties and values. Thirdly, the law does not contain appropriate economic measures and programmes to compensate for the limitation of property rights in the protected area and to ensure economic activity in those areas. Fourthly, that the border of the central area of the national park no longer meets all the criteria of the International Organisation for the Protection of Nature. All these shortcomings of the law have in the past led to conflicts between the local population and local communities on the one hand and the administration of the national park or, if you like, the country on the other. The conflicts were particularly pronounced in those areas of the municipalities within the TNP area, which are highly tourist-oriented. There are therefore more reasons for amending the existing law, and this conclusion is also agreed by those who, at this point in time, strongly but without the right arguments, oppose our proposal. What's the purpose of the law anyway? The basic purpose of the law is to establish such protective regimes that will protect, preserve, preserve, preserve and preserve biodiversity and landscape diversity in the area. It is equivalent to another purpose, and this is to set such development guidelines that will not significantly jeopardise these natural values. And thirdly - this is irrelevant - to allow by law those development opportunities of the population and to set such guidelines and measures that will promote development, taking into account the principle of sustainable development. If I simplify this bill, we therefore want the proposers to achieve that this law will preserve its original purpose and become more viable. So much for the purposes and purposes of the law. However, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members and colleagues, in view of the great media response that the draft law has recently received, of our view of the apparent effects of the various environmental protection organisations, associations, ad hoc committees and individuals that have been set up on this proposal. From these answers, if you listen, you will be able to understand that the criticism expressed in some cases has been justified, in some cases unfounded, because it referred to the old text of the bill, in some cases it has been given just as easily, without arguments, and that many times criticism stems from non-compliance with other system legislation in the Republic of Slovenia and is expected to solve a number of problems and questions falling within the competence of other laws. Let me mention only some: the law on the regulation of premises, the law on the construction of buildings, the law on water, the law on the protection of cultural heritage. First, he also explained to his colleague Jerovšk in this regard about the proposal to amend the external border of the park and the associated local referendum. With the proposal for a law, we proposed a change of the external border in the Bohinj area in order to remove the settlements of Stara Fužina, Studor and Ribčev Laz from the park area. Many people today wonder what our proposal was based on. In particular, our decision was influenced by the following: permanent conflicts in this area, bureaucratic behaviour of the public institution in decision-making in administrative procedures, informal demands of the population, in particular in Stara Fužina and Ribčev Lazu, the position of the local community in the past, the position of the forum organised at the initiative of the municipality of Bohinj, and the fact that these are relatively large settlements, which are highly tourist-oriented, in particular the village of Ribčev Laz, and in which I believe there is no specific need to limit the protection of nature. And if we look at the last argument that led us, the fact that we have found in the review of the system of comparison in Western Europe, especially in the Alps, and in particular the area of the Bergesgarden National Park in Bavaria, that such settlements are not in the parks. When we made a public presentation of the bill in Stara Fužina on 31.3., a relatively large part of the countries expressed doubts as to the meaning of such a solution. However, on the basis of this proposal, we were unable to determine the majority will of the inhabitants of these settlements. Since we did not intend to change the boundaries of the park in this area beyond the wishes of the inhabitants of Bohinj, in order to determine the majority will of the inhabitants of these settlements, we proposed that a consultative referendum for the settlement area of Stara Fužina, Studor and Ribčev Laz should be held in preparation for the preparation of the opinion of the Municipal Council. The municipal council accepted our proposal and called for a consultative referendum on 15 June. At the referendum, the inhabitants of these settlements decided unequivocally and clearly that the area should not be excluded from the park. We are pleased to see that participation in the referendum was high, on average around 65 per cent, and that the result was achieved by a large majority of the votes defined - somewhere 79.4 on average of all three settlements. This was the outcome that we expected, since, following a public presentation in Stara Fužina, a petition was addressed to the proponents' address, in which the inhabitants requested that the external borders of Triglav National Park be maintained, while at the same time demanding something in this petition, in order to take such protective measures in the park that will provide the host with sustainable development, and yet another requirement that the non-life ban be lifted now in force. This purpose and this objective were also followed by a proposal for a law that we have drafted by the proposers. Taking into account only the content of the petition and the referendum question, which asked the inhabitants only whether a settlement should be excluded from the park, we must not be allowed and should not be interpreted in this way, although some are already doing so to oppose the proposal of the Triglav National Park Act. On the contrary, according to the people's statements, I can safely argue that the outcome of the referendum also means confirmation to the applicants that we have created the right concept and that the draft law has succeeded in developing such development guidelines and measures and in softening the protection regimes in which the people now see their purpose, advantage and opportunity, and on the basis of these facts they have changed the negative opinion on the park they have shown in the past. Any other interpretation of the referendum, in my opinion, means in some way an abuse of the will of the inhabitants in this area. Before this meeting, we commit ourselves to taking further account of the wishes of the people expressed in the referendum, and in this regard also to correct the provision setting out the external border of the park. With regard to the preliminary activities carried out with regard to the proposal for a law, let me say that, in accordance with the nature conservation law, we have informed the local population, the public, of the proposed amendment to the TNP law, which took place in the area of municipalities forming the Triglav National Park and at public presentations in local communities in the area of the national park. In addition, a copy of the comments and proposals was provided at the time of the public disclosure and the public presentation. Until the comments and proposals received, we have identified them and, in part or in full, we have taken them into account in the new text of the bill or we have rejected the comments. The documents I mention are attached and forwarded to the relevant services of the National Assembly. I would like to point out that, in preparing the new text of the bill, we have taken into account a number of comments and proposals submitted to us by the Section Council of the Public Institute of Triglav National Park, Organisation and Society in the field of nature conservation and the rest of the interested public, local communities, citizens and also the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, let me mention that we have made some very thorough coordination with the public institute of Triglav National Park and that we have been in contact with them all the time, but unfortunately, and probably not publicly so well to the detriment of this law as well. We have also coordinated the text of the bill with the Committee on Environmental Protection in the Tourism Union of Slovenia, the competent Ministry of Environment and Space, the government service responsible for regional development or the Minister without a portfolio. We also took part in the GLOBE meeting, where we have faced comments from some environmental NGOs and the obvious, of course, that have their weight. As far as environmental organisations and associations are concerned, I regret, on behalf of the applicants, that some, in particular, would have highlighted the initiative committee for the conservation of the Triglav National Park, despite the fact that we have always been prepared to discuss concrete comments and solutions to it, we would rather have the media release of unfounded, principled or largely unfounded criticisms of speeches. They opted for a media coup, foreign capital will build the banks of the lake, the sale of Bohinj and so on, against which we cannot fight, against lies, but only with arguments. When we adopted our views on the comments, we, of course, replaced the proposal on the Triglav National Park, which we submitted to the National Assembly on 17.1.2003. In the course of its discussion, I would like to devote more time to responding to the criticisms and observations of the associations, associations, ad hoc initiative committees and individuals, and in the context of the content. 1. The new text of the law clearly follows the international guidelines of the nature conservation organisation. The central area is narrowed down because international criteria suggest that the central area cannot be inhabited. Within the central area, sub-areas are being established with a new law on which, due to the traditional use of space, agriculture, forestry and grazing, a slightly milder protection regime allows for these activities to be carried out. In doing so, I would like to point out that, for the border of the central area and sub-areas, we have taken stock of the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the proponents, which was prepared together with the Public Institute of Triglav National Park and the Institute of Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This information clearly proves that the evidence of non-compliance with international criteria in border setting does not hold. The bill also contains the protection of landscape characteristics as protection of part of the cultural landscape and is implemented in accordance with the rules on the protection of cultural heritage. We have introduced new provisions on the observations and proposals of these organisations that are trying to define more clearly the importance of protecting this cultural landscape. Thus, the law provides for guidelines, starting points and conditions relating to the protection of the building’s heritage to be laid down in spatial acts prepared for the entire park area. The law does not in any way restrict the implementation of cultural heritage protection, since the Cultural Heritage Protection Act contains a number of provisions allowing competent institutions, in particular the Ministry of Culture and the Administrations for the Conservation of Cultural Heritage, to regulate individual parts of the settlements. Otherwise, these provisions of the law build on the law on the protection of cultural heritage and the law on the regulation of space. The protection of the building’s heritage will be carried out in accordance with the spatial order of the municipalities, where these criteria must be clearly and unequivocally recorded. This marriage is not a place where these problems will be solved. The third observation that the bill is aimed at promoting uncontrolled construction. The bill does not aim at promoting uncontrolled construction and mass consumer tourism, since in the central area, including the coast of Lake Bohinj, it prohibits any new construction of buildings, residential, tourist and holiday facilities, except those mentioned during the exceptions. So, the lake's coastline is powerless, and we're not building it with hotels, as it was obvious. In addition, the construction of such facilities on the shore of the lake is also prohibited by the water regulations that those who see this should know, since this law provides for land-based interventions to be prohibited. In all of this, it is interesting that environmental organisations do not oppose the land fence to the shores of Lake Bohinj and the pressure of watchdogs on visitors. It is also prohibited to build holiday houses and holiday apartments in the free and central area and to change the purpose of agricultural facilities for these purposes, as has been the case many times. In doing so, I must point out that the provisions of the law cannot be written in such a way as to prevent any abuse of the law, of black construction, as well as to prohibit and punish it - there is no provision that would further prohibit it. If people and individuals violate these provisions, the issue must be put in a different place, not in this law - the competence of inspections, the effectiveness of inspections and so on. We are working to protect the National Park from noise and motor traffic and other pressures on precious nature. The law allows the competent authorities, in agreement with the park manager, to lay down specific traffic arrangements in relation to individual sections of the road, by which access to certain areas is restricted. According to our assessment, a visit to the park cannot develop according to the legality of carism, that is, allowing the driver to drive almost to the door, but according to the legalities of the environment-adjusted traffic. The regulated public parking spaces on the outskirts of the park are supposed to stop and accept the standing traffic of the visitors, and transport from there is supposed to be an alternative. The bill limits overflights. All of them. Also a plane tow a sailplane over the entire national park above a certain height or 3,350 meters. The need for better regulation of air traffic has been demonstrated as the noise caused by aircraft, in particular Aerotaxi, panoramic and sports flights and helicopter transport is unacceptable from the point of view of the objectives and objectives of the protected area. I would like to point out that the prohibition here does not cover the provision of mountain huts, armies, protection and rescue and other services such as geodetic painting, possible film, documentary recordings and so on. Military exercises in the central area of the national park are not allowed. However, only military training in alpinism is allowed in certain places and under the conditions laid down in the management plan. Nor will the bill, as we have seen, worsen the quality of drinking water and other water in the national park, as we have preserved the protection regime of the current law, which provides that plant protection products are prohibited outside the processing area. In addition, drinking water protection is regulated, I reiterate, by water regulations. , as it is specified that the watercourses or groundwaters used for the collection or public supply of drinking water shall be identified against pollution and other types of loading. However, in order to protect these water protection areas, a water protection regime shall be laid down which may be more stringent in accordance with special legislation than in this law. Therefore, the fear that this proposal creates the quality of drinking water in the area does not, of course, hold if the competent authorities act in the second law as envisaged. The most important elements of the new bill are: the change in the park border in line with international guidelines for national parks, and once again I stress that the external border of the park will not change and the will of the inhabitants will be fully taken into account. Another important element of the new bill is the introduction of development incentives, which also led people to a referendum decision as it was. Citizens and businesses from the park and local communities are entitled to incentives and co-financing of projects, with the law allowing them priority rights. The concept, as set out in the law, exploits the structural policy measures already put in place in this country by providing incentives and co-financing for projects in the field of tourism, agriculture and the economy, in the field of transport and cultural heritage, once again stressing that citizens and companies from the park area have an advantage in providing incentives and co-financing for projects. In the park area, households have priority in carrying out activities related to the management of the park. We are talking about contracts on the custodianship of natural values, regulation and implementation of the review of natural values. An important element of the new law is the restrictions on the protection regime in parts where it has proved to be too rigid and non-lifelike in the past and the tightening up where it is necessary to protect natural values and preserve biodiversity and landscape diversity. The law provides for a greater role of municipalities in the management of the park, regional spatial development design, and the impact of local communities on the management plan. I've already mentioned the restrictions on traffic in the park. We do not hide the fact that the proposal for a law contains some other solutions that, in some cases, cause concern or even fear of an over-liberal approach, in determining the protection regime, in particular in the central area and in the total degradation of the park area, sales, constructions, etc., and that it contains some other solutions in which there is a certain doubt from a professional point of view, or whether the individual profession is not uniform, the question - if I raise - of the sanitary shooting of the game. In view of the last letter from the TNP Public Service Professional Council, which has also been received by Members on the bench today or through yesterday, it is the following open questions. Sanitary discharge will be a painful wild game, the park manager advocates a mechanism of natural self-regulation, and at the proposal of the Hunting Union of Slovenia and the professions of hunting from the biotechnological Faculty of Hunting in the Central Area we allowed only when hunting is necessary to regulate its numbers in order to prevent the occurrence and spread of infectious diseases of game. The occurrence of infectious and infectious diseases, the confirmations of the latter, is always causally linked to the number of individual acts. However, the sanitary disposal of affected game cannot be allowed on average, and the law provides that the areas are to be determined in a management plan on the proposal of the Minister responsible for hunting, so that the profession or hunting association or hunting families, through the Ministry in cooperation with the park manager, may decide on the most appropriate areas for shooting. The next open dilemma to be established is the permissibility of fishing in the central area. We fully agree with the park manager that the provision should be written down more clearly or deleted. At the proposal of the competent fisheries institution, we wanted to prevent only sport fishing. For the end, just one more sentence, if you don't mind. We will endeavour to coordinate our views and develop provisions in the future with the competent and professional competent institutions, in particular the TNP Professional Council, in order to eliminate the content of most of the existing doubts and to strengthen the protective content of the bill. I think that these open dilemmas will be addressed as little as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much for this presentation. I now give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Janez Kopach, as a representative of the government at today's meeting. I say hello to him and his associates.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The government has been working on its programme for 2001 as well as for 2002 already listed the draft law on Triglav National Park, but unfortunately the relevant text writers have been doing things for too long and we have been sent a bill, but that does not bother us. We believe that all conflicts in the past in the Triglav National Park area have in fact called for this law to be changed and that is what the government intended. The draft law, as incorporated into the procedure before this new text, followed by public hearings, was examined and supported by the Government. Although she had some specific comments in the amendment form. However, all these comments were also taken into account in this new text, as I have noted. However, this new text adds some other solutions to which the government has not yet defined itself, and I have to say just to think that it would suggest that some solutions or solutions should be explored, suggesting that regular fishing and fishing may be allowed in the central area of the park. I must say this, it would not be in line with the criteria of the World Conservation Union, which operates within the United Nations and sets the criteria for what the National Park is. However, this is a matter of discussion of two articles. I think that, after all, the applicant's opening statement has shown that the applicants are ready to talk and that possible inconsistencies in the bill can be resolved by an amendment which, if necessary, will be willingly tabled by the government. In other words, the criteria of the World Conservation Union speak of the fact that economic activities are not to be allowed in a narrower area of the national park or that the law of nature is to be ensured in such areas with as little human influence as possible. That is why every settlement in a narrow area is always a potential conflict and the government has also supported the proposal of the proposers, who have foreseen the exclusion of these three settlements, as the people themselves have said in the referendum. This follows, of course, that the applicant will respect their will and the government agrees. But I must say, in the past, there have been conflicts and they called for a resolution. This has now taken place with this referendum and this conflict has been fuelled by a very traditional regime in a narrow area, and the fact is that part of the conflict has led to the rights of the Triglav National Park, which has been unable to draw up a management plan for years to come. But that's how it happens, I can say, even a little improvisation from day to day, which, of course, irritates many people. This is a sin, I can say, even a country that we will try to fix in the future. However, I certainly believe that this bill is a step forward in resolving these conflicts. And once again, the government has not yet specifically defined the text that has been tabled. Of course it will. It will also propose certain amendments, which I have already announced here, if they are not tabled or placed on their own. Otherwise, we support the adoption of a new law, which I hope will be reached with as much consensus as possible, taking into account the government's views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With this we had a presentation and a government opinion. I now give the floor to the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Aloise Sok to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. However, I would like to point out in Article 122 that we are talking about the objectives, the purpose, the basic orientations of the law, not the concrete solutions in the individual articles, so that we do not go too far into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your warning, Mr. Chairman. However, when we present the views of the parliamentary groups, we simply cannot pass through some facts. The first is an interesting fact, which Mr Minister Kopač said before me - which I very much welcome - that the government had prepared a proposal, but that part of the members of the four parties in Parliament had rushed ahead and tabled their proposal. That's actually an interesting conclusion, isn't it? I would still believe that if the opposition had put it, but that the ruling coalition was ahead of its own government, that's really interesting and of course we're thinking about it. If I go to the very presentation of the law given by my fellow Member Vukko, he basically said that the purpose of the proposalr is good, the law is excellent, only the people of Bohinj, but those who went to the referendum on Sunday do not understand what great advantages this law brings them, and they simply decided to the referendum with a great majority against. So, I would say that you probably couldn't convince them, too, because maybe they remembered the events that had recently followed in this House - and I remembered myself when the ruling coalition here rejected the amendment of the agricultural land law and thus created some period of lawlessness, some period of which is spoken of - I don't know, but it is said - that certain individuals have taken advantage of it and picked up certain agricultural land. I wonder if this may not have happened in the case of the Triglav National Park; I don't know, I don't have the data, but that's how we can think out loud in the opposition. And that this law or rejection of the amendment to the Law on Agricultural Lands was a prelude to another act that followed now that another moment had taken place. However, the fact is that it is not only against this law that there are certain local 'threaters', if I have correctly understood the proposer, but that there is also a professional eminent public against this law. So, against this law - well, if I go like this - the expert council of the Triglav National Park, and they could, for example, show that they have taken action against this for a certain purpose, but against the world of environmental protection of the Republic of Slovenia, with which, as you said, you have participated in the drafting of this law. Then there is a large group of civilians here, I don't know how many of these signatures have been handed over to the President of the National Assembly today, and, last but not least, it is against such an eminent institution as the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. The arguments addressed to the Slovenian public in the framework of the SAZU do, of course, hold back, point out that this is the only national park. That we have in Slovenia, as regards national parks, a total of 4% of the surface area, if we add up to this landscape and regional parks, we only get up to 8%, while the average in the European Union is around 18%. They point out that Triglav with the park is a natural and cultural value and that while there is growing awareness among citizens of the uniqueness of this national monument, on the other hand, there is an increasing tendency for some acquisition of this park and, of course, also after the threat of the Triglav National Park. They also reject the argument that the park with the current regime hampers the development of agriculture and tourism and prove that this is not the case. They state - which is fair - that the state has helped to modernise the Vogel cableway, to regulate the sewerage at Lake Bohinj, to restore the towering roofs in Studor, to support farmers with monetary compensation and compensation, because landowners are affected by the reduction of production, and the state is somehow sanctioning all of this through state support and finance and with various agricultural, environmental programmes; therefore, at the time of the current application of this law, which was adopted in 1981. They point out that the current quality of the park would be significantly affected by the use of the park space with new buildings, along with infrastructure and new activities. Such interventions in this place would permanently evaluate one of the most precious parts of Slovenian nature, as well as cultural heritage. But the cultural heritage itself is not really a speech in this proposal that we have before us today. According to the 1981 law, the Triglav National Park has been appointed the administration, which has been associated with the relevant European associations for years, has gained many experiences, and here in the preparation of this law this administration has, in fact, been somehow excluded or their comments have not been taken into account. Also in the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, they point out that in the preparation of such a law, European standards for national parks should be followed in particular because, in this case, the people of the Triglav National Park would be entitled to a variety of European development incentives from the various cohesion funds of the European Union, which, of course, could happen in this case in reverse, so that they would not be justified. They point out that the shrinking of the area, the construction and other construction and the deterioration of the protection of the central part of the park could also significantly reduce the possibility of using these funds from the European Structural Funds. The SAZU also points out that the liberalisation of the regime in principle is allowed anything that is not prohibited is not real, but that it should be approached in a different way, by allowing only what is explicitly written. Due to the particular importance of the Triglav National Park in the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, it is recalled that such solutions must be taken into account with extreme consideration, that a broader debate should be conducted and that all the knowledge that has been achieved in such legislation of the European Union must be taken into account. Their main point, therefore, is that this law, which was submitted by the four MPs of the National Assembly, does not take due account of the protection of nature, but rather, I would say, in this regard, that it accelerates investment and that it wishes to introduce to some extent what is prohibited in the park by the current law. Various experts in this area also pointed out that, at the time we are actively approaching the European Union, Slovenia should not, in fact, distance itself from the principles already adopted in this area, and the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, which was already in Perth in Australia in 1956, has set criteria for the National Park and has also prepared guidelines on long-term development for our only park in 1994. And, of course, these guidelines would need to be taken into account in the drafting of this law. They also point out that we are also bound by the Alpine Convention of the International Commission for the Protection of the Alps and that this should also be explicitly taken into account in the drafting of such a law, as well as a document entitled Natura 2000. All these comments, however, show that all these guidelines were not taken into account in the drafting of this law and that the title of this law should be different, namely, the title of the law should read: the Law on the Promotion of Investments, where this is prohibited. So if this law were to bear such an address, then it would follow this purpose, which was also presented here by Member Vukko. As far as the individual articles of this law are concerned, when we read these articles so quickly, everything seems to be in order. If you look at Article 8, then Article 9, you talk about that the park can't have this and that, but then of course there are different pitfalls in the law itself. Perhaps I would draw attention to Article 14, which, in the second paragraph, says that the regional spatial development design is adopted in accordance with the rules on spatial regulation, with representatives of the national park manager participating in the programming board coordinating the preparation of the regional spatial plan. The point is that, of course, the regional design is prepared and adopted by the municipalities, and since it is for 6 municipalities here, something quickly could happen to get 6 different regional developments, 6 different policies in this area, which is certainly not good for a park of national importance. In addition, some solutions are good in the law itself, but as I said before, there are traps in the law, and it is obvious that the people of this work, which this law is tanning, have felt the same way and decided on Sunday against this law. It would be best, of course, that, according to the referendum outcome, Sunday's referendum outcome, Parliament did not consider this law, but rather the proposal of its fellow Member, Mr Jerovsk, who procedurally submitted it, was not adopted and the President did not put it to the vote, so of course it is expected that you will try to enforce something that the people of this part of Slovenia do not want. I am sure that such an approach is not a good one, and that such an approach does not lead to the resolution of certain problems, but can lead more to some new conflicts, both on the side of all those who support you in this regard and who see some of their opportunities in this regard, some of their entrepreneurial interests, as well as those who have the first concern of protecting nature, then whether or not they will be able to perform some hospitality activity in some part of the park. I suggest you listen to people so you don't force these things, because that's certainly not going to end the way you expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you, Comrade Sok. And I would like to remind you once again that at this point we do not have a business opportunity to decide on a procedural decision because we are not enough. This will only be at 18:00 and 5 minutes, and then a written proposal will be made to end today's debate and continue at one of the next meetings, put to the vote and we can barely decide on it. That is why this part of the debate, the presentation of the views of the groups of Members today, will be carried out. I therefore give the floor to the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, DeSUS and France Lenk, who will present this position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President of the Honourable Colleague, dear colleagues! The establishment of the Triglav National Park by decree of 1961 and its extension to today’s scope in 1981 were certainly a major national event for Slovenians. Of course, over the past two decades new needs and new requirements for regulating our only national park have been developed. In the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we have carefully examined the draft law on the Triglav National Park. We agree that there is a need for more modern approaches that will, on the one hand, improve the effectiveness of park protection and, on the other hand, allow people living in the area of the national park to have a decent and attractive existence. Of course, when the law changes, the question arises as to which direction of development we will decide. In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we believe that there is a need for a clear picture of the mission of the national park, which will be based on a national and perhaps not only on the municipal consensus, because we believe that it is a good that is of universal importance. Of course, people living in local communities in this park area must have a word in regulating a park policy that must not be neglected in any way. Thus, we believe that it is necessary to take into account their will also with regard to the recent decision at the referendum, when most of the inhabitants of Old Fužina, Fish Laz and Studor said that they also want to continue living within the limits of the park. However, it is also necessary to take into account the opinions of the professional public, who has daily tasks with the park and probably knows best where the weaknesses of the park are and where nature can be most affected. As has already been said, it is necessary to decide whether Slovenia will protect its natural heritage in the direction that the directives of the European Union require, or whether to follow the definition of the World Alliance park to preserve nature, or whether the park will become a value where liberal exploitation will be possible. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are convinced that a solution can be found - a solution that will, on the one hand, preserve nature, natural and cultural values and biodiversity, but will not ignore the socio-economic mechanisms through which the park will develop. However, we cannot agree with the principle that everything that is not explicitly prohibited in the park is allowed. It is a direct human intervention into nature, where this principle cannot be announced, for man can quickly cross borders when it comes to his interests. The interventions to space must certainly not be so deep that the park loses its adjective "national". In the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we are confident that we will reach a consensus, as the political consensus was reached in the first law on the Triglav National Park, when some advocated deeper interventions into the park. We are not against development in this area, we believe that infrastructure that will enable tourism and economic development should be put outside the park's borders, close to it. In addition, other measures at national and local level should be taken to help develop the area within and around the national park. It is therefore necessary to maintain the only national park in the Eastern Alps. We must endeavour to expand its area or to protect other areas of Slovenian territory that are suitable for protection and deserve it in the future. In addition, in the Group of Members, we consider the importance of educating and educating young people about the importance of the National Park. The National Park is therefore not only a question of ethics and environmental protection, but also of economics. It is necessary to create and maintain a social climate in which the park will be accepted as a value, but at the expense of it there is also an economy that certainly contributes to the satisfaction and better standard of people in the area. The debate on future regulation is likely to be a long one. In the DeSUS Group, however, we hope that future solutions will lead to a satisfactory solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be given by counterpart Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park seeks to preserve and protect the exceptional natural values and landscape characteristics of national importance, preserve the original nature with preserved ecosystems and natural processes, and biodiversity and landscape diversity, and ensure a coordinated development of tourism, agriculture and forestry in the central part of the Julian Alps. The law also states that the natural values in the area of the national park are of national importance. They shall be protected in accordance with their meaning by a specific act in accordance with the nature conservation rules and the landscape characteristics of the cultural landscape shall be protected in accordance with the rules on the protection of cultural heritage. Thus, the law in this part does not reduce sectoral legislation, which very precisely defines procedures and responsibilities for protecting both natural and cultural heritage. However, the content of the law, in order to ensure a coordinated implementation of the protection of natural and cultural values with the interests of development, provides for the provision of additional financial incentives that can be obtained by defining two sub-areas within the central area: A.) where forestry, agriculture, hunting and sub-area B are carried out.) where sport, recreation and fishing are carried out. When the settlements of Ribčev lie, Studor and Old Fužine are excluded, these are the biggest changes that have also raised a number of questions and concerns in the parliamentary group. Issues and concerns were also raised by a number of experts, prominent institutions and NGOs for the protection of natural and cultural heritage and, of course, by the people already living in Triglav National Park. In the parliamentary group, we fully support the people's decision not to exclude settlements from the park, and further steps will need to be taken to teach the possibility of implementing the following requirements. In fact, they support the adoption of such protection measures in the park, which will ensure sustainable development for the locals and enable the drawing of funds from the existing European Union funds for the conservation of nature and agriculture in protected areas, and they want the ban on non-life now in force on the Triglav National Park law to be lifted. On these two issues or requirements, opinions are also shared in the professional public. Some advocate the view that nature alone regulates life in the park, others that man is needed; for example, it is hunting. It will therefore obviously be necessary to obtain more expert analyses to support the development and preservation of natural and cultural values. We have therefore also put forward a proposal in the Group of Members to postpone the decision on the law to one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much for this position of the United List of Social Democrats. Jože Tanko will present the position of the Socialists of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Today we have on the agenda a law on the Triglav National Park, which has been tabled by four Members of the four parliamentary groups, by one of each government coalition party. It is therefore a coordinated coalition proposal and a joint performance in this project. The fellow Members propose solutions that constitute a direct intervention into a paradise under Triglav. This attacked another last fortress to identify ourselves with the Slovenians. We started a bad year ago with the consideration of the law on space regulation, which has led to considerable simplification of the procedures for spatial change. At the time of consideration of this law, our parliamentary group has particularly pointed out that the law on regulating the premises is too open to capital pressures and will allow unbridled pressure to intervene on the best agricultural and protected land. The proposal for a law that we just have on the parliamentary benches is a direct attack on the most protected and protected areas. Safe is not even the Triglav National Park anymore. Excluding three settlements and significant, still agricultural areas from the Triglav Park area can mean nothing more than opening up breakthrough capital, which, with sufficient collective support from the coalition, destroys everything in front of each other, does not take into account the opinions, concerns and active opposition of the profession, but in this case the majority of the local population. The fact is that the law was prepared in a very narrow circle and probably stands for the proponents only a very small circle of businessmen who want to implement their business and profit logic in one of the most expensive, attractive and unspoiled areas of Slovenia. This law is probably one of the first measures to try to materialise the consequences of a few days of injustice when we did not have an agricultural land law. It would make sense to prepare at least some kind of analysis before considering and proposing changes to such a law as we have before us today, with so great and far-reaching consequences. At least we could process what such solutions bring to the local environment and Slovenia, at least we could be informed of the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed solutions. We could be presented with opportunities and dangers. None of this has been made available to the profession, nor to the local population, nor has it been provided to the Members to assist in the decision-making process. Therefore, there were perfectly logical objections to the bill. The proposal is to seek the legitimacy of the law, take advantage of all options, from public presentations to referendum. However, poor pre-preparation and representation of the interests of a narrow lobbyist group created conditions for a totally spontaneous revolt and resistance of residents to the proposed law. The result of the local previous referendum, which was called by the municipality of Bohinj, surprised the proposer because they did not expect such a uniform rejection. The voters themselves, without political pressure, lobbying and negotiating, rejected the law. Just as it has happened with all the laws that have passed referendum in the last few months. This shows the quality of the government coalition's work and also reveals where its real power is. More and more often, it is operated with a number of hands and often ignores proposals to provide better solutions and broader consensus. It is not surprising, therefore, that almost every law that the unrelentingly and unrelentingly government coalition brings through the procedure falls on every more serious test or exam. I find it completely unreasonable to decide one of the signatories who supported the decommissioning of three settlements from the park area, because, for the second park project, for exactly the same reasons, it proposes to include all the settlements in the new park’s borders and not agree to any other solution. Nor is the solution acceptable, which provides in this excluded part for the replacement of resources from European resources by means of the state budget. Nor are solutions allowing interventions in the TNP area acceptable. In some cases, even in the same article in the conflict, there are individual provisions and they are even more inconsistent with the explanations with which you have furnished the law. The law also offers no benefits, no relief to agricultural land owners who are usually most affected by restrictions, protection and conservation. He told the media that good politicians sometimes have to admit mistakes. Surely, but how can I understand this statement if we are not, as the first-signed proponent, asked us not to support the law? At the same time, he sends us letters, letters that I can only understand as a search for support for a proposal. I must say, I expected a more manly attitude, which also suits good politics. Your Honor! We will not support the law in the parliamentary group because we want future citizens to return to an unturned mountain paradise. We also do not support the initiative of the United List, which was proposed in the procedural debate, and we have also received it in writing now that the law will be dealt with after the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups and transferred to the autumn, as this will only trigger the lobbying machinery to support the law and will at the same time approach the solution of the applicants' skin. It is reasonable to reject the law in order to prepare a new law in which all the good solutions contained in this proposal are incorporated, and for all others appropriate consensus and consensus is found; I think this would be the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you. Ivan Bozič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! There are few of us, but we like to talk about Triglav Park or Parks about agriculture. Slovenians have their own national park and we can be proud of it. We can be really proud. At least alone and even in our parliamentary group, we say it is nice to have our own park. But this park was established, expanded, in 1981, at some other time, not as it is today, so much has been done homely, but above all never asked the inhabitants and landowners what will happen to them when the park is established - never. In addition, in this area, especially in the area where I come from, we also have a law on the protection of the Soca River, which has only 35 prohibitions, and no goodness. So that's how we do it with people and places where there's a park where today's Triglav National Park where we're proud. I would just like to say what is happening in the new proposal for the Development Act, at least for that part, the Triglav Park on the south side, in the development of a better outlook. I would really like to talk first about the people living in this area, because their number is declining everywhere also due to the existence of park restrictions, but I have to deal with the problems of agriculture, forestry, hunting and energy exploitation in Triglav National Park. First of all, it's about agriculture. Bohinj and the Upper Soča Valley, Soča, Trenta were long, long history of pasture areas. The people grazed in Bohinj cows, and in Tolminsk or Bolsk sheep, goats and goats. The federal law, not the Republic of Slovenia, was adopted in 1951, and it was true that it prohibited the grazing of goats. All goats had to be sold in a short time, for a few months. To this day, none of the victims have received a dinar or a tolar of compensation. Stimuli for small-scale breeding are only now present, and before that, it was almost unwelcome. That's right. And I think that the second year of accession to the European Union, at least as announced by the Minister for Agriculture, when we have twice as much subsidies for smallpox, it will also be worth having smallpox, real goats or sheep in this area. The second thing I would like to say about agriculture, after the adoption of the 1981 Law, in 1982/1983, was the persecution of farmers who built their accessible paths to the mountains under Krn. Why? Is there anyone else here in the hall who imagines that he can carry cheese or meat and food for shepherds into the mountain for three hours? It wasn't right. I'm not going to defend unorganized construction, but even in the park you have to think about people and work in this park, not just say: we have a park and nothing will be built here. It's about forestry. The second year after the adoption of the law in 1982, the Ministry of Culture demanded the cessation of logging in the forests of Triglav National Park. Here you are, ladies and gentlemen, who will probably say something else when they return to the Pocket Forest Bishop. What we're going to tell the farmers who could put this on their necks are forest owners. There's something else I'd like to point out. Whenever you drive across the Soča valley or come across Vršič and drive towards the source of Soča, remember that all the road, from the road to Vršič to the source of Soča and even further to Zapoden, was built by foresters. We should probably have a wall there today and walk to the source of Soca. The question of what would be better, whether it is better today or like the wishes of some who would like to preserve a lot of things. There's something I'd like to say about growing up as a woodsman in this marriage. Trent's gone because she's not the same as I met her in 1960 when I was first in practice in Trent. Trenta's infested. And whoever goes down the Soccer Valley to look from Tolmina to Trenta, to the source, will only see Soča in a few places. Everything's taken over by the bushes. That's the result of protection. And orthodox protections, not those organised in the field of work in agriculture and forestry. We often read about prohibitions and to ban the logging of thick trees in Slovenia in the woods. In the TRNOVA forest in 1953, an assessment of the forest management plan was made that the tree should be cut in the 1940s because it has experienced life’s optimum, even maximum. Politics, that's what we're here today, and then there were some others, and there were some college professors who said, "No." And the Forest Institute: we won't cut, but in the '40s, the tree on the tree rotted. We have sold cellulose wood and we expect this in all the forests in Triglav Park, if we only protect the forest. In 1962, large areas of hunting grounds were taken away from hunting families and placed in the management of Triglav National Park. When we talk so much about caring for people; why the locals must not "gag" on their own, why not on the agrarian community that has received it back, but it is a national right that has only taken something away and does nothing to the native. Also an international park association, today I have heard some data, but it is not true, it was decided three years ago that the need in the parks is also a suitable hunt. Why do we cheat and refuse to consider it? In the Triglav National Park, too, the main breeding grounds of the gamsian couples are so far, since the shooting of the gammas in the central part of the park has only been banned in recent years. It's about fishing, too. Why do we have a Soča controller in Ljubljana, why don't they have one? It's also a development, because if I have one, I'll take care of what I'm responsible for, but if someone is far away from me, they're in charge. Citizens in Triglav National Park also face restrictions on the restoration of buildings, such as the importation of grammose. The earthquake in Bovškem - Gramoz was driven away from the separation of Tolmin, and in Cezsoc 100 meters from the renovated Soča houses, the gramoza was joyfully carried away because it was not to be taken. There is no work done in the woods, so the Trents and Sočani left their homes, went with the belly behind the bread, they were gone. The small-scale subsidies, as I told you at the outset, were not available, and now I hope that at least a few of them will remain. I would also like to say that in Triglav National Park many people have restored their second house. They only spend their free time here, and the schools are closed because these people don't have school children. It's 80 to 90 of these houses. Imagine if there were five children in every house. That's right. We have a nice park, but this is said mainly by those, even here in the hall who do not live in the park and have only rarely visited it or never. Developmental incentives for the inhabitants should bring either this law, which we intend to postpone to the autumn treatment and reception, or we need to complement the old one, or we will have empty valleys, like almost all empty mountains. This is not the wish of those living in the park, but probably not of all Slovenians, and it will be our shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thanks, buddy Christmas. And I give the floor to Petr Levič for the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today I have the opportunity to look at the problem of Slovenian national parks in full, it is both backwards and above all forward. In the first democratically elected government of the Republic of Slovenia, you have come to realize a great development opportunity in nature conservation and the establishment of national parks. The government of Peterlet has prepared a plan and the government of Drnovskov has established professional bases for the proclamation of five national parks: Kočevska, interior, karst, stone-savina and Pohorje. Another Drnovskov government has also invested in the creation of parks in Kočevska and Notranjska. The third Drnovskov government has continuously ensured that the park in Notranj will be established no later than July 2000. It's 2003 now. Slovenia, which now has the seventh democratic government, has not received a single national park in all this period. More. The famous Triglav National Park, the only one we have, has become part of the daily populist policy. Black is a great help to the locals in survival, both in the name of the brand in tourism and in the reception of various financial support, it tries to show itself as a stumbling block. At the competent environmental ministry, where this area is obviously far behind, they rediscover America or identify potential areas and their borders. Slovenia has very few protected areas compared to the European Union, only around 8%. In accordance with the guidelines of the European Union, at least three times should have between 20% and 30%. In addition, the establishment of parks is subject to so-called protection legislation. The Prime Minister, by appointing the Minister for Structural Policy and Regional Development, may have wanted to show that he is giving great weight to this area, but the actions do not follow the many promises and assurances made by the competent ministers and by the government itself. Clearly, valuable funds from the budget and international funds are being spent in this area and there are no tangible results. However, if government services were not part of their basic mission, this is the establishment of parks of different categories, the government has had more than ten years to provide incompetent services with organisational and human resources. The apparent incompetence of park development designers cannot be the reason for destroying a national natural value such as Triglav National Park. The Triglav National Park is the only national park in our country and the only one we and our explorers have. It is a national value, in many parts of a preserved nature that is proud of us. It wanted to consider the amendments and to supplement the Triglav National Park Act to begin practically on the anniversary of their establishment. On June 16, 1961, Triglav National Parks was established in the Bohinj area, to a limited extent, which was extended to today’s borders two decades later, and 850 square kilometres [850 sq km]. With the establishment of the National Park, Slovenia has only gained both domestic and international opportunities, the entire area has been given an exceptional development opportunity, a brand that provides a good chance of survival for future generations, while the locals receive numerous benefits and grants. In the public and certain lobbying, there are almost always unfounded accusations against the Triglav National Park, that locals oppose it and that it does not allow for normal development and life. The consultation referendum in Bohinj, whether certain park areas should be eliminated, showed the true truth. Approximately three quarters of the population decided to reject the initiative that was apparently created in the global interest circles and against the will of people living and working in the area of the national park. The Triglav National Park is a value that needs to be preserved, not that this precious part of our country is subject to dismemberment and overexploitation. The party of young Slovenia is proud to have the Triglav National Park. In our opinion, the bill is flawed in essence. Here is the question of what we will add and upgrade in this space to people and our country, not to frame it. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the path taken by the first-signed proposer is not the right one, although we appreciate his efforts, and we suggest that before the second hearing he also listens to professional arguments which are aimed at the future, not in the past, but in the past, when there was unfortunately no real listening to park development in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you for this position by the Young Slovenia Party. Janez Komljanec will present the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia believes that the amendment of the bill on the Triglav National Park is necessary and necessary, especially for the reasons I will present. The current law was adopted by the former SRS Assembly in 1981, and in view of its different legal basis and the long period of time during which fundamental social policy changes took place, it is essential to update the solutions. The current law needs to be aligned with the 1999 Nature Conservation Act, which has set up a completely new system for the preservation of biodiversity and the protection of natural values in the field of environmental values. The current law did not provide for real economic measures to compensate for the limitation of property rights in the protected area. Nor did the law provide programmes to ensure economic activity in these underprivileged areas in an appropriate and more efficient manner. As a result of the severe and non-living prohibitions and certain contested decisions of the park manager, the law has generated some conflicts in the area of the park with respect to the issue of consent to co-positories. Such a situation prevents the creation of a positive conscience about the possibility of implementing natural development and has proved to be a flaw that has often led to a broader misunderstanding of the purpose and importance of the national park. More than that, this failure has had a negative impact on the creation of regional parks elsewhere in Slovenia. Given that the proposal for a law introduces development guidelines and incentives to loosen the protection regime in parts where it is too severe and non-living, to limit traffic in the park and to include planning instruments to achieve a coordinated development of tourism, agriculture and forestry with natural values and landscape characteristics in the central part of the Julian Alps, the common development programme of the area of the national park and the regional design of spatial development, we believe that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration, but some issues need to be further explored and supplemented or even amended. In addition, it is necessary to examine and supplement or amend those articles or provisions in the draft law governing the protection of the cultural landscape and the incentives for fishing in the central area - in particular, this is a matter of sanitary disposal - changes in the destination of the facilities, fishing and recreational activities in the watercourses in the central area, regulating the area taking into account the hierarchy of spatial acts and management plans based on nature conservation rules, the development of a park management programme and the establishment of a park area for visitors. The LDS Group will respect the referendum decision of the inhabitants and will not support the amendment of the external border of the Triglav National Park. In view of the text of the bill and the public's reactions, it would make sense for the applicants to resume their discussions with the interested public and institutions, in particular the Triglav National Park Public Institute. We propose that a public presentation of the opinions be made before the second hearing on the parent's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much for the position of the LDS Club. I also give the floor to Sonja Lavrič Areh for the position of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the Government! In the Slovenian National Party, we will certainly oppose the adoption of the law, as it only partially improves the conditions for the domestic population, and in fact opens wide opportunities for private investment, in our opinion in particular the capital of the ruling parties, in an area that has so far been considered a national wealth. The change in the park's borders, especially the reduction of the area near Lake Bohinj, and the lack of a clear vision of protecting natural and cultural values, are reflected in the allowing for most of the interventions that have been disputed so far; for example, the road to Lake Pri lake, black construction, disregard for helicopter corridors. According to the Slovenian National Party, the proposer of the Triglav National Park Bill enforces different laws, contrary to the international standards of a certain concept of what the National Park is. In such a form, the Triglav National Park Act cannot bear the name of the National Park, but is suitable for the landscape or regional park of the Julian Alps. Such a law as it is proposed does not exist in any European country. In view of the content of the proposed law, it is reasonable to suggest that it is essentially a spatial plan that could release the possibility of construction in an exclusive national space. According to the Slovenian National Party, the proposed laws of the ruling coalition seek to provide exclusive parcels in the most exclusive territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Such vehementity, swallowing, has not been used even by the top officials of the previous system, who have indeed owned certain areas of the former country, but always under the pretext that they are protocol objects. Today, some politicians from the ruling coalition want to acquire luxury plots just past the will of the people. We cannot and will not support such vehementness and disrespect for the will of people in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I now give the floor again to my colleague, Mr Ptræ, who made a procedural proposal before the start.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the meantime, you've all received on the table our formal proposal for a decision under Article 74, so allow me not to read it. It is our intention and our desire to stop the debate and decision at today's meeting in order to continue it at one of the next meetings, if possible in September, if we hold the necessary debate at that time and ensure greater coordination and, if possible, a public presentation of opinions, as proposed by Mr Komljanec on behalf of the Liberal Democracy. I therefore propose that when the opportunity arises, Mr President, we decide and support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much for the proposal and once again for the explanation that you also have on the table. There is now no further discussion on this subject, except after the provisions of Rule 64, paragraph 9, of the Rules of Procedure: "On proposals relating to the agenda," and this is also the case, "there can be no discussion." They may be communicated to the national assembly by representatives of the groups of Members. The oral presentation of such a message shall not take more than three minutes. In no more than five minutes, the proposer may further explain the reasons for his proposal." Now I must make my own decision, because at this point I cannot allow it to be checked by the National Assembly because of the lack of presence of Members. We'll be there at 6.05. Procedurally, Comrade Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u139	If you allow me, President, I would like to draw attention to the procedural irregularities that I believe have escaped Mr. Potsch. A public presentation of opinions cannot be made through the committee until this law reaches the committee - only in this part and otherwise in the rules of procedure. Clearly, we agree with the public presentation, as the applicant has said, and we do not oppose the proposal to postpone the decision-making and discussion to the September session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u140	Good. Thank you. At this point, I am adjourning the further debate, but I call on the delegations to give their views on the proposal. Three minutes. My friend France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u141	I did not understand, so to speak, do you put this proposal before the parliamentary groups to explain their position, or do you interrupt the meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u142	Now after 3 minutes to explain the position on this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u143	I have applied as a procedural issue first, and I am interested in what you will now interrupt the debate on the basis of the proposal or the rules of procedure allowing you to do so? On the basis of the proposal, you cannot interrupt the debate without a vote, but if you interrupt what you can, of course, by the rules of procedure, then I warn you that this will be a precedent of 18.6. You will also experience this because you will voluntarily interrupt the debate without voting on a proposal from the Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u144	Any other parliamentary groups? My friend, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u145	Mr Vice-President, it would be good if the proposer of this proposal, on behalf of the Group of Members of the United Nations, would say whether he insists that this debate should be closed, in which I, like my colleague Tsukati, do not see the point of this proposal coming into decision-making at the time of the decision-making process. But this time, which we have to discuss, at this time this debate can run and possibly affect this decision as well. Since this proposal may not, for example, be accepted, it will then be necessary to reopen the debate, because there is no reason for those who would like to talk about it - and these are quite something - not to tell their arguments before the next possible conclusion that the law is a suitable or inappropriate basis for further procedure. Thus, Mr Vice-President, I only propose that, with the help of my colleague, Mr Purchast, or with your judgment, you allow the debate and it will not be jeopardised, I will say, the proposal of my colleagues from the United List that we vote on theirs before other decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We'll find a way out of this if you don't mind. Any other parliamentary group would like to discuss this? My friend, the Rocksmith, for checking in earlier. Then I will interrupt the session for five minutes and we will consult in room 217 with the leaders of the parliamentary groups so that there will be no unnecessary complications. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Mr. Chairman. I believe that if, at this point, we were to interrupt the debate without the decision of the National Assembly to make dangerous precedents for possible interpretations on other occasions that will take place here in the National Assembly. It may suspend the debate in the National Assembly by a vote. However, if he interrupts the President's opinion, at the suggestion of a parliamentary group, it is our view that this is a dangerous precedent. I personally believe that it is still possible for the State Assembly to end the debate even after the Members of Parliament have declared their position on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I do not insist on anything other than what we would now agree with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. It is a shame that we cannot make a procedural proposal at this time because we are not in agreement. That's why I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. I invite the leaders of the parliamentary groups to room 217, we will take a brief consultation and continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u149	It's 2:47. Colleagues and colleagues, we'll continue our work. In the meantime, we have had a brief consultation with the President of the National Assembly with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. We have found a common solution to how to resolve this procedural proposal, which has been put forward, because the Rules of Procedure do not literally contain such a solution, but it does have - and this is also one of the first cases, so we have found a common solution to continue our work and to make an appropriate decision at the end of this discussion. With this I'm putting to the debate, we're going to call for your attention. [[...]] So we have found the next solution. We will continue the debate of Members and Members, and in the end we will decide on this procedural proposal when the debate between Members and Members is over. Comrade Aloys Sok, I invite you to come to the hall as your first discusser. I'm going to skip Aloise Sok's colleague by giving him my word later, and I'm asking Sam Bevk to start his debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! So the Minister of the Environment, Master of the digger, today said that the government had been given a bill. It's nothing new. It's nothing special. However, it is important to be careful, since it is undoubtedly a very difficult matter of marriage. Here I would like to draw attention to the dilemma which has already emerged at the meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, when it has clearly been found that the law has all the business conditions for classification but has no legal conditions. There was a major discussion here, and then the opinion prevailed that because the law had business conditions, it could be held at a meeting of the National Assembly. I objected to such solutions at the time, for in such laws there is an even more important part of the law than the text of its cartographic work. For the law did not have the accompanying cards in the appropriate scale 1:25,000 or in an even more detailed and accurate scale. I think that it is also necessary to correct the rules of procedure of the National Assembly and to write it down unequivocally and to ask the proposers to submit to such laws a cartographic work on an appropriate scale. The second warning, however, refers to the so-called trial list or test list of the world cultural heritage of UNESCO. In relation to this law, the Triglav National Park Act, the applicants proposed the removal of three settlements from the park area, including the village of Studor. As far as we know, Sunday's referendum was in three settlements and its result was that people objected to being expelled from the park. I mean, why would I put a special emphasis on the problem of Studor here? In 1994, at the end of this year, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia decided to propose to UNESCO the entry of three natural and cultural sights from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia to the list of world heritage at UNESCO - I quote from this material: "In Slovenia, after careful selection, whose sights could also represent in the world speciality criteria justifying the listing, we decided to propose to this list the area of Krasa, the fusion hills in Bohinj and the mining town of Idrija." The village of Studor, with these famous bees, is also an integral part of this proposal. I do not think that it is yet necessary to further justify why it is pointless to reinvigorate the borders of the national park, because this proposal for a world heritage trial list still applies today. It could therefore be important to encourage the government at this point to also prepare an appropriate project and to encourage the continuation of this process, so that perhaps part of the national park we are talking about today could also come to UNESCO's list of global cultural heritage. I will therefore vote in favour of not deciding on this law today and to postpone the decision in the autumn. Even better, this law would not even be on the agenda today and in fact the government would come up with some comprehensive text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you, colleague Bevk. Aloys Sok has the word [[I skipped you so we didn't wait]] . Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President, thank you. Well, it would be really best if we didn't consider this law today, and all of these dilemmas that appear here also point to this. I must say that, on behalf of our Group of Members yesterday, I proposed to the proposer when he sat here with me for a moment, but you obviously made a different decision. I have already presented the position of the Group of Members. Perhaps I would just tell the proposer and add that I know very well what the inhabitants of these three settlements, these three villages, say, the Old Fužine, the Fish Laz and the Studor, voted on Sunday. They voted whether they wanted the park's borders to change or not. And they decided they wanted to stay in the very central park. This means, of course, that the present law, which some of you have said does not allow development, that it is restrictive, etc., for most people to be as appropriate, and that they are not in fact prepared to modify it more thoroughly than the proposal of these four candidates here in the National Assembly. It would also be good and right if the proponents introduced us and taught us what the current problems are in the Triglav National Park. See, talk about the area of Trenta growing - this is a phenomenon that is actually present throughout the territory of Slovenia, including the area in the undeveloped Halozas or in the Slovenian Goricas are growing, and it is very fast. So this can't be an argument that the park's security circumstances are the ones. It is simply that people move away when people leave, the population declines, and the result is that our landscape grows. However, when you talk about a new development option, one of the fundamental questions is, of course, what is development? Is the development of mass tourism or is the construction of buildings in the area of the national park a real development? So we could discuss what development is. Or development is also the preservation of the integrity of nature, and that the country, which is also in some way a proposal of this law and what seems good to me, in some way increases the resources to help these people to survive normally in this national park under all these restrictions. I think that by the next round, if I say so, once again, obviously once in the autumn, you will be discussing this law, all these dilemmas and all these issues addressed to you by the professional public, honestly and thoroughly, and then proposing some different law that will be essentially acceptable and that will not cause as much revolt as this one among the population. In this moment, however, it will be necessary, regardless of the fact that the LDS candidates, who are a very strong party and can in fact vote what they want, will have to, whether they want to or not, respect the will of the people who live there and who have made a different decision at this referendum than Mr Vukko could have expected. This will have to be taken into account, since people will simply not be able to change, he will only be able to change the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. In the meantime, I will give my word to the proposer to respond to some of the dilemmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u154	I would like to take a call - thank the President - especially because of the following. Once again, what colleague Sok is doing is kind of misleading and unfair to people in Bohinj. Taking into account the petition they signed, the text of the petition, taking into account the referendum question, people have decided to establish a specific settlement in all three referendum areas for the removal of these three settlements from the park. And once again, don't manipulate people's will. And something else to know: New Slovenia as a party also has a municipal committee and this municipal committee, which counts three members on the municipal council, supported the referendum at an extraordinary meeting of the municipal council, supported the bill and warned that the will must be respected. It doesn't matter here whether I was wrong - I was wrong because I was making a proposal for a law on the climate that had been in force for the past five, ten years. People have made up their minds. It's in fact that they've made up their minds. And stop it! Let's leave these external borders because they're irrelevant. From this point forward, when the referendum was voted on, the external border of the park remains unchanged, and on behalf of the proposer I have certainly promised before this national assembly, and on this point I think it is a waste of the debate. Let's talk about content where there's really something concrete.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you. I give my word to Ivan Christmas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's only two things I'd say. I don't mind using the word "conjugation"! The cultivation of the landscape is something other than Trenta. In Trenta, once again, when the forest is to the road, it is no longer Trenta. For God's sake, let's understand, there is no Trent, no more humans, tickles and lies that have been processed, that's not Trenta, the bushes are all over Slovenia the same. And secondly, the term unspoiled nature is often used. What is unspoiled nature? It's just that there's nowhere a man could have gone, but there's a cultural landscape somewhere else. And the cultural landscape in the Soča valley and in Bohinj was made by goats, cows and sheep and man, and this cultural landscape is no longer, becoming a new landscape that is far from some natural unspoiled nature. It won't be for centuries when there's no man around and there's no animals. Fouš, the concept of unspoiled nature is wrong; it is unspoiled only where man has never come with his domestic animals, and another is a cultural landscape. And to speak today - we do have some remains of unspoiled nature, some of the walls, some of the individual plants growing in these walls yes, and some of the other parts of the coves, but everything else was girded with thousands of goats and sheep in the Sokka Valley. And whoever doesn't know how to speak, at least not in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Ivan Christmas. Mario Gasparini is no longer present, Blaž Kavčič no, Janko Weber no longer wants to discuss, Franc Čebulj is not present. Janez Komljanec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In this debate, in particular, I would like to start by saying that this law should in fact be an incentive and an example for Slovenia to get other parks, landscape parks and other parks more easily and more quickly. I'm saying this because I know what our problems are with the formation of the Pohorje landscape park. For 30 years, we've been tormented, some keep pushing, others hold back, so things don't move anywhere. And I would say that, I don't know, about 20 percent of the territory should probably have somehow secured for our successors, that is, permanent cultural goods, which will remain more or less the same as it was. If we look at the Triglav National Park, I would say that we are trying to protect what people in this space have done, and that is above all - nature is already such as - from building heritage and also architecture, from landscape, from urbanism; they have done everything without urbanists, without architects, without landscapers and without naturalists. And that's what we're trying to protect. And I don't mean to say that, of course, we can't listen to them right now. But in the meantime the world has changed, of course, the profession came from the need for it, because some are also trying to change these things, given the way life was created and everything else. For all the goodness that comes in the same way as goodness, but stings, on the other hand, does some harm. Most of the time, we know this in nature at every step. This means that it is professional to respect, of course. But there are so many differences between the professions that it is necessary to reach consensus, especially such consensus, that people living in the park will have a vision of development and more opportunities than if they did not live in the park. This is probably a crucial issue by maintaining a balance in all areas. And this consensus is very difficult to achieve, so it is right that we are also working here in Parliament, in our own way, each looking at this problem, but if it is still so grave from anyone, I think the ultimate goal is to get such a law that would accelerate, that would give an opportunity, not only to survive, but also to develop those people who live there, and who would be an example of how other parks in Slovenia would arise more quickly than ever, because when someone says we will make a park here, more or less go to everyone who lives there, hair up. As was said in the case of growth, I wonder for myself whether Pohorje will still be what it is when the forest rises over his ridge. It will no longer be what we want to protect and it will grow, and there will be another landscape. Even if this is not directly related, I would like to draw attention to the problems we have in Slovenia, and I want to link my case, which I know better, with this law. The law, which will be productive and will also be a model for others, will be what we need, but of course we must be coordinated interests on the one hand and on the other - everything to keep the image as original as possible and that we can also step into such a park, otherwise it will be a black kitchen, which is what a certain profession wants; but it is hard to live in today's black kitchen or can't live. But of course it is beautiful to look at and if we have to have it, then it must be a museum exhibit - probably the Triglav National Park museum exhibit cannot be as well as any other parks that we will make in Slovenia. That is why I would like all these further discussions to try, with a good purpose, to reach consensus in all areas and to try to reach a law that is acceptable to all, and especially that will be proud of as a national park, as we say, to all of us who live in Slovenia and to the near future also to Central Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I give my word to my colleague, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. In a way, I am surprised that most of these things that we have been able to hear in today’s day are based mainly or mainly on those letters that we have received in circulation in the National Assembly, where different individuals and groups express their legitimate doubts about this, one or the other, but very little of the thought that Members should have autonomously overcome in some discussion of such a law. In a way, we are lucky that Sunday's decision in Bohinj cleared up with the solution that was also most controversial for me - to go into the marries of the park area. I don't make these decisions myself, like many others, if the Bohinjs have decided against the law, but have decided against a certain piece of this law. Therefore, in this connection, it is particularly important for me to ask whether it is possible and whether it makes sense at any other point, given the experience we have with the park, to extend this park. There are some of these suggestions. It would probably be possible to consider some other part of this marginal area at a time that would obviously be available. What I think is lacking in these solutions, and I will also refer to these high-quality comments of the TNP, where it seems to me that this is even more flawed, is that the park is under-built on elements of cultural heritage, cultural landscape and so on. That all of these zones are somehow being set up primarily from this nature-protection point of view. I do not dispute this nature-protection aspect alone, of course. I believe, however, that the park in such a territory can only be designed in the way that the elements of cultural heritage and the protection of cultural heritage play the same weight as elements of nature protection. And that's very problematic, I'll say, changing these boundaries of the central area only in terms of nature conservation, that it's a problem taking the park as just, I'll say, some really natural reserve and then there's this theory that it's necessary to eliminate an existing human being. But I dare say that, I will say, especially for the central part, it is said for the three-headed mountain, a significantly higher burden on the troupe of travelers who are not registered there, but are constantly present in this mountain, both in the summer and in the winter. And that it's in some way more disturbing than this unfortunate move of weekenders around the park. If this is a strict criterion for protecting, cariculating, nature from man, then it would also be necessary to consider limiting the visit to the Highlands in this regard. I myself expect that further discussions will also define the park as an established institution. If I refer to what my colleague Christmas said and what can be seen in the rich painting, let's say, let's just take the legacy of Jake, then it turns out that, at least in my opinion, the park should also be treated as a treated landscape. I just can't imagine, let's say, - even this is a possible familiar knowledge - of Kugy's monument on the Vršišška road; if you don't get someone there who will keep cleaning and mowing it, then Kugy will be in the bushes for a while. And this will forget some great story about the discovery of Trenta, the discovery of mountains, the Slovenian mountaineering, about, not least, the nearby home, nature and so on. From this point of view, it seems to me that it is also the task of the Ministry of Culture to try to define more precisely the parts of the park that are protected as a cultural landscape. If this were defined, then it would be possible, for example, I am referring to the last Trento, which I know perfectly, to continue as a central part of the park, which would be based not on nature protection, but on the preservation of the memory of how they lived and farmed in this part. Of course, other cultural elements in the park, such as the rest of the Soviet front, should also be valorized. When the park was formed, in some ways very few people were aware of the importance of this front and what was left of it. But, look, this front is, I'll say, historically one of the biggest events that everyone understands more or less on Slovenian soil. For this front there is a huge number of caverns, ditches, I do not know what, even desolated landscapes, and part of this is absolutely necessary to declare as a monument of the highest quality and also to reconstruct it, as they do elsewhere. It's also the history of the park, not just nature. And these are also elements that need to be incorporated into this mosaic image of the park. I'm not going to go into this big discussion about what someone wants to build there or they don't want to build it; it could be much debate. If we went to look at interventions into space, it is not necessary to show that only locals were able to protect their fathers' architectural heritage. From this point of view, it is also appropriate to consider what that building fund is in the area of the park that it once was and which will never be in the function for which it was intended. We'll have to think about what to do about it. These stables and stables will probably never be changed again, the purpose cannot be changed, ergo means that it is necessary either to cheat or let things fall. That's not good. That doesn't lead to anything either. I do not insist on letting all this go on weekends, but these things need to be valorized and this building heritage needs to be given some limited opportunities. This too needs to be answered, either by the law-makers, and I would have expected this interested public earlier. To round; in addition to all this great noise, I now see the opportunity to arrange these things, to make the law, in fact, those promises made by different peoples to the Bohinians and the Trentarians, and I don't know who else, guarantee, and to consider also the equivalent of creating the park of this nature with its meaning as a cultural heritage in the dimension that I was talking about, and then to reflect on whether these zones make sense or not. Finally, elements of cultural landscapes or cultures can be declared national monuments. Other laws allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the debate between Members and Members, as you were reported and present in the first place, and we have time left. That is why I will now choose - the proposer, if he wants the word now - then I would choose the applications for the next round of discussions. Does Comrade Dusan Wolf want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u162	Of course I'll take advantage of the time I have at my disposal. I just wanted to warn or suggest, to the extent possible, that when I am listed as an MEP, I may give up this time in favour of my colleague Kacin. Today, of course, several times has already been said in the introduction by some strong applicants, more personally to me than to those who have signed me. Of course, I apologize to them if they feel embarrassed for me. So, who's standing for the proponents, what kind of capital? Of course, our determination and the conviction that this law is not good stand behind us. The law now in force is not good and needs to be amended. We never wanted to go too fast with this law, so we were among the signatories to the general debate. We never wanted to go through all the obstacles with a bulldozer, if I say so myself. No, no, no. We were ready to listen, talk and point out once again: it is unfair to us and to those who have helped us today to speak out of consideration for the professional public. We have taken the professional public into account with the updated text of the proposal. We have taken into account all those comments and proposals that have been concrete, clear, unequivocal and reasoned. If I now declare that this Parliament is working badly, you will probably expect me to say what it is doing wrong, why, at least in what and why I think it is. Of course, it is difficult to go through such projects when there is a lobby in the back, some belief, some complacency to the point that they are not even ready to talk to you. But once you're ready, there's no response. I'm waiting. On behalf of the proposer, I'm waiting for some arrangements. It is nice to write in your opinion: the proposal does not take into account the international criteria of international organisation IVCN [[?]] . When you ask them, which article on which side; when you ask if this is an internationally ratified treaty, what membership - there are no answers. That's it. At this stage, because I hope and I am sure that the conclusion proposed by the United List will be, I hope that, not for these reasons, which can be summed up from these letters, but that there were more valid reasons for their decision to take the time to debate after content. And I fully agree with my colleague, Školč, when he realises that most of the debaters, at least those who at this stage opposed the clear and unequivocal proposal of the law, have simply looked at the articles, the letters of the readers and have taken the greatest impressions. I wonder which one of them took the time, examined the material available, the views on the comments, the argument of these views, why we rejected something and what we included, and if we did, we could quickly find out that we are talking about five open issues that I wanted to raise in the presentation, but we are running out of time. I, of course, can't get past the feeling that there's some lobby behind this that I don't like to use, but as I've heard about it before, I told myself it's a larifari. Today I find that this lobby exists and that these environmental organisations behind which some lobby stands are not yet far from protecting nature; it is for them to maintain the status quo - as it is now, it is the most beautiful for them. Today it has been said that the last paradise on earth in Slovenia is being attacked by one of the last forts. I ask my colleagues, who is this paradise on earth for? Is this a paradise for those who, after the current law in the central area of the park, because the village has been written by someone, cannot change their apartment house into rooms and apartments, in order to get an extra salary and pay the tax to that country, a tourist tax to the municipality? Is this a paradise on earth for those who are forced to leave the park, an area of the park, especially the young? It was said: we young people are proud of the park. In Bohinj, young people are not proud of the park because they are unemployed, especially those with schools that have been educated and leave the park because they do not have a job. Because there is no employment in tourism either, because tourism cannot flourish. Is this a paradise for those local communities that, in all their projects, are in the bureaucratic grip of a public administration apparatus, the Triglav National Park, which explains this, interprets the law, which, as already mentioned by the minister, in many cases, is arbitrating because they do not have clearly designed criteria for their work? When it is asked of customers to indicate, in addition to the applications, what cools the customers in streams, what chairs they must have that existing facilities must be demolished! Unreal, illegal demands, and all of this has led to conflict in the past. And is this a paradise on earth for these local communities when they're fighting it like Don Quixote with a windmill on the wind that acts like Krutzman's hero from the Bohinian fairy tales? No, it is a paradise on earth for those 700 taxpayers to pay the tax on rest and recreation, at least half of which is in the Triglav National Park area. Yeah, do you think it's just a coincidence to get the petitioner signed, I don't know, 26, 27, 28, or how many of them, the owners of holiday houses, that they want to stay in the central area? In a central area where the law has banned the construction of weekends since 1991! No, they're in the interest of not developing the local population. It is in their interest - if I speak for Bohinj - that tourism does not develop because they are losing their peace. In all the debate, I have not heard a single debater say what the congregations think. Public debate and public presentation are intended for the municipalities and the local population. Therefore, the Nature Conservation Act stipulates that public debate is also necessary to ensure that these people do not receive, as the Triglav National Park received in 1981 without being asked. Because then the authorities decided that it was only necessary to have a hunting ground in this area first, and then this story, which we all support today, developed. Initially, it was meant for hunting and for those who could even make it. No negative assessments were made by local communities in public debates and after public debate, despite calls for proposals on the proposal for a law. The Municipality of Jesenice explicitly addressed this law and confirmed it with two comments, which we have taken into account. The municipality of Bohinj was most certainly engaged, quite understandable as the largest area of the municipality is located in the park and the largest percentage of the population is in this park. However, I have here six statements by the mayors of the municipalities who support this bill because they live in it. And one piece that I fully agree with from the letters of the Members, I hope, will get on the bench in these days. I quote: "We would like to stress in particular that in Bohinj, and probably elsewhere, we do not need any" - in the notes - "good-tempered civil initiatives and" - again in the notes - "lovers of Bohinj, because we know ourselves to preserve our space only under three conditions. We expect the State or the National Assembly to establish such a law that will apply to all the same things and that will be directed in the long term..." and that I will not continue to do so. Seriously and that was the subject of today’s talk, who preserved Bohinj, the Fužinar field unbuilt? And one more thing. Even if there is no park border and even when there is no park, this area is protected by other regulations. We passed a law on land regulation, we passed a law on agricultural land. For God's sake, no one in this country can do so today without any agreement, the opinions of the competent institutions, either to protect natural heritage, cultural heritage, leaders and anyone else, to adopt a spatial act and to cut into such a sensitive area. And that's not what this is about. That is why, of course, I expect during this transitional period when, at the proposal of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we have taken time to reflect. I add: time for res to examine all the material that is written on this topic. And once clearly look and finally find out that the type of readings were not true, they were taken into account and they were eliminated. We are talking - and I will now repeat myself - about four, because I have some time left, about four open questions: the sanitary discharge advocated by the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, together with the Hunting Union of Slovenia, which, at the two-hour coordination meeting, convinced the applicant with arguments, with data, with analyses on the turquoise in this area, on the expansion of the turquoise to other areas of Slovenia and on the other hand a letter from the public institute of Triglav National Park, which will no longer be the national park of the first category. I didn't make it up and neither did my colleague Weber, Christmas or Valentin Pohorec. This was presented to us, argued and convinced by the representatives of the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology and the Hunting Association of Slovenia. About that, I don't think I have anything else to discuss. On this point, the National Assembly will be able to put the arguments below on the table and say: whether we will follow Darwin's principle that it should be allowed to grow and that nature itself will make sure that the gammas will no longer be - or an alpine scapegoat, I have now learned that this is more correct. Another open question is fishing. We didn't think of that either, and we changed it. This was at the presentation of GLOBE a serious request from the President of the Institute for Fisheries, the most invited person in Slovenia, who is acquainted with fishing. And he was saying that they had problems with the bureaucrat administration or the Krutzman hero at TMP when they were talking about whether hunting was also about doing research work in the Triglav Seven Lakes. I think that someone - of course this is fishing - should be allowed to fish out, etc. That's why we tried to write "sport fishing," which, according to my content, was meant to be prohibited. Okay. Again, we will coordinate, and here I see that it will be coordinated. Then we have the uncoordinated issue of recreational activities on watercourses in the central area of the park. Given that we have changed the park areas and defined the central areas only in those areas where the original nature is concerned, there is no longer any need for recreational activity in the central area - we are talking about canyoning, to be more clear - to allow. We won't. Not in the central area, but in the marginal area, under the conditions set out in the plan and plan. So this part is in sync again. What else do we have? We still have a legal, formal, where there is a different understanding of what a management act is. The public institute of Triglavski park, however, considers the management plan to be hierarchically the highest acts. It therefore states in the Zone that "the management plan is a mandatory starting point for all spatial acts." No! No! Wrong world. The mandatory starting point for all interventions to the premises is the Triglav National Park Act, which must have clear provisions, what is permitted and what is prohibited. It is therefore not surprising that the public institution of Triglav National Park does not have a management plan and will not have it for a while, because it is so appropriate. Therefore, a number of letters are sent to Parliament through the Director, which are not verified by signatures. That's not the problem with this marriage, gentlemen. And this has caused conflict, especially among the inhabitants. Not those who have nothing to do with it. Those who have encountered some problems. This led to conflicts between the local community and the administration of the Triglav National Park. And we're just following this flyer and this baton of different statements, which are exactly the same by content and everything that's prescribed. If I tell you this, it is not surprising that the main initiative for petitions has been led by the man who is employed in this Triglav National Park, which has written the most application in recent years at the expense of the local population. Mr. Potts, the truth always helps. If anyone doesn't like it, then that's his problem. I'm telling the truth here. It is also true that we have coordinated with the Triglav National Park, a public institution, reconciled two thirds of the comments in the first text and have never come to the public and say that we were sitting. They let it grow. It's nothing but facts. Will that help? I don't think if this is going to be punished, then it doesn't matter. Then let us begin to wonder whether we are even a country that can avenge Me, but cannot be against these facts because they are facts. [[...]] Ask them to send you a management plan and you'll get it. Finally, I think that we will resolve all the open issues that I have now raised and that most of the provisions of the law will be harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Now that we have some time available, I have already announced that we will give you this time to take advantage of it, and I would collect the applications first. Who else wants to discuss it? Before that, I saw a colleague of Jožef Jerovšek and Jelko Kacin, and Mr Tsukjat and Joseph Špindler and Butolen. Let me write this down. So we have five more debaters in five minutes. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, you have the floor. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's not an hour. [[...]] Let's give it five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u164	No, it's just been said before that we're going to get one way or another. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u165	The President may limit this time and I have now set five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Now that I have listened to my colleague Wolf, I have also looked at this address in today's Work and writes: Antiofensive member of LDS Dušana Vukko. And, uh, I thought it was a little too strong an address earlier. Now that he's been using the military language, the decadent statements, and so on, I must say, the address is still too mild. Comrade Wolf simply does not understand that the political consequences of the plebiscite rejection and the non-trust you received at the referendum need to be accepted. Residents in the park have detected something that is well hidden in the marriage, and they do not accept it. But here I must protest because, before that, there was also an explanation for the insults of the people who were at the referendum - that there were some who were determined, but without the right arguments, opposed to the law. Is the referendum language not the best argument possible in some legislative process? You don't accept these referendum results, obviously. See, the law is intended to protect the nature, the cultural landscapes of this natural pearl in the northwest of our country. It is also intended that people should have a life and development perspective and make it possible for people to have a good quality of life, while ensuring that the original image for future generations is preserved. This should be the purpose - it should also allow for sonar management and residence and so on. But people have detected - and I respect the will of the people of the park - traps and dangers. In fact, they have detected these gainful purposes and interests. I think it's also possible to talk about the fear of selling off the Goddess, which is also legitimate. And they resisted it, they refused it. They have detected the burdens that potentially bring solutions to the Triglav Park in law. I must say, in fact, political culture also dictates consistency in the face of non-trust. We are aware that there is no consistency in this country - Minister Keber did not accept them when he plebiscitefully lost his referendum, and so on. But I see in this, in fact, that people have taken away the legitimacy of this. The legality of such a law remains, such a text of the proposer, the parties behind it, but they have taken away the legitimacy of it. This legitimacy can no longer be restored because the results of the referendum are so clear. I think it will be necessary to write a new law, with a cleaner, simpler language, simpler solutions that will not allow for double interpretations, arbitrary interpretations, and by which you will have to eliminate these interests that people have seen. People today fear the hidden interests of the LDS, even though they have not seen it in the elections a few months ago. But today they're afraid of them, and thank God they've become more attentive. [[The question from the bench is, "Are you done?"]] I think that's the conclusion. And once again, I stress that political consistency must be drawn from non-trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you, Joseph Jerovšek. I give my word to my colleague Jelk Kacin. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President and at the same time President. Eight years ago, I was on an official visit to the United States, and I was taken to the scene of a historic battle. I was introduced to the three men who were dressed - one to General Custer, the other to Buffalo Bill, and the third to the Sitting Bull, or Tatanka Jotanka, as it is called in Indian language. And when I introduced myself to them, who am I to come from Slovenia, General Custer said to me, "Oh, Slovenia!" And he wrote the following terms: "Bled Bohinj, Kranjska Gora, Vršič, Trenta, Soča, Triglav National Park." He visited Slovenia and from Slovenia he knew these few notions of geographical pearls, on which we are all very proud and he rounded them all up in the image of the Triglav National Park. Things got caught up at home, she got caught up abroad, and there's definitely a reason for us to have a special marriage. But this marriage we have is 22 years old. This is also by royal standards of age, and at that time every human being changes, but in particular the law needs to be changed. That's why I'm not hiding the fact that I encouraged my colleague Wolf to write the law himself, because I was sure and today I'm sure the government will not do it on its own. There are too many people who find this marriage beautiful. Of course, there are some who don't like it. And these people are something that we usually illustrate with the term "local population." This marriage to the local population is not friendly. He is kind to Ljubljana, to Slovenia, to all of us who go to the park, but he is not friendly to those who live in the park. And that's why the law is needed, and a correction is urgently needed. In recent years, the administration of the Triglav National Park has done itself so much damage that no one else can cause it as much damage as it has caused itself by its arrogant behaviour. The fact that the Triglav National Park has been empty for many years is no secret. This is what my colleague spoke about today on behalf of his delegation. But he spoke as an MP from this area. I do not object that colleague Jerovšek detects something that others do not know, but I would not dare to perceive anything that he perceives in Triglav National Park, for example in Slovenia Bistrica or in Kidričev, but he can do it because he is close there. I would like to say that Triglav National Park is in my constituency and that is why my debate is much more engaged and perhaps also based on facts. The fact is that the administration of Triglav National Park has a monopoly in its hands and that this monopoly abuses the local population. The story with the boat, the ban on the construction of a pier on which tourists could enter an electric-powered ship, is a typical example of the arrogant behaviour of the administration of Triglav National Park. That's unacceptable. If they did not learn anything from this then there is no help for them, then Ljubljana, as it adopted the law in 1980/1981, must re-adopt the law and frame the room of manoeuvre for them to be in the future to their population, the local population, the only population that pays the taxpayers of this country and their taxes, then the personal income of the employees of the Triglav National Park is paid to be slightly more friendly to this local population. In the fortress of Kluža, I saw the Society 1313 many times, where the local population again organizes to offer visitors something else. I would like to stress in particular that the Triglav National Park has done a lot of good: that the school youth is going to Trento, that the facilities that are available and allow them to become familiar with the advantages and all that Triglav National Park offers, but this is simply not enough. It is necessary to create opportunities for the local population to have the next generation. I just don't want this to be a reservation without a local population to admire the unspoiled wilderness. As the colleague of Christmas said: infested without the population, all admiration is worth it. The law must be fixed before the local population dies or their number decreases below the lower limit. There's no need for romance or demagogy here. It just doesn't make sense that they're setting fire to each other, because it's not European or parliamentary elections, it's the local population and the former director of administration in the municipality of Bohinj, and I believe that he understands and knows the interests of the local population, so in every way I actively support his efforts to complete this law as soon as possible in the autumn and adapt it to the needs of the local population. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to speak for 45 seconds longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague, Frances Cuckati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Which I find kind of funny when you're defending this law, this proposal with the need to amend the old Triglav National Park Act. No one in this house has ever said that this law should not be changed - otherwise it needs to be changed. However, in the estimates and comparisons of some people who are slightly more familiar with Triglav National Park than I am, it is clear that this proposal, including the May proposal, does not apply the requirements that would be expected. The proposal does not cover those provisions that need to be adopted on the basis of all such European conventions, legislation, guidance and our needs. On the other hand, we note that, in fact, the proposaler constantly tells him how much he feels about allowing the living conditions of the local population and that, in fact, as we have just heard, the Triglav National Park is friendly to the Ljubljana people, but it is not friendly to the local population, and even all the mayors have very much supported the proposal because they want their district well, they want to develop to their citizens: however, if we ask these citizens, they are against almost everyone. I don't know, now you're going to say - of course, it's an ignorant people and we're going to tell them what's good for them. I don't like this approach, let me first convince the local population, then maybe I'll think about joining the collapse of our Triglav National Park. I think that in this law there are so many shortcomings and so many key things, this is the contraction that sparked the most revolt in Slovenia and nowhere has it found support, except for certain people I can count on one hand, in this case the opinion of the mayor of the Bohinj municipality is not representative of the municipality of Bohinj, this is the referendum shown. So, apart from some individuals, I've never heard of the idea of breaking the park running into agreement or support. And of course, you know that, although the Members did not receive a letter from the President of the National Assembly yesterday to distribute it to us Members, it is also stated in the letter that this is the letter addressed to us by the Union of Environmental Movements of Slovenia. In addition, 1250 signatures have already been collected or reported and I fear, if this law is adopted, we will have a referendum again. I don't know if it's necessary to go that way with your head through the wall. You will say, because the law can be fixed in these key shortcomings, it can be amended, it can be changed. However, the path to this is much more difficult, especially if we adopt a proposal that will now be the day for the debate to move to the autumn session and so on. A much cleaner, much more elegant, even for the proposer, I think, would be to reject this proposal and, on the basis of experience so far, on the basis of the referendum outcome, on the basis of the debate, because this cannot only be a debate in a narrow circle of ten signatories to the law, but it must also, indeed, be somehow coordinated with these professional associations, especially with the people concerned, to prepare or prepare a new law, a new text. I think that this would be much more correct, much cleaner, and it would be no shame for the proposer. We'd just have a better proposal that we could easily support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you. I give the word to Joseph Spindler, and then to Mr Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members. When you listen to this debate, it's hard to see that, let's say, one area decides the other area. That's hard to say. I always say that whether the park is a national park or whether it is a regional park, it must not, in general, prevent economic activity for those people living in this area. This is the first thing that should be taken into account as Members of this national assembly, and I think that in these five areas everything is certainly written here in Article 4, what should be dealt with in these areas. I also agree to take into account the will of people, of course things will have to be completely clarified so that there is no dilemma on the one hand or on the other. And these are the things that we should stick to, most of all. It's hard to decide, I say again, let's say I from Pomur would decide the Triglav National Park. Those main things I absolutely adhere to, as far as these natural ecosystems are concerned, the development of ecosystems, the natural processes without human care and maintenance and other interventions, these are things that we need to talk about as the common importance of Slovenia, because I think the Triglav Park is one of the areas for which everyone can take up life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you. And the last discusser, Anton Butolen. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u174	Mr President, thank you for your word. In fact, it is difficult to say anything original after so many hours of discussion. Several times it has been said or abused today - a referendum in three villages near Bohinj. As politicians, it is clear to us all that at the referendum people can only decide what they are asked about. And as far as I know from the media, they were not asked whether they agree with the law or not but were asked only whether they wanted to stay in the area or not. And several times today it has been said by the proposer that this will not be taken into account in the Triglav National Park area. And it's, in fact, pointless instigation and all the other stuff about the park's borders. But we should focus on the content. In fact, I had a few questions. The debate has repeatedly said that in Slovenia we have only 8% of national parks, another 24% of which is developed in Europe. But we didn't ask ourselves why we only had 8%. And that's the key question. In the area where I come from, we've also started to flirt a little bit with some landscape park, but we've blocked it. Why? Because people are afraid of parks. But they fear parks because of the orthodox security system in the park that is in force today. People, including in other areas, know the difficulties that Mr Bozič was talking about in Trenta, Bohinj, etc. and practically the parks in Slovenia are afraid of what is wrong. The other thing, the profession, the profession in the nomads. In those days, we were showered with experts and others, in nicknames, "professional opinions". And I'm risking a statement that if at this point we left the protection of this Triglav National Park to such and other professions, it would certainly be gone in 20 years. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. Today we talked about the original nature and the cultural landscape. We're a few thousand years too late for our original nature. The original nature is no longer there, but it was only a few years ago a cultural landscape and we are essentially destroying this cultural landscape today. This is because this is not only happening in Triglav National Park, but also happening elsewhere in Slovenia. In fact, with a number of laws, we promote that cultural landscape is essentially failing. If I only mention that we have put ourselves in the national programme to prevent scattered construction. The whole range of areas is where scattered construction means the culture of this landscape. We protect agricultural land where it should not be, and the consequences are quite the opposite: instead of it being built, but it is ingrained, of course we would say that shrubs are also an agricultural landscape. And there was one other thing that was so much talk about today. It's the weekenders. Let's ask ourselves how these weekenders actually got there. Whether they restored a certain decaying house in the sense that it was built earlier and thus contributed to the culture of the landscape - then they should be rewarded, regardless of the fact that they are weekenders. Or they went, reached into space, then, of course, we have to ask ourselves where the inspections were. It's not a matter of the Triglav National Park Act, it's a whole series of other laws that should prevent it. Weekends are the result of what happened in the park, because of blackmail, but not all the inconvenience in the park, and of course they need to be put into some context, so that the Triglav National Park Act is not abused and a whole variety of other legislation is not abused. In fact, I would like this debate on the Triglav National Park to encourage debate on all parks in Slovenia and also encourage the creation of parks. However, I hope that the solutions that will be found in the second and third reading will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you. I hereby adjourn the debate. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats proposed that the discussion and decision on the proposal for a law on the Triglav National Park should be considered [[EPA 753-III]] , first review, postpone to one of the following meetings if issues are resolved, if possible in September 2003, but we will determine this in the college. I am putting this proposal before the representatives of the parliamentary groups, who have three minutes to discuss it. Anybody want to talk? We've been here before, but I'm giving you that option again. You have a proposal before you, and I've read it. Does anyone have a say in this? Social Democratic Party, France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. The proposal for us is not acceptable for the following reasons. Firstly, the situation and the situation will not change until the next meetings. I doubt we will get any new European guidance on this. I also doubt that the local population would have made a different decision by then. I also doubt that those actors involved in this in any way would change their minds and otherwise represent these matters. And even if circumstances change and condition our views - because only in this sense would it be important to postpone decision-making - then of course it would be a question of how now this text, which in our view is incomplete, inadequate, is not a good basis for further consideration. I think it would be much smarter and much more feasible, I would say, purely and also more quickly, if the drafter would withdraw this text - because he cannot withdraw it because he cannot be rejected by us, and he will prepare a new text by autumn. If we do not accept this, if we do not accept the rejection of the text, then the applicant is also caught in this text, which is very controversial and very disturbing in certain provisions, and in many provisions is acceptable and would also be acceptable to us with careful additions. If, therefore, the proposalr was not caught in this text, I am sure that the autumn with the new text could start much more adequately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you. Any other parliamentary groups? New Slovenia, colleague Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. If we have listened well today and understood the Minister for Environment and Space, he has also stated here that he would rather have this proposal rejected and a new proposal prepared. Of course, a new proposal that will take into account the fact that Slovenia will become a member of the European Union next year, a proposal that will take into account the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, is that the proposals that are written there and which have already been adopted in 1956; then that will take into account the Natura 2000 document, which will comply with the Alpine Convention. If only these dilemmas, which the applicant had said and listed here - four or five - were truly open, I believe that we could agree on this relatively quickly and that this debate would continue, but of course this is not the case. Look, talk about a clean shot, at least for this point, I can answer to the motioner. Now, of course, under the Veterinary Act, it is possible to carry out a sanitary discharge in any infectious disease only if you allow it with an inspection decision. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. So, by decision, I repeat, this has already been done, either because of bravado or because of infectious blindness, the sanitary discharge was carried out after the inspection decision. Fishing, sport fishing - this can, of course, be resolved very quickly, it writes, changes what is allowed in relation to and also recreational activities. I'm just saying it again. I don't believe it. So this is a much broader intervention, and I think that this law cannot be accompanied by another reading in such a way by the continuation of the debate. I also agree with my speaker that it would be much better for Parliament to have this bill on the basis of a referendum, but I would like to see the applicants today not to say that there was any referendum and that this story has passed, that this proposal is rejected and that it is also prepared with the views of the government and, in particular, with the views of the experts of the Triglav National Park, which were not included here, a new proposal. This would certainly be a cleaner and more elegant and faster way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you. LDS News Club. Position on the procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u180	Mr Vice-President, for the LDS Group, the arguments put forward to postpone the decision are difficult to accept. They don't drink water like they call it. However, we note that at this stage the preparation of the drafting of the law has been made of so many non-truths and so many unilateral messages, which have been found to be completely unauthorised today, and so overheated with regard to the debate on the amendment of the law, that it seems appropriate for us, as it is said, to calm the ball, to go on vacation and to come back armed with facts, which would enable us to have a rational debate, not here political instigation, as I have already said today. In this light, the procedural proposal of the United List is acceptable to us as a way for those who have to make decisions in the interests of most of our population to pour clean wine in due time and to recognize those who have drawn up the law what is good in the law. We simply cannot agree to the SDS position, which says that the law is inappropriate for further consideration. According to our assessment, he's quite appropriate. Until the next hearing, we will have sufficient arguments to convince with the power of the argument a sufficient majority of colleagues in the coalition, as well as in the opposition, that, in the interest of the local population and the preservation of the cultural landscape in Gorenjska and North Primorska, we will also simplify and complement this law with the most convincing majority. This is the position of the LDS Group, which will therefore also support the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Any other parliamentary groups would like a word? Because no, I'm breaking up the agenda. We will vote on this procedural proposal in the context of votes, such as the usual practice, at 6.05 p.m. By the beginning of the next item on the agenda starting at 4.20 p.m., this is a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 84(1) and (3) of the Media Act. Thank you for your cooperation!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u182	Dear Members, honourable Members, the rest of you present, a nice greeting to all! We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTATIVE EXPOSURE OF THE FIRST AND THIRD PARAGRAPH 84. Member of the Media Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 84, paragraph 1, and Article 84, paragraph 3, of the Media Act was submitted to the assembly by Mr Jožef Školč, who I give the floor to explain the proposal further. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! It would be more fair to say that this mandatory interpretation has actually come about after an agreement on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport, etc., but it is likely that it will tell its chairman. This interpretation is also necessary in my opinion because Article 84 has already been applied in a way, as we say in this interpretation, neither the bill-maker nor the legislator provided. See, the adoption of the Media Law in 2001 has certainly taken a major step forward in regulating this complicated area, and this law has brought a huge solution that is better than the previous ones, and a huge solution should in fact be made by appropriate sub-laws or other measures of the Ministry and the authorities provided for in this Act. However, this law also sets out, among other things, the content of public interest in the field of the media, and here we are in one of these content, which is the protection of children and minors. Article 84, which is explained by this explanation, does not provide an opportunity for any general prohibition as has already happened, but speaks mainly of the public interest in the protection of children and minors. In this context, this Article provides that television programmes must not broadcast images of unjustified or excessive violence, pornography and other broadcasts that could, I emphasise, seriously harm the mental, moral or physical development of children and minors. At the same time, it states in the following provisions that, subject to certain criteria, television programmes may also broadcast programme content containing erotic scenes between 24 and 5 a.m., provided that these contents must be clearly and comprehensibly marked with visual symbols, provided that the acoustic sign and visual warning are not appropriate for children up to the age of 15. The law also allows the Minister or in this case the Minister to prepare other measures to protect children and minors. A similar solution is found in Article 49 of the quoted law, which speaks of advertisements, where certain content is also prohibited when it comes to advertising those things or to the use of children for advertising purposes. Well, what is true in defence of this interpretation is that both the proposer and the legislator of the solution, as set out in Article 84, summarised from the provisions on one side of the European Convention on Cross-border Television by means of an appropriate protocol and, on the other hand, from the Council of the European Union Directive, which changed once and for all. Thus, if anyone has tried to make some confusion out of this, it should also be unclear to him whether these directives or other regulations also apply in Slovenia and which, as far as I know, do not cause this type of complication elsewhere in the world that has occurred in us. Well, in addition to these acts, there is a convention on cross-border television, which is also the basis for regulating these prohibitions, by allowing, of course, cultural differences to regulate certain things in different ways in different countries. However, it is envisaged that for those content that could harm the development of children and minors, it should be broadcast not only in the way I said earlier, but also in a time when it can reasonably be assumed that they will not be accessible or accessible to children and minors. So this text, which we now have before us, explicitly lists what could be understood as those content that seriously endangers the development of minors and the content that can affect this development and, therefore, are necessary, I will say, this marking and the provision of the prescribed time. The first contents, which we considered at the time, and now we summarise them as seriously endangering this development, fall under this absolute prohibition. Well, anyway, the next thing you have to say is that this, I'm going to say, public interest in protecting adolescents can't be a pretense for someone, I'm going to say, free banning whether it's a broadcast of violence or other content that's controversial. Because, of course, there are other conventions that talk about media freedom, which talk about freedom of play and which also talk about, not least, freedom of choice. There are two different legitimate interests that can then be resolved in this way. In Europe - this is also in these discussions and also in these conventions and other regulations - they suggest to countries not some censor in the sense we understand in Slovenia, but suggest the emergence of self-regulation mechanisms where these mechanisms of course are trying to establish a state. But then there are different stakeholders in these mechanisms: from parent groups or psychologists to media publishers and, of course, media outlets. In this respect, part of the problems are solved not for the prohibited but for the additional works of the Ministry on the measures left by the law arbitraryly to the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Mojet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u185	Madam Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebs, thank you very much for your input. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings! The Committee met for the first time that Article 84 of the Media Act was unclear at a meeting when it considered the report of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Committee and when it considered the report of the Broadcasting Council. At that time, we came to the conclusion that this article was not properly understood or correctly used by the inspector when he issued his decision to prohibit certain programmes. For this reason, we have come to a point of view, whether to amend the law and complete the article by making it perfectly clear, or to pursue what we are doing today, that is the authentic interpretation of Article 84, paragraph 1 and 3. At that time, Ambassador Jožef Školč pledged to prepare this authentic explanation, which we are considering today, and the committee also took up this authentic explanation at its last meeting. At that time, we were also armed with the opinion of the legislative and legal service, and on the basis of our Rules of Procedure, which says that only the mother's working body can submit an amendment to the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the law, the mother's working body, based on the debate and opinion of the legislative and legal service, has tabled an amendment that you have before you. The amendment has two dimensions: the first is aesthetic, which is that in the authentic interpretation we started with the first paragraph and then the third paragraph, while the original authentic interpretation began with the third paragraph and later with the first. However, in substance, we corrected the authentic interpretation of this amendment in Article 84, paragraph 1, so that the original authentic interpretation contained pornography as zoophilia, necrophilia, sadomasochism, sadism, rape and other content, but we did not include the notion of paedophilia in pornography. Dear Members and Members! That's all. Without a vote, the Committee has adopted this amendment and I also recommend to the National Assembly that it be accepted as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to a representative of the Government, Mr Vojko Stopar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, will present the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you, Madam President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the proposal for an authentic interpretation, as proposed by the Member, Mr Jožef Školč, because it believes that this authentic interpretation will facilitate the distinction between those programme content which, as the law says, can more seriously affect the normal development of children and adolescents, and between allowable erotic content. However, we must point out that, despite this clearer distinction, there is no final definition of either erotica or pornography, and this border area will remain unclear, so that in the event of a dispute, there will still be a need for an arbitration of independent experts. As Mr Školč said, there are different cases abroad - in Slovenia it seems appropriate to us a body, for example, a world for broadcasting. I would also like to inform the National Assembly that it is with this broadcasting council that the Ministry of Culture has drawn up an agreement on the so-called self-regulation in this area. As we expect, all broadcasters in Slovenia will be signatories to this agreement, but it is true that this will leave the uncovered area of cable operators, as well as in cooperation with their associations, that we are preparing a call as a measure, an additional measure by the Ministry, which will also achieve the marking of content at issue by the end of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Master Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u189	A distinguished representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I will explain this proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 84 of the Media Act. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 84, paragraph 1, and Article 84, paragraph 3, of the Media Act is unnecessary because the legal provision is clear. Exaggeration of excessive violence and pornography that is harmful to children and adolescents is therefore prohibited. TV programmes between 24 and 5 p.m., including scenes of violence and erotica, are allowed under the legal provisions. Similar dictions have also been adopted in other countries, in particular European ones. The law clearly defines the distinction between the terms "violence" and "unjustified" or "excessive violence" and the terms "pornography" and "ethics". Unjustifiable or excessive violence and pornography are totally prohibited, while performing scenes is common, that is, justified or unabated violence and erotica, acceptable from 24 to 5 p.m. Conventional violence is also permissible in the context of reports and similar broadcasts at other hours. The text of the authentic interpretation attempts to alter the law in a controversial and commercially unacceptable manner, as it would thus conflict with the first paragraph of the same article, where it clearly states that they must not play pornography. Apparently, the proposer of an authentic explanation would like to make a second change in the law. For these cases, we have business provisions that apply to the adoption of amendments to existing laws. Therefore, the functioning or conduct of an inspector from the Ministry of Culture in a resounding Slovenian case was also appropriate. Those who are not satisfied with it, instead of being blinded by the authentic interpretation of Article 84, now the current media law, propose to amend it in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. More than an authentic explanation, the competent minister should prescribe additional measures to protect children and adolescents in accordance with this law. That's what I think is the sixth paragraph of this article. According to the experience of other countries, the coding of television channels should be regulated in Slovenia to ensure adequate protection of minors and children while ensuring the constitutional freedom of adults. Appropriate treatment is needed with other sound, word or image carriers. Film production in cinemas, in the form of illicit age, purchase of film and other material in special stores. This ensures the freedom of adults. The priority is to protect young people from things or interventions that are harmful to their development because it is possible to ensure this freedom in a different way. So I don't agree with that. This is beyond the context of the Group of Members, it is my opinion that the problem is not only in labelling, but in content. In specific cases, the issue of border cases has been raised and who will define the concepts of eroticism and pornography. The dictionary of the Slovenian book language is clear. In some specific cases, however, we allow judgment to be difficult, a distinction between pornography and eroticism. In rebuttal cases in Slovenia, however, there was certainly no dispute that there was a strong form of pornography. Even in the event of the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the text of the law proposed by Mr Školč, we will still face border cases in specific cases whether a scene is disgusting pornography or unprecedented violence. In other countries, there is a committee of inquiry and decision-making, but this is not a matter of law, nor of authentic interpretation, but of decision-making on a case-by-case basis. We will not support that authentic explanation. First, because it changes the legal text into an inadmissible procedure or interferes with it. Secondly, even when we adopt a mandatory interpretation, we will still have difficulties in making decisions on a case-by-case basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u191	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State! Dear fellows and fellows! In February, the ban on the production of pornographic films by two cable operators opened the media space for a number of responses to this decision and at the same time prompted a request for an authentic interpretation of the first and third paragraphs of Article 84 of the Media Act. Two years ago, the law adopted did not seem to have sufficiently clearly defined inspection powers for all, as it was possible to detect diametrically contradictory responses to the prohibition expressed by the desire to exercise public interest in the protection of children and minors against the negative effects of inappropriate programming content on their development. From this point of view, we are nothing special because in other countries too, opinions about the eligibility or injustice of any restrictive measure are being violated. This shows a questionable sense of censoring, since access to information cannot be restricted in today's day, overtaken by a wide variety of electronic systems and networks. In this context, the timing of the transmission of prohibited content also appears to be very questionable, which has recently been confirmed in the immediate context of the inspector's ban. According to some experts, more than banning and restricting the creation of a culture in which the media community can distinguish between a good and a bad, socially acceptable and unacceptable programme. This is, however, a more difficult and long-term task, since it is necessary to count on the taste and demands of viewers on the one hand and commercial interests on the other. At the time of the adoption of the Media Act, a number of cable operators were able to read a statement explaining that free choice of programmes is always possible, that they want to follow demand, and that some have therefore considered even the day-long broadcast of pornographic films, to reports, to end such programmes or to encode them, thereby narrowing the customer circle at least after some statements. However, while censorship is a proper solution, it can be concluded that operators rely largely on the wishes and needs of viewers, not changing them, but adapting to them. This is so much more worrying because there are many theories about the impact of the media and their messages on the development of behavioral patterns in viewers. Despite their diversity, it follows in particular that violence affects the recipient. In particular, three effects are apparent. For one thing, the viewer takes aggressive behavioral patterns or learns such behavior. Secondly, often encountering violence in the media reduces the viewer’s sensitivity to violence. And the third time, many viewers become afraid of becoming victims of violence. Since violence can also be detected in pornographic films, it is also true of these contents. Often, references to the repeatedly blurred or difficult to determine boundary between eroticism and pornography have already been made to a good extent, but, of course, sometimes it will not be possible to avoid the necessary assessment in individual cases. That is why it seems that the most acceptable way to solve this problem is through self-regulation, which the Inspectors mentioned simply encouraged. Some operators seem to have responded appropriately, leaving doubtful software content, coded it, or equipped it with appropriate markings and warnings. Finally, the necessary system regime for self-regulation and co-regulation is announced. We will therefore support the mandatory interpretation or authentic interpretation of Article 84, paragraph 1, and Article 84, paragraph 3, of the Law on the media in the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you so much for saying that. The dilemma, supported by Ambassador Školč through the mandatory interpretation of Article 84 of the Media Act, requires a slightly different definition from us to values and to unacceptableness. It requires us to re-evaluate where an individual decision is acceptable, safe and bearable, and where that soft field begins, in which we can get in trouble at any time, and from which it is difficult to get out without lasting consequences. This topic is also one of those which some groups consistently and systematically launch into all spheres, from political to civil. In fact, it is a systematic approach to the processing and modification of existing social standards and values, to systematically promote the movement of the social value centre towards liberalism or even anarchism, in which everyone can do what he thinks that moment. Among the social phenomena that we must definitely face and to which we must find an acceptable response and also provide for the appropriate conduct of society as a whole, including alcoholism, prostitution, pornography, drugs, and the crime of white and other collars. However, it is not possible to respond to all these phenomena simply by changing the limits of tolerance, by reclassifying an area from a socially unacceptable and burdensome area to a socially acceptable one. Such narrow corrections, which we have experienced and because of the uncritical majority of the National Assembly, have also been incorporated into certain laws, certainly cannot solve the problems and dilemmas of modern society. Therefore, the number of cases of unacceptable practice is regulated only by changes in the legal provisions, thereby correcting statistics on the number of offences and not solving the substance of the problems and not eliminating the focal points and the causes of their occurrence. Only decriminalisation of prostitution, legalisation of the use of soft drugs, release of pornographic and violent content and other similar interventions preserve all the causes of new creation and spread of these phenomena; perhaps they just open up some more. A major problem in the area addressed by the mandatory interpretation is the apparent non-compliance with the media law. No important provision of this law shall be complied with. There is no reliable media coverage, no control over capital connectivity and market creation, no control over respect for a number of other provisions. The absence of either the Ministry of Culture, the Broadcasting Agency or the Broadcasting Council, as well as other supervisory authorities, is entirely present, and attempts are being made to recover where possible. A large part of the blame for this situation lies primarily with the Ministry of Culture, including the area explained by a mandatory explanation. The Ministry has not submitted for acceptance or has adopted any act that would specify the harmful content or imposes no criteria, instructions and criteria on producers or distributors. Nor is there a prescribed procedure for obtaining the appropriate consent to play content at issue. It should be stressed once again that the situation in this area is not completely regulated and that all interpretations of suitability are left to highly commercially oriented distributors and owners of television stations. The exclusive commercial interest governs the social standard, and this is totally unacceptable. The applicant for a compulsory interpretation refers to certain foreign standards and regulations which clearly reveal a great deal of concern in a number of countries in order to prescribe the conditions and method of distribution and the presentation of so-called infected, objectionable or inappropriate content. The Convention on Cross-border Television, cited by the School in its explanation of the mandatory interpretation, clearly shows that it is imposed on the media, in particular television, to respect human dignity and the fundamental rights of others when it comes to the development of programmes, all the components of programmes and the way in which they are presented and the content. The directive, which is also referred to by the proposer, also requires the 22nd Members to take appropriate measures to ensure that television, television broadcasts under its jurisdiction do not contain any programmes that could harm mental, mental and moral development. Children are particularly exposed to this. I certainly belong to pornography and unjustifiable violence. It should be pointed out that in developed countries, which are aware of the impact and risks of the dissemination of inappropriate media content, this area is very closely regulated and also well controlled. We will not support the mandatory interpretation of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group because there are no fundamental levers of media control. As long as the control system is not ensured until the necessary sub-legal acts are adopted, until completely uncontrolled distribution of content is allowed even to the media, which may not even be included in the display or have no constituted authorities in accordance with the law, it is entirely inappropriate until then to close the doors to distribute disputed content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! At the previous point, I said that we very much like to talk about the national park, the Triglav National Park and agriculture. The full balcony was the people of civil society who were interested in TNP. And these media don't care about anyone, because the Tribune is empty. Opinion of the SLS Group on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 84(1) and (3) of the Media Act. In the world and even in Slovenia there are increasing abuses and violence against children and adolescents. Such content is certainly encouraged and disseminated in public and other media. Therefore, we believe that various measures are needed and allowed to contribute to the reduction of violence and abuse, especially in order to protect and defend the weakest members of our society. These are, unfortunately, mostly children and adolescents. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that Article 84, paragraph 6, of the Media Act makes it clear that a competent minister or minister may prescribe additional measures, i.e. to prohibit the transmission of content at issue, in order to ensure that children and adolescents are protected from harmful consequences in both mental and moral terms and in the physical development of children and adolescents. The law itself, in the first paragraph of Article 84, lays down a prohibition on the display of images of unjustified or excessive violence of pornography and other similar broadcasts. The conduct of erotica and violence is limited and allowed from 24 to 5 p.m. It has also been established that such broadcasts should be marked with a warning of inappropriateness for children. However, the explicit provision imposes and allows the Minister or the Minister to take other measures. Among these measures, there may also be a complete ban on broadcasting. The law does not provide for the adoption of these measures only for television programmes, but also for printed media and electronic publications. In our view, other different measures are available and may be taken by the competent ministry, not only by banning broadcasts by example from other countries, such as the introduction of additional payments, or by a closed programme, for certain broadcasts. This child and adolescents would not be able to access content for which parents find it harmful to them, in their own opinion, that they may be harmful to them, in view of the inappropriate content of any other adult shows and shows, not only for those defined in Article 84 which are the subject of this authentic interpretation. Authenticity is a way to ensure clearer regulation and better implementation of the law. It is important that it should follow the original purpose of the law. The proposed authentic explanation sheds light on two concepts: pornography and eroticism. We therefore believe that the media law will be more easily implemented in this work, so we will support the amendment of the committee that follows the provisions of the law and replaces the proposed proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The term authentic interpretation itself means that it is an instrument that can be used to determine the content of a legal provision that is not sufficiently clear. However, it can, of course, be found within its original, that is, authentic meaning. It is undeniable that the proposed interpretation that we are considering today contributes to greater clarity and greater understanding for those who will implement it. It is also undeniable that Article 84 of the Law was written and meant in the way it is today or now interpreted. The problem is that the media inspectorate interpreted or saw it in his own way. This has also led to a ban on the transmission of suspected content or, in the opinion of the inspectorate, to a ban on valuable pornographic content. When this censorship happened, the whole thing got complicated, messed up, and, in my opinion or in our opinion, even left behind and moved to a slippery field that we no longer meet. In the old, it was 10 years old, 20 years old, because there were commissions that kept watch over the permissible and unacceptable. They did stars and ratings at the movies and found out how they were appropriate. In those days, however, they were not home to SZDL in practice, but to sinephiles or civil society. In a recent case of restricting the transmission of so-called pornographic content, the current inspector, with the Ministry of Culture, which referred to the definition of pornography, found that this coverage, I quote, "one scene or a sequence of scenes showing sexual relations in the way that visible sex organs are" [[End quote]] . With this reference to this technical explanation, most television programs or cinemas could be discontinued in general. Of course, provided that the appropriate authority, equipped with, say, subjective censor criteria, would reasonably measure the disputed square centimeters of the film area and remove them, in the manner of the former inquisitors, from traffic. There does not seem to be a disputed restriction on the presentation of what is common to us, it is said that a general, not just the papal society has decided to go beyond respect for human dignity. Most modern communities have drawn the line, saying that they have carried out pedophilia, sexual relations with animals, or acts that encourage people not their own violence and also grave degradation, such as torture, sadism, rape, necrophilia and even unjustifiable violence, or what is justified violence at all. To a recent ban that referred to the media law, when it prohibited any representation of pornography or erotica, I felt that the society of certain borders had already set a limit in such a general sense that they did not need to be accurately and clearly drawn up in a legal dictatorship, that is to say, in law. This is how the media law was written. At the very beginning, when he was more precise and taxive, the public, who cheered and attended his appearance, complained precisely because of this taxability, czech, bureaucratic language of the law hard to suck up to generally acceptable notions. Therefore, the article was subsequently reduced to what is now referred to in Article 84. However, when writing the law, be precise and count on that what the writer of the law thinks is not necessarily understood by the user and his supervisor. In this respect, we could continue to meet, perhaps, with disputed involvement of guardians of the law in a way that is not possible to meritize bureaucratic eyes at all. Moreover, we find it extremely dangerous to have someone in the future tell us which scenes are in the function of artistic or any other message; even if they were to do so by counting the square centimeters of sexual organs that occupy the surface of films, because in this way they would all fall into a very, very wide field of pornography that the guardians would define. Eros is elsewhere, not in the so-called boom film erotica, which is usually invisible. When recently this - well, for some time now - was flooding the night-time Cyprus television so-called pornography, the Primors walked around for a few weeks with their binoculars - but not for long. And not because television would stop the night beats, but because the viewers could decide for themselves - and they went to bed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation shall be followed by a debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Would you like a word, Mr. Petty Officer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said, the law in Article 84 is perfectly clear and clearly sets out. Even if we introduce these questionable subcategories of pornography, we don't get anywhere. This is simply a breakdown of something, which is clearly stated in the law that it is not allowed. This does not mean that this form or pornography, as such in Slovenian society, is impossible for people and the so-called right to free choice. For this we have other ways where so-called right or freedom can be sufficient. I reiterate that the right to protect children and adolescents from harmful influences in favour of freedom of choice is a right because the freedom to choose an individual to decide on pornography can be guaranteed. We have other options to get to that. Harmful action; it has been repeatedly highlighted, even in society, that the harmful effects of this effect must be demonstrated. No, no, no. Here is a general prevention, a general finding, just as is the case with the law in the case of asbestos, its harmful effect, whether or not the individual is sick. Labelling is not enough. Like other countries in the case of such films, the Ministry of Culture - now I do not know these definitions well - could set up a commission of experts and define these films. Whether you can shake it with your head or not, so it is in other countries, and they don't laugh at it. They simply let it go and it is a qualification, it can also be a qualification in two or one classes. I've also been paying attention to the opinion of the law enforcement department. In this case, the Law Service has not acted as it is entrusted with its powers. This is not the function of the apology of certain opinions that someone puts on. The Law Service should be particularly concerned that the authentic interpretation of the law retains its meaning, its mission and its definition of authentic interpretation, rather than amending the legal provisions. That is why we have other mechanisms or other procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, I wonder what the Minister has been waiting for, why she has not accepted or written and adopted an appropriate regulation which would also lay down certain matters concerning the implementation of this. Pornography and prostitution that have appeared recently, that's a symptom, we might say, of personal disturbances. There's nothing written about it in professional literature. It is a phenomenon between human relations, which we do not deny, and the thing of the State is, in particular, those who strive for healthy spiritual and physical development, to facilitate, to promote healthy ways and to prevent, not to sanction, not to punish, but to help, but not to encourage. The inspector who acted in this case did exactly what was right. In this case, there was no disputed authentic interpretation or ambiguity about the content which was disputed and the subject of the sanctioning procedure, it was quite clear that it was pure pornography and this hard content. It can be found on this list of content that can be borderline. In this case, the opinion of the committee responsible would be welcome and should be respected. Although there will be a mandatory interpretation, the inspector will still be able to comply with only the legal provision. Such a compulsory interpretation as it is here shall be inconsistent and shall be contrary to the first paragraph of this Article and shall not be subject to respect. France, as a liberal country, see how until recently this mode of coding, thus limited access, attempts and kicks out, thus excluding television. After serious consideration to ensure freedom of choice, there are other ways that adults can buy film material, written material, sound material, and more. Thus, there is no problem of being unable to meet certain needs that may be from the point of view of personal disturbance. But there's no point in discussing it. Once again, the advantage of protecting children and adolescents, their healthy development, is before choosing adults who are allowed such content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. If I was not initially convinced that an authentic explanation was necessary, I am now convinced that it is indeed necessary. Although I was almost certain, given the Inspector's intervention, because of course I was sure that he had made a mistake, that he did not understand the law well, especially if it was someone who carried out the law and established the law, then it was a necessary authentic explanation. That it is necessary, but I am even more confident now that I am listening to the debate here in this national assembly. It's necessary because she mixes certain things. We have a very good idea, an urgent thing to write down and have to be done, this is the protection of children in the case of violence and pornography, of course we immediately touch on something else that is regulating something, regulating the area and especially pornography - that we are on the clear, no one or only mentioned violence, everyone is talking about pornography, erotica, that devilish thing that can be seen on TV screens now or earlier. The point is, obviously, after some of our moral, ethical, religious, I do not know what kind of visions to regulate the world of others. All that as gods we determine what one can do and what one cannot do, when he can breathe, when he can read a book, what kind of book he can read - were there also times when it was going on - and of course when and how he can watch and what kind of television he can watch. Article 84 is very clear. Just as it is clear to my colleague Petty Officer, he is completely different to me, which means that an authentic explanation is needed. It is clear to me that what is prohibited and not supposed to be is allowed from 24.00 to 5.00 hours. Otherwise, we wouldn't have mentioned those hours. What would be mentioned in the 24:00 law until 5:00 if we were not to do so in those hours - it would not be mentioned because it is unnecessary. Look, man - I'm talking about adults - he has to have a choice, he has to make his own decisions about what he's doing, he has to decide for himself whether his morals, his faith, his ethics are such that he likes something and lets it happen or not. And after that let him act and live like this - do not let me decide on his behalf. I will borrow from the previous point - I hope he won't mind me - my colleague Tsukati said very nicely "an ignorant people, and we will tell them what is right, it is not a good approach, it is not a good approach," said my colleague Tsukjat. I deeply agree with him, only at this point, and he spoke at the previous one. It's not a good approach. It is not a good approach because, look, this authentic explanation introduces something that was not actually in this law. This implies that tax rulings list things that are also prohibited within this pornography in most European and global normal countries. Pedophilia is persecuted, paedophilia is persecuted online, it is persecuted in porn stores, it is persecuted everywhere; it is closed, from bishops to teachers, journalists and politicians who are pedophiles. And it's right to lock them up, and it's right to pursue them. And it also introduces now this authentic explanation of ours, even listing what is not supposed to be. But nothing more than that, and it's also that nothing more than that. I'm a little afraid of the Secretary of State's explanation, who still sees the possibility that someone will judge what it is and what it isn't. There can be no judgment. It must not be left if it is an inspector or a group, the matter must be perfectly clear, clearly written and clearly recorded in this authentic explanation. Look, pornography - if we're talking about pornography now, and I'm more worried about talking about violence. Even we all know this horrifying term "unjustified violence", so some violence is justified - of course not for me. But this pornography that we have so much to say about is present. She's present at every gas station, selling pornographic tapes, DVDs, and I don't know what she's selling in a store with erotic devices -- I don't know what it's called, it's probably called. We have no idea on the internet how many possibilities of getting pornographic material and of course we have with us now, I think cable operators are already doing this, if I'm not mistaken, two programs, 24-hours where they're spinning, of course they're coded and against payment, monthly subscription, you can see these things without any problem. Of course, I think it's the right thing to do. But each one will decide for himself whether to intervene after it does or not, whether he wants to watch it or not. The essence of the story is that the part that should be protected is protected, and it is, of course, a child. This is the one that can be affected negatively. If it wasn't just for us, and I'm a little sad when we're talking, we're only reading one piece of something. My friend Tanko, I'm sorry he's not here right now, but I think he's going to do it fast, and he read something from a directive called "Television Without Borders". Perfectly correct. Unfortunately, he didn't read the whole thing. He only read the beginning. And I'll read it if you just let me -- and I'll finish it -- from start to finish. Article 22 of this Directive provides: "that Member States must take appropriate measures to ensure that television broadcasts broadcast by organisations under their jurisdiction do not contain any such programmes which could seriously harm the mental, mental or moral development of minors, in particular programmes containing pornography or unjustified violence." This is where my friend Tanka read it. I read further: "These measures should also be extended to other programmes which may harm the mental, mental or moral development of minors, except in cases where the choice of appropriate broadcasting time or any technical means is ensured that minors cannot hear or see such broadcasts under normal conditions." That's what our law says, and now it explains the authentic explanation. It is only necessary to read and find that this is by following the European directives where people have previously started dealing with these problems that we are dealing with now. That is why, of course, I will gladly support this authentic explanation and also suggest that colleagues and colleagues do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick has the floor. You don't want to? Mr. Tsukati is gone. Mrs. Shirca? You don't want to. Mr. Sculpture? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u203	Thank you very much. I'm going to use this application to answer some of these things that I think are wrong and that they are also misunderstood if I just understand the motive for being opposed. Look, with an authentic explanation, it's not about what's obvious. It's about changing the law. The inspector intervened in the law with his own action. He changed the law. The interpretation that followed was trying to change the law. It therefore seemed to me, and also to the Committee, that we should resolve this problem with an authentic explanation, but that we should deal with other problems which are undoubtedly related to the implementation of this law and also to the implementation of this Article by supplementing the law. Complements of the law, I think it's necessary. As I said earlier in the opening recital, the Ministry has the opportunity to take certain measures in this area, but unfortunately not if the minor turns around. Look, it's also the wrong idea to try to distinguish between pornography and erotica by this authentic explanation, that there's a problem. It's another thesis that came up with that disputed action. There's no problem. It is not the question that eroticism can be broadcasted but that pornography can not, but it is a question of which content must never be broadcast and what content can be broadcast under certain circumstances. In this sense, of course, it is not true that Article 84 provides for the possibility of prohibiting pornography in general. This option is not possible, whether or not they would accept an authentic explanation. It is a matter of what content this Convention, which, by the way, is not as Mr Tanko thinks, is a foreign matter, but is ours, because we have all ratified them and also internal law to define this absolute limit, and in the exception between 24 and 5 p.m. we limit the transmission of potentially controversial content. This is also not the case with Comrade Petty Officer when he speaks of some encouragement. There's no encouragement. One paragraph brings an absolute ban, one paragraph brings limits. There's no solution to this either, I'll say, if we talk, pornography, erotica. Look how these things change. In 1899, prior to the century, the Ljubljana diocese completely burned Cankar's Erotica. We find that strange today. Of course, there was no television back then. I can't imagine what a television program would look like under such a restriction of authority as the bishop had at the time. Cankar's Erotica is today, say, I don't know, less than an innocent "smoker" someone gives to someone when they go on a date. So these things move, too. Good, award-winning films have scary scenes of violence, such and different, including sexual violence. But I still don't think that's why they can't get into some kind of ban because the context of the story, where these elements of violence are, is the one who determines that it's going, let's say, for some highly artistic program. The second question is how this choice is or is not implemented. This is not a choice in the same field, but also does not affect this explanation. One thing is, if you're going to go, you can have some idea of what used to be going abroad, the other is if you can watch it at home, the third is if you can buy a tape. Mr Drobnic wants us to read in secret, just as we needed to do some of the magazines that were political, so that people should do these things in the same way, because they must not like it. I understand that, but he has no right to forbid it. That's the thing. From this point of view, this restriction. Of course, the most dangerous is the thesis that says the ministry has the opportunity to prevent something. This option is only legal. This thesis colleague Christmas is devastating for media space, freedom and pluralism. It's quite devastating. Imagine if someone would intervene in what is allowed and what is not. Yeah, that's not it. These things must be defined by law and, in this sense, an authentic explanation is one of the grounds that the power defines, which are the content of which there is no discussion and where else they can be presented in some circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you very much. However, I wanted to explain to Mr Školč that I could continue the debate, including as a proposaler. As a candidate, there are five minutes reserved but no further notifications are made to the debate. So I give the floor to Mr Drobnič, who wishes to replicate Mr Školč or was obviously misunderstood. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. I was really misunderstood, so I'm obliged to explain to Mr. School. As with free choice, I made it clear. Adults go or we can go to the store, to special shops, nothing in secret, which is open, because these shops are open 24 hours, you go in free, buy what you want, as an adult you are not disturbed by this. I didn't say anything about it, Mr. Skull. But I've been talking about how television, public space, the law makes it clear. There is no need to define or cite any sub-definitions, as it clearly states in the law: "Television programs must not broadcast images of unjustified or excessive violence", that is, the first thing, and the second: "pornography." Because of me, you can split pornography into ten branches, one or the other, but the law is correct. And the cases that were in Slovenia were not controversial, they were not borderline between pornography and erotica, there was nothing, it was clear, and that was understandable. But, of course, movies and so on, where the assessment may be different, where it is of artistic value, otherwise shown, because perhaps the view of the film’s contents or if you know the content of the film is a completely different dimension, it has a completely different dimension. It's actually a message term. Pornography, we know what it's like -- it's poor, it's just that. But as much as it's artistic and I don't know what else it is, I'm not a specialist myself, but it's totally different. That's why it would be good for the commission to have that opportunity. In short, I don't want to ban anything from adults, that's one, they can go free - we haven't talked about it, nor have I any ambition to ban it. And secondly, paragraph 84, first paragraph, is clear. It will be anyone, even there, I don't know, a farmer behind a hill or any other, with primary school or even less, who knows what it is, and clearly writes. This is a wrong approach to modify the legal provisions by means of a mandatory interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The proposaler and the representative of the government still have time available in the context of the general debate. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Once again, it is true to say that there is an authentic explanation of the terms. To clarify the terms, Mr Sok, if you would like to know about Article 84, which has a clear title. This address is "Protection of Children and Adolescents". This is also what is considered to be a public interest and why it is possible and under certain circumstances to intervene in the media space. Otherwise, you may recall that the media space is virtually untouchable for arbitrary interventions by politicians, churches and anyone else. This is one of the items of the so-called free world, which, I understand, also brings you problems that you find difficult to live with and maybe you don't like. But the media space's public interest associated with it has this limitation related to the protection of children and adolescents. Mr Petty Officer, it is therefore not possible to punish those who are 15 years old or under; we do not agree here. You cannot, on the basis of the assumption that this could harm a child, prohibit the same adult. For this reason, there is a requirement that these broadcasts be specifically marked, soundfully and symbolically, that these broadcasts - I speak for our law - are broadcast in exactly the specified hours when it is assumed that someone at home is doing something with their children. Let me put it this way: if you have so much to say against the society that allows it, I wonder what is wrong with those parents whose children are night after night, from 24.00 to 5.00 hours, in any job, not just watching TV. From this point of view, it seems to me to be passing the burden on someone else unjustifiably. In this context, of course, it is only necessary to define the contents which are absolutely prohibited and the ways in which access to the content at issue is made more difficult. There are also no committees that you dream of, regrettably, and that you are talking about. This convinces me that you're in a prior mood against this because you believe that a ban is possible. And I, as one of the lawmakers, have been preparing the law for a long time, and I also assure you that the one who then adopted it was never meant to carry out a general prohibition. And the authentic explanation only makes it clear that when we accepted it, we didn't want to do what you think we wanted to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I give my word to a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I am closing the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation and we are moving on to a discussion on the text of an authentic interpretation. In the debate, I am putting forward an amendment to the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport, which, as the President has already said in his speech, is fully replacing the text of the interpretation. I ask who, in the framework of the time notified by the Group of Members, wants a word about the amendment. [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will decide today at 6.05 p.m. on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation and the amendment of the parent's working body. I interrupt this agenda item and at 6.05 we will move on to today's decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u211	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Good-bye to all of you. We are moving on to the vote on today's decisions. After a day of debate, we will now decide on the points on which we have discussed today, and we also have an urgent procedure and some ratifications. I'm inviting everyone into the hall. First, we'll proceed with break seven. Period of the day - third defense proposal of the residence law. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We can help ourselves with a review of the amendments, which bears the date 17.6 of the amendments is quite something. [[..]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the two amendments to Article 42. First, on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this article. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 43 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the government's amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 10 Members and Members voted against 41. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the four amendments to Article 87. We will first vote on the amendment of SDS and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups to this article. Note: If this amendment is adopted, the next three amendments become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the government's amendment to the first amendment of the LDS Club and of the United Nations, SLS and DeSUS Group to Article 87. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 43 votes against 10. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the amendment to the amendment of the four groups of Members has been adopted. We are now voting on the first amendment of the four groups. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 44 votes against 10. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and therefore the second amendment of the same motions has become irrelevant to the same Article. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to Article 90, namely the amendment of the government to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 90. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 10 votes to 40. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are also voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to this article. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing this amendment didn't get any support either. We move to a vote on the three amendments to Article 103. We first vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 11 votes against 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now voting on the government's amendment to the amendment of four parliamentary groups of positions. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We are still voting on the amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the six amendments to Article 106. We will first vote on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to this article, with a note, if this amendment is adopted, becoming the next amendment irrelevant [[the next proposer is the SDS Group of Members]] . We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That is why we are voting on the amendment, which is proposed by the SDS Group of Members. We're voting! There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 14 to 39. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That is why we are moving to a vote on the government's amendment to the first amendment of the four parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the first amendment of the four parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the second amendment of the four coalition groups. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 43 votes against 7. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of the SDS Group to Article 106. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 14. Against 38. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 141. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. It was 15 votes against 37. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment would not have been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the two amendments to Article 173. We will first vote on the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to this article. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. The vote was 11 to 43. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We vote on the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia to the same article. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 15 to 40. (For the vote was 15.)(against 40.) I take it this amendment has not been adopted either. We move to a vote on the two amendments to Article 196. We will first vote on the Government's amendment to the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats to this article. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. The vote was 43 to 13. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the amendment of the government to the amendment of the parliamentary group has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the parliamentary group to this article [[the applicant is the United List]] . We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 40 votes against 14. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I ask the Minister whether he wants a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you, Vice President. Due to the amendments adopted, or in particular those already in the second reading, editorial corrections should be made in four articles - for example, in 29, the text "under this law" should be deleted. These are four similar editorial corrections that should be adopted in the form of harmonisation amendments and are now officially to you on behalf of the Government, with the signature of the Secretary-General, I am hot. Please, if you can accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Since the law is therefore inconsistent, I interrupt this item on the agenda and ask the government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will carry out the coordination procedure tomorrow, following the last item on the agenda. We're moving on to break eight. Period of the day - with the first defensively proposed bill on the Triglav National Park. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal by the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats to postpone the debate and decision on that proposal to one of the next meetings. Please, Mr. Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u214	The proposal is: "Spend to one of the following meetings if disputed issues are resolved, if possible in September 2003." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. I am supplementing the proposed proposal with the text presented by Mr Potrč and fully corresponds to the procedural proposal we have on the table. That is how I put the text of the proposal into decision-making. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already presented their views in the afternoon part of the debate. We are therefore voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 50 votes against 10. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE OF THE FIRST AND THIRD PARAGRAPH 84. Member of the Media Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first and third paragraphs of Article 84 of the Media Act shall be adopted." I interrupt the vote to explain the vote. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will vote against this decision for two reasons. Firstly, this authentic interpretation in an unacceptable way changes the existing legal text in a non-profit way. Secondly, this explanation will not contribute to clarifying the marriage text but will result in even more contradictory concepts and conclusions. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Skolč, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u218	Of course, I will vote in favour for the diametrically contrary reasons: because our law enforcement service says that the authentic interpretation is given in an appropriate manner and in a form that we can adopt, and secondly, because the ministry, which we say is the guardian of the law, says that this authentic explanation will make fewer problems in implementing the provisions of the law, especially those provisions relating to Article 84.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, as I read it earlier. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 50 votes against 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Since the assembly adopted the proposed decision, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport to a proposal for a text of authentic interpretation, which is completely changing. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 48 votes against 11. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the expansion of the Republic of Slovenia for the credit of the public institution of the OEF, hired to complete the construction and equipment of the first phase objects, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Among us, I very much welcome the representatives of the government, and I ask the Government's representative to explain the bill further. Master Anton Zunič, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, will present a proposal. Complementary explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u220	By adopting this law, the Republic of Slovenia would be able to rent loans on favourable terms by completing the new construction and reconstruction and equipping the buildings of the first phase of the Cancer Institute up to a total of 3 billion 846 million 800,000 tolars, with corresponding interest and credit costs. The text of the law is a result of a reaction to an unforeseeable event outside the planned adopted development programmes caused by machineelom at the Institute of Oncology of Ljubljana in 2002. This is a weighty solution, which also requires appropriate financial conditions. In view of the situation, it is primarily due to the funding possibilities mentioned above that there is a commitment and a concrete financial bridge to remedy the situation in 2003 and 2004 for the period 2005 and 2006. In our view, it is the use of an appropriate instrument and, from a cost perspective, a favourable option is to provide funds by providing resources for the financing of the envisaged loan from the Ministry of Health within the budgetary resources already foreseen for 2005 and 2006. On the basis of a review of the guarantees issued in 2003, which follow the explanations of the legal proposal in relation to the total amount of the quota as set out in the envisaged guarantee, it is not expected to exceed the projected value. We therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee, President Cyril Puck, to present his position to us. Here you go, Mr. Cyril.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u223	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u224	The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered that proposal at its 46th emergency meeting. He took note of the presentation of the drafter and the opinion of the legislative and legal service. After the discussion in which the consideration of the envisaged public debt was expressed, in particular with regard to the overall expected burden of the State on the basis of the guarantees already received, it was felt that, should the situation change in view of the programmes and development plans adopted, sufficient resources should be provided from the envisaged State budget, in particular through a rebalancing. On the basis of an opinion or in terms of clarifying the individual provisions of the law, the Committee has amended all substantively important articles. This is 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th. I therefore propose that the amended proposal of the law be supported. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will first be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u226	Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen! We've heard a lot about the oncology institute, especially the one we're older, I remember before the war, and there was a misery squared. However, we do know that the patients of this type had considerable confidence in this institute. Man has always wanted things to be improved this way at this institute, so that our people, who have been enough each year, would have the best service in the world. I remember when the former ambassador of the United States visited the oncology institute. When she came out, she said with a big smile that it was a wonderful institute, and if she was sick and needed help, she would go there. That's when I asked her what they showed her or what they offered her to say. Either way, it was an interesting political-diplomatic, I'd say, success. But soon after that - well, for a while after that - the whole thing started to collapse. At the meeting of the committee, we also received the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which had problems with almost every article of this law. You would think that this could be improved a little bit, so we wouldn't have these repetitions. However, now that the matter has been corrected and as the legislative service has wanted, we have a proposal before us and, of course, we will support it. It is still a question of who decides how our public institutions will be financed. What is being done now, and the government is making a guarantee, is probably one of the options, but it is not quite clear where this loan will be taken and so on. The draft law sets out in one point that this institution will have to repay the borrowed funds itself, but has never been specified how they will acquire them; probably from the budget. In any case, I think that this law needs to be supported, and a person would like a quick way to get things moving at the Cancer Institute. I'd just like to ask you a few more questions. I know there's been a lot of fundraising going on, and I'd like to find out from this material how much was collected and where that money went. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The spatial and technical conditions for the provision of emergency health services are many times a mirror of humanity and the level of solidarity achieved by each country. The people accompanying our work rightly expect us to take into account the public expectations expressed in decision-making on social priorities, where to channel limited state resources, and investment in health care is certainly at the top of these expectations. The floods caused by the Machineeloma, which occurred in December 2002, reiterated the unsustainable spatial situation at the Oncology Institute. Similar accidents daily remind us of the necessary investments in equipment and premises in other health organisations. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law because we are aware of the problems faced by employees at the Oncological Institute in Ljubljana when they want to offer patients a health service worth a human being. A long time ago, it became clear that new facilities and modern equipment were needed for the needs of the Oncology Institute. The space situation at the Oncology Institute has been unsustainable for quite some time. The financial and construction plan was based on the condition of the facilities at the time and, of course, in accordance with the financial possibilities of the founder of the Oncology Institute. In the meantime, the situation has also deteriorated significantly as a result of the accident and the initial objective of the first phase in 2006 must be moved in 2004 in order to ensure at least minimum working conditions. This, of course, means that the funds budgeted to complete the investment only in 2006 are not sufficient to complete the investment in 2004. The proposed law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the credits of the Public Institute of Oncology, which was hired to complete the construction and equipment of the first phase of the facility, enables, in this way, the applicant to be assured, to accelerate the construction and equip the facilities of the first stage of the Institute of Oncology of Ljubljana by implementing it already in 2004. This will, however, not end the investment in the final resolution of the needs of this public institution, but will remedy the consequences of an unpredictable flood event which, of course, could not be taken into account in the development programme plan and required the transfer of the activities of the Institute to other locations. Above all, it is important that the law we are adopting today does not change the overall planned level of resources needed, only the dynamics of funding will be changed. This year, resources will be required by temporarily redistributing the resources of the budget fund for investments in public health institutions at the Ministry of Health. For 2004, however, a loan is required, which will be accepted today by the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. We are, of course, aware of the obligations of the State as the founder of a public institution in the process of accepting or providing guarantees. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! It is true, as my predecessor said, that financing health facilities is an expression of the humanity of society. I would add, however, the way these funds are provided is an expression of the government's political capacity. Why? In European countries, I will limit myself only to Western European countries, investment in health facilities and expensive diagnostic equipment is provided from the budget, the state budget or other sources, not from compulsory health insurance. This insurance is reserved for medicines, for investigations, for hospitalisation, operations and so on. With us, however, we collect funds from hospitals, the secretary may, because he will have more time available, more detailed explanations, we will certainly find again that the amount of cash that hospitals have available from compulsory health insurance, and we will meet again and again every year as an emergency, once with a pediatric clinic, now with an oncology institute and so on. We're always just putting out fires. And we know, all of these capacities are so many and so, they cost so much and so, life is 50 years or 70 years. Each year, 50 of the funds should be provided from the budget and financed on a permanent basis. It's not like we're dealing with this. I wish that 13 years after Slovenia's independence, however, investments in health care would be regulated without being saved here every time as an emergency, either in the budget rebalancing and so on. I expect that this great or great one, I don't know what it'll look like, a major health reform that we're going to get on the bench and it's foretold, will arrange that too. For the survival and functioning of the healthcare service is essential. Given that we hope that this major reform will finally address this problem, we will, of course, support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u231	Thank you very much. And the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will complement the proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for public credits from the Oncological Institute of Ljubljana, hired to complete the construction and equipment of the first phase facilities, supported. That's 3 billion 846 million 800,000 tolars. The comment will be very brief. If an accident has occurred, it must be resolved as soon as possible, and all else in Parliament is just vocabulary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. As no amendments have been tabled or adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to the third consideration of the draft law under the urgency procedure. As no third reading amendments or amendments have been tabled or adopted, amendments cannot be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. At the same time, I inform you that neither the legislative and legal services nor the government have informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We are therefore going to vote on the law. A voice explanation, just a moment to write you down. First explanation for the vote Mr Drobnic, then Mr Kebrič, Mrs Shirca. First of all, Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law with the hope that we will receive two answers from this unfortunate government. First of all, where is the money from the transfer instead of the wreaths, flowers, and what else when citizens or citizens have donated for these purposes? That's the first one. Secondly, when we do, I hope that we will once again get a balance sheet of all the guarantees and charges for all these works that the government is doing. I hope that this will continue to happen during my term of office, and in this hope I will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u235	Thank you very much. I am indeed asking that, within the framework of the institution of explanation of the parliamentary vote, the government is not being asked, because we all know exactly that the government has no right to answer this moment. Regrettably, there was no debate, just a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, because no amendments were tabled in the context of the urgent procedure at the plenary session. I'm asking you so nicely to take these facts into account. Vote explanation, Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! I'll explain my voice. Whoever's ever been to this institute, or had relatives, acquaintances, friends there, there's no question of voting for this proposal. On the other hand, if he did not have a fortunate need to visit this institute, he could have understood from the media, if he had followed the events a little bit, then there is no dilemma for this proposal. But I don't think the sentence says it's too late to die. Let us recognize that it is already significant, much too late for many. So let's not lose words. Let us vote in favour of this proposal so that the Institute and the new, better equipment can be realized as soon as possible. My fellow Members will vote in favour of such a proposal just as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Explain your voice, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u238	Thank you very much. It is true that when the word credit is heard, a number of people are upset, but in the case of the so-called intervention law that we have on the table today, it is also possible to tell today's debaters, but I am also mediating my own thinking and also justifying why I will support this law, that it is an urgent case that has not been planned. The construction of the oncology institute or the construction of the oncology institute was planned and also carried out according to plans. But it is also true that it was not a planned and planned accident, which has led to an already very long-lasting building where patients are said to have nowhere else to be. I think it is worth stressing and also in this case commending the competent ministry or government, which in this case is not only within the servicing of the emergency headquarters, which in this acute situation has been extremely meaningful and active in the search for the solutions that we now have on the table. The fact is that we will gain and rescue the situation in a somewhat shorter time than it would have been if these flood stories were not there or if we were not currently being patients or the entire health service at the cancer institute in an extremely, extremely critical situation. The only moral thing we can do today is to support this way of thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Let us therefore move on to a vote on the law. I'm calling off the vote. Vote explanation, Mr. Bernik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u240	We have not received the financial committee's report on this matter in our group and it will be difficult to vote because we do not have a text. I don't know if the rest of you got it, that's what you're gonna say.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u241	Dr. Bernick, we've all received the committee's report. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I got it. [[...]] Dr. Bernik only explained, all reports are published in two forms, this report has been published in Rapporteur No. 47 and also in computer form in Lotus Notes. This shall apply to all acts to be prepared. We are therefore going to vote on the law. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and both ministries for their cooperation. And we're moving on to 13. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on the protection of African-Eurasian migratory birds. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, whose representative does not want a word either. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bevk has the floor to present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Your Honor, I know it's a late hour, but with respect to all the speakers, I'd like to ask for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on the conservation of African-Erosionian migratory waterbirds. The Agreement was already adopted in 1996 and entered into force in 1999. As can be seen from the explanation, the agreement covers the area of 117 countries in Europe, Asia, North America and Africa. By the beginning of this year, it had been ratified by 37 countries. Ratification of the agreement means for Slovenia, as a country, the preservation of its international reputation. Ratification, however, is important not only from a political point of view but also for the protection of aquatic birds and their habitats. In Slovenia, there are more than 30 species of migratory waterbirds listed in the agreement. With regard to the agreement and, in particular, its implementation, I would like to highlight the problem of so-called fish-eating birds, which causes considerable problems and serious damage to Slovenian freshwater fisheries or, rather, water life in our rivers. Annex No 2 to that Agreement lists the types of waterbirds covered by this Agreement. Among them, the following species may be problematic from the point of view of fish - management in our rivers: shellfish, sawdust, and milkshakes. On the other hand, these birds also need to be managed or preserved. Therefore, as an integral part of the agreement, an action plan, as the third special annex to the Agreement, which provides detailed guidance for the conservation of migratory birds, whose implementation is regularly monitored and revised by the Parties, is important. The plan also requires the Parties to ensure that their hunting legislation implements the principle of sustainable application. The Parties shall also endeavour to collect information on the damage, in particular on the crops caused by those birds in the Agreement. At the same time, the Parties shall also identify appropriate ways to minimise damage or mitigate consequences by developing action plans for individual species of populations causing significant harm. That is why I believe that the explanation of the proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement completely underestimates the financial consequences of the law. According to the applicant, the amount of resources needed to implement the agreement amounts to only 5 to 8 million tolars. In addition to the fish-eating birds listed in the said agreement, more damage to fish life in our rivers is caused by cormorant and grey herrings, which are also protected by a special government regulation. Since 1997, the Fishing Union of Slovenia and individual families have regularly monitored the population of fish-eating birds. Finally, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy, which will take care of the implementation of this agreement, I ask how they will implement the action plan in terms of the problem of fish-eating birds, in particular in terms of the project of the repopulation of the Soča trout, as inventory has found that there is a whole generation of fish of 20 to 30 centimeters missing from Soča, the easiest prey of fish-eating birds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-18-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading - to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention for the Prevention of Unlawful Acts of the Safety of Maritime Navigation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which also does not want a word. Representatives of the parliamentary groups did not sign up for the debate. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading - to decide on the law. We're voting! We're voting! There are 55 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE DETERMINATION OF THE PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROMOCOLATE SAFETY TO PLASH, ESTABLISHED ON ECONCENTINENTAL DOG. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Nor does the rapporteur of the committee want to say, nor have the representatives of the parliamentary groups signed up for the debate. No amendments were adopted in the second reading, so there is no discussion on articles and amendments and we are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. We're going to the last one, that's 16. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank, Slovenia, project V. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which does not want a word, nor by representatives of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body under the second reading and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also interrupt the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
