ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u1	Mr. Secretary. I welcome it all very well, and I can smell a success, and as much as possible, have a good day. Today we will continue the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. Some of our colleagues and colleagues will be absent for excused reasons. They asked me to let you know. Colleague Ašić from 2 p.m., from 3 p.m. to Bevk, from 6 p.m. on from colleague Brenčič, from 12 p.m. to colleague Diaci and from 12 p.m. to colleague Vnučec. Today, however, colleagues from Christmas, Dr. Brejc, Germič, Horvat, Jakič, Janša, Jelinčič, Kacin, Kavčič, Peterle, Possonec and Terčon will not be fully present. When I speak of absenteeism, I would like to say that before the opening of the meeting, the Minister of State, Mr Dusan Maramor, will participate as Prime Minister of the Government, as the Minister responsible for the Resor, has asked me to kindly ask for understanding because he will be absent from the Chamber for a while and will return to her during the debate as soon as possible. So I ask the National Assembly for this understanding, otherwise it will be here at the opening and also at the conclusion of the debate when the proposal for the 2003 budget rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, I suggest we start work today. After the announcement, we have 5 hours and 11 minutes of debate and decision-making at 10. Agenda items - Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. We have decided that we will decide after the discussion is concluded, as soon as the decision is taken, the State Assembly will also decide. This means that we are going to do something a little different today than when we have a pre-planned time for debate and time for voting. However, I think it would be good for us to give a few minutes off before the decision is made, so that colleagues and colleagues who will not be in the hall can gather and decide here. When we witness the first vote, the chairman or chairman, who will then chair the meeting, will give us a few minutes' rest so that we can get our colleagues to the voting room. The draft budget balance was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, asked him to present a proposal for a rebalancing within 15 minutes and I ask him to do so now before the National Assembly. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. And you will be followed by the chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly, Comrade Pucko, for the report of the Committee. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President. You have before you the proposal to rebalance the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, together with accompanying documents. The proposal for a rebalancing follows the public financial guidelines set out in the adopted budgetary memorandum, but taking into account the changed macroeconomic environment. Allow me to place the present proposal for a rebalancing in a somewhat broader design of economic policy.It is necessary to be aware that Slovenia joins the European Union on 1 May next year, which puts new opportunities ahead of us, but also certain threats. If Slovenia is to take advantage of the opportunities offered by our EU membership and at the same time avoid these threats, it must be structurally adapted to meet the requirements of so-called nominal and real convergence with the European Union as soon as possible. Such structural changes are essential if we are to achieve the main objectives of economic policy within the EU, which is higher economic growth and lower unemployment. The alarming results of the in-depth research commissioned by the Ministry of Finance at the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana and the Economic Institute of the Faculty of Law confirm the urgency. The survey showed that the adaptability of the Slovenian economy to rapid changes in the international and domestic economic environment, we call them shocks, reached a very low level. Relatively small but very likely shocks can lead to a significant increase in unemployment and a reduction in economic growth. Fiscal policy can contribute to higher growth and lower unemployment through measures to achieve three direct objectives. First, greater flexibility of fiscal policy, secondly more flexible and competitive economy and thirdly lower inflation. I would like to introduce you to these measures, which can be divided into four groups. The first are measures to reduce the structural deficit of the budget. We must be aware that with Slovenia's entry into the European exchange rate system RM-2, we will lose our own monetary policy. Therefore, the flexibility of our fiscal policy will also depend on our response to the unexpected external and internal economic shocks. In addition, the specific public financial challenge will be the year 2004 when part of the budget revenue is to be diverted to the budget of the European Union, from which they will run back for other purposes than this year, without a very careful restructuring of budgetary expenditure, the most important programmes would be affected or the structural deficit of the budget would be greatly increased. Estimates of the current level of the structural deficit in the budget in Slovenia range between 50 and 60 billion tolars, about 1% of the gross domestic product. If we are to establish an appropriate mechanism in our public finances to react to a natural shock, then this volume of structural deficit needs to be gradually reduced and remedied in the medium term. An important step in this direction was taken by the government last week when it adopted a package of regulations for human resources and organisational rationalisation in public administration. This package clearly includes comprehensive financial rationalisation, usually called austerity measures, which the government gradually introduces in various areas. This framework also includes negotiations on wage growth in the public sector, the implementation of the government's structural deficit reduction policy, and the current proposal for a rebalancing. The government does not want to fully bear the burden of economic shock in the form of stagnation and recession abroad on an additional budget deficit, but proposes to increase the deficit by only 0.3% of gross domestic product and to harmonise the remainder of income by reducing expenditure. Decisions on amending the 2004 budget will also be extremely important. The second set of measures concerns the suspension of the increase in monetary amounts by inflation, the so-called deindexation. It is high time that in modern Slovenia we rid ourselves of the relic of the previous hyperinflation system and stop the practice of general indexing with past inflation, which in itself causes inflation mainly in the context of structural inflation. Only a complete so-called deindexation will be able to lower inflation expectations while at the same time allowing more flexible public finances and such an economy that can adapt to urgent structural changes before and after joining the European Union, such as structural changes in the coordination of controlled prices, prices of services and goods which differ in Slovenia and in the European Union, wage differences, interest rates and so on. Deindexation is therefore necessary, but the government is aware that it must be done in a way that will not, in the initial short term, affect the socially weak, with the greatest benefit in the long term being that inflation is most affected by the most socially weak. Important steps towards deindexation have already been taken by abolishing the indexation in accounting, by abolishing the basic interest rate [[TOM]] , by prohibiting indexation clauses in contracts concluded by the State, through a social agreement that no longer binds so-called wage escalation to inflation in Slovenia, but to three components: inflation in the European Union, to the rate of tolar and inflation in Slovenia. Further activities are also under way. The next set of measures concerns tax reform. It is also essential to achieve a more flexible and competitive economy. A comprehensive tax reform must primarily achieve a relative burden on labour taxation and increase the tax burden on capital, while a more equitable and transparent tax system that will promote productive investment and allow for faster growth should be adapted to the European Union. In the final stages of preparation, there is a series of laws, and the first one the government has already sent into procedure. The fourth set of measures concerns the reduction of inflation. The fulfilment of the Maastricht inflation criterion is not only important for the early entry into the European exchange rate system RM-2 and the adoption of the euro, but lower domestic inflation can significantly contribute to the competitiveness of our export sector. The government has therefore set itself an ambitious goal of reducing the inflation rate in close coordination with the Bank of Slovenia to around 4% by the end of 2004 and following this objective through a series of measures. We adapt excise duties to oil derivatives prices in order to prevent temporary excessive fluctuations; we set controlled prices according to or below targeted inflation; we better regulate monopolies and them where we can eliminate them. We are also gradually eliminating the indexation, as I have already mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I believe that the National Assembly will support our structural efforts and actively engage in the preparation of these measures, which will allow Slovenia to so-called soft landings in the European Union, the European exchange rate system RM-2 and finally in the euro area during this crucial period. The present proposal for a rebalancing is in this context a meaningful instrument of economic policy and a step towards ensuring a better and more flexible structure of the Slovenian budget. The reasons for him are well known. The macroeconomic situation has changed significantly since the preparation and adoption of the budget to date. First of all, this applies to our main external trading partners. If the November forecasts of gross domestic product growth for Germany were 1.3%, the forecast was halved by February this year and the June forecast further decreased 0.2% in the fights. Similarly, the growth forecast for the entire euro area fell from 1.7% in November 2002 to 0.4% today. Global markets have also seen an increase in oil prices, whose average annual price is higher than originally planned for $2.8. Such a changed international environment has had an essential impact on the relationship at home in Slovenia. In addition to lower export growth rates, instead of 5.7%, only 54%, companies are logically more cautious about new investments. The May forecast of investment growth in fixed assets is only 3.2%, while the autumn forecast was still 4.8%. General economic uncertainty also leads to a reduction in population spending, with a large share of the revenue earmarked for the repayment of debts incurred prior to the entry into force of the value added tax. The latest growth forecast for personal consumption is below 0.7% in autumn and is only 2%. The reasons for the 2003 budget rebalancing are a reduced forecast of economic growth, which could not be foreseen at the time of preparation and adoption, with a new figure of 3.1% for 2003. The lower economic growth, however, is estimated to mean that the budget revenue of 28.2 billion tolars will be lower than planned. Approximately half of the reduced revenue goes to tax revenue and the other half to tax revenue. The maximum reduction in tax revenues is foreseen for a value added tax of 9 billion dollars, as a result of lower domestic consumption, lower imports and exports. For around 11 billion, income from income, payroll and social security contributions will be lower due to lower expected wage growth and lower employment growth. However, revenues from corporate income tax will increase by around 13 billion tolars as a result of increased business profits and last year's changes in accounting standards. In particular, the revenues from the assets will be reduced due to the market situation of telecommunications services, which will not allow the planned revenues from concessions to be realised and the expected revenues from fees and charges will be lower. The expected interest income is also lower as we anticipate such a fall in interest rates that would allow for the simultaneous repayment and restructuring of government debt with a favourable net effect of interest income and expenditure. In the face of adverse circumstances in the external markets, the 2003 budget was further burdened: a Constitutional Court decision requiring an increase in the expenditure on national authorities' salaries of 7 billion tolls and a transfer of the outstanding outstanding liabilities of the previous year of 7.8 billion tolars due to last year's unforeseeable loss of tax revenues due to lower spending. The potential increase in the budget deficit would therefore amount to 43 billion dollars, but the government, through the preparation of the rebalancing, does not only want to increase the deficit but has decided to combine a partial increase in deficits and partial reductions and partial restructuring of budget expenditure. The government does not further influence economic growth reduction by selectively reducing budgetary spending and by increasing the budgetary deficit. The increase in the budget deficit by 15.7 billion tolars or 0.3% of gross domestic product is in line with the calculations on the long-term sustainability of the public financial situation in Slovenia. At the same time, after the budget rebalancing, we have maintained a 15 billion-dollar fiscal stabiliser guard in case the economic situation deteriorates unexpectedly by the end of this year. At the same time, in line with the policy of more flexible public finances, we are also interfering with the structure of the budget on the expenditure side, which we intend to continue in amending the 2004 budget and in the 2005 draft budget. The Government believes that the proposal for a rebalancing represents to the greatest extent a reduction in expenditure where it does not jeopardise the implementation of planned policies and priorities. After an expected decrease of 28.2 billion tolars, expenditure is reduced by 12.5 billion tolars, while the cyclical deficit, as I have already said, increases by 15.7 billion tolars. The most important types of expenditure reduction are: expenditure on purchase and construction of basic funds for state authorities of 4.8 billion, expenditure on goods and services of government authorities of 3 billion tolars, investment transfers of 2.2 billion tolars, transfers to individuals and households of 1.4 billion tolars and subsidies of 10 billion tolars. Dear Members and Members! In the Government's view, the proposed budget balance is an appropriate response to the changed economic situation and I ask you to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Marble. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was addressed in the National Assembly by the committee responsible for finance and monetary policy. Mr President of the Committee, Comrade Pucko, will present a brief report on the Committee's findings and then we will go to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u4	Mr President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy held an appropriate general discussion on the balance sheet and on specific parts of the budget. In this regard, according to the applicant's introductory explanations, which are the reasons for the adoption or presentation of the proposal for a rebalancing, we have paid the highest attention to the following questions. First time. An exceptional increase in tax debt in the period 2000/2003 and in the Government’s or the Ministry of Finance’s plan and strategy to address this problem, or to improve the situation in this area; the projected reduction of funds, specific budgetary reserves and assistance programmes in the event of accidents, and in this context the adequacy of the budget resources to finance the earthquake recovery of Poča, as well as the effects of the drought already affecting certain areas in Slovenia, the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, when the public finances situation will be more favourable than the expected situation in 2004/2005, the position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the effects of the decision to change the amount of external debt from the US dollar in euro and the position of the Ministry of Finance on the acceptability of an increase in the public financial deficit in the event of the use of a fiscal stabiliser. It was clear from the Committee's debate that, during the difficult period that we are looking forward to in 2004, and also in 2005, we must urgently, seriously restructure budget expenditure and ensure more flexible public finances that by 2007 we will no longer have a structural deficit in line with the European Union guidelines and that the budget will even show a slight surplus. The most difficult will be to achieve European level in the public financial area in 2007 in the coming year and with appropriate adjustments to the budget structure. There is no doubt, however, that Slovenia is in a much better position to address these problems than other candidate countries. The Committee on Finance then gave particular attention to the issue of the intervention law on drought this year. According to the Ministry of Finance, the proposed reallocation of funds in the current budget reserve, taking into account the fact that spending is flexible, will enable this issue to be resolved. In the context of the discussion on individual parts of the specific part of the proposed balance sheet, in accordance with Article 166(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee has set up an amendment providing, within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the necessary resources of EUR 349 million to enable the implementation of basic tasks in forests which could not be implemented without these additional resources. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I propose that we adopt the proposed balance after the discussion together with the above-mentioned amendment of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board, colleague Pucko. We will now hear representatives of all the parliamentary groups first. Then we will start by discussing the individual parts of the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing, where all of you, colleagues and colleagues, will be able to participate. We will first hear the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Dr Andrej Bajuk will present it. He's going to be followed by a fellow magician. Visjak, for the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I'll be asking for peace and attention in the hall all the time. Dr. Bayuk has the only word right now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome all representatives of the government, especially the Ministry of Finance, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The 2003 budget rebalancing. Why do we need a balance? We need a rebalancing because our government has discovered that the revenues that we were expecting when we discussed and adopted this budget will be reduced by 28.2 billion tolars. The consequence of this is partly a reduction in expenditure by 12.5 and an increase in the deficit from 54.8 billion to 70.6. Of course, that's how it is for now. First of all, I would like to draw attention to one fact that has been recognised in the dossiers, but it has not been so clearly explained here in this National Assembly that this is partly the case, because it affects 2003 certain things that happened in 2002. According to the government, 7.8 billion outstanding liabilities remained outstanding in 2002. You can read this on page 36 8. The rapporteur and 1.7 billion additional payments following a decision by the Constitutional Court, to be covered by the 2003 budget. The budget deficit was thus too low for 2002 according to the government's data of the majority of 9.5 billion. I remind you of what actually happened in 2002, we do not know yet, that we will get to the National Assembly there once in October of the month with the final invoice for 2002. But I'm warning you, we don't know what the whole picture is. Last time we watched and considered in this National Assembly the final account for 2001, we discovered that there is still some constant tendency of the ruling authority in our country to frustrate data, because otherwise it cannot be said as such. Surely you remember that the then Minister of Finance and now the Prime Minister of the Government changed the accounting guidelines and showed a deficit of 20.5 billion less than he would have actually been. This is not just a finding by the opposition, it was a finding by the Court of Auditors, and this is what this National Assembly was informed about. And let's go to the essential question of why and where they went down, or whether they're going to go down in 2003. It is important to mention that the opposition has already warned when we debated and discussed the 2003 budget, that, according to our revenue assessment, they were deliberately inflated, that a beautiful image has been shown, which has now proved to be the case in part. The revenue of our budget has three strong resources: the strongest are tax revenues, and then the capital revenues are non-taxable. The interesting thing is that tax revenues are expected to fall by about 1% and tax revenues by 11.4% and capital revenues by 44.7%. Let us see why our incomes are falling. The government explains to us - and this is in explanation - that on the basis of the new macroeconomic forecasts of the UMAR, which is the first cause and secondly the realization of revenue in 2002. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in vain of this proposal for a rebalancing document, you will be looking for documentation where all this has happened, what is the actual situation in 2002, but we can always help Members with the data on the Ministry of Finance's websites. Let me tell you, for the first time, that of all these revenues that will be reduced or expected to fall to 28.2 billion, half of them come from tax revenues. This half, 12.6 billion, 1% of all, is mainly a decrease of 7.5% of income, an increase of 15% of corporate income tax - this is understandable and also expected, because when the budget is planned, it is very difficult to know in advance what the actual profits will be, and that is the profits of legal persons, legal persons have to report there around the month of March, which is why the government today takes this into account. Social security contributions are then reduced. In doing so, I would like to point out - although this does not have a major impact on the final numbers, but it only shows what the approach is, I would say, the averageness, according to my household, I would call it'slamparia' because, of course, there is no explanation. Social security contributions - it is interesting that a person would only expect at least there between the contributions of employees and employers to maintain what the law says this proportion. But there is no such proportion. Social security contributions to employees are reduced by 1.3% and employers by 0.47, according to only one third of this as employees. This is unclear, and although we have asked for an explanation, we have not yet received it. They reduce by 3.8% taxes on the payroll and labour force, and the expected reductions in property taxes are four-fifths, which is also expected to occur in the expected increase in VAT. With VAT alone, again we expect it to be smaller, almost 9 billion again. I have repeatedly warned myself about this and I think that this source is still an open issue that has not been resolved, and especially in the area of administration or administration, how we manage this tax. Most interestingly, though, that taxes on special services are reduced by about 2.4 billion and 11%, and there is no explanation for that, the government's spending is expected to be maintained as planned. Other taxes on the use of goods and services, however, are reduced by one fifth, almost 18 percent and a few percent, by 1.6 billion. If we take all of this together, and given that corporate income taxes increase by 13 billion, then the net effect on tax revenues is only 12.6. The structure is changing. There is no explanation; in fact, the explanation is only one page, one page in the document that we have and are now considering. Of course, it explains a lot about how things have changed in the world, but what is changing in us, in Slovenia, is only one side. Non-trading income. In the case of non-tax revenue, there is a fall of 11%, in the case of tax 1%, and this is 11%. Of course, it is increasing strongly by 3.6 billion, by 16%, the income on participation from the profits of dividends from public enterprises, public funds and public financial institutions. This is also comprehensible on the basis of these data as well as the higher incomes or profits of private legal persons. However, the interesting thing is that the revenue from participating in the dividends of other companies in financial institutions is virtually falling by 99%. There's no explanation for that, we predicted 1 billion 3, the fall is 12.8, it's virtually gone, it's only 14.8 million left. To reduce interest income, we've already heard, that was expected. And the income from the property falls to 6.1 by 3.5 for just over one third of the 9.6 billion we predicted. However, it is interesting to note that in the period January: March 2003, this is said in the first quarter of this year, on the basis of data from the Ministry of Finance, more than 50 % of everything was expected at the time of the budget. We were expecting $42.6 million, but we get 21.3. There is no explanation for how it will now be reduced so strongly by the end of the year. There are also insufficient reasons why the government expects taxes and charges to be reduced by 10%, by 9.4, judicial fees by 10 and administrative fees and charges by 9%. On the question that we have asked Mr Finance Minister on the Committee, I must say that the Minister has explained to us what the procedure is like, how is our Ministry of Finance doing? That is, that they have a double approach, on the one hand model, that is to say, there are some mathematical models that allow this to be calculated and, on the other hand, a very detailed analysis of a particular tax. I have no reason not to believe that they've done this now. But there is a question of what they did when they brought us this budget. And we still feel that we are always working in this area so that if any elections are near, we can see a pink image and then correct it with a balance. Such an approach to public finances is very negative for our common good, and I only expect that the time will come for us to deal with this problem, how we deal with our public finances, and the relationship between the national assembly and the government to be really what our constitutional order foresees. It is also worrying that the fines will fall, and we predict that they will fall by 6.2 per cent. They're very likely to fall. Then why did we set them up so high when one pink budget had to be presented? Income from goods and services falls by one third. What's the government's explanation? Here I quote: "In view of the current process of selling basic assets in accordance with the State's real estate sale plan, we cannot foresee the implementation of the original intended objectives..." and so on. The interesting thing is, if you look at the Ministry of Finance data for the first quarter, you find that the average for the first three months actually fell by about 10 percent a month. Why do we assume that this decline will suddenly change by 32.9 percent for the whole year 2003, but there is no explanation? Other non-tax revenues fall by 12 percent. Then we come to the capital. Capital revenues, which are also an important source of revenue in this budget, our public finances, are projected to fall 44.7 per cent. Since the sale of the basic assets, 65.8 percent. Two thirds less. However, land sales revenues increase by 135 percent. Whoever's planning what they're planning, why they're changing, doesn't explain it in this document. And finally another question that I always ask, and I will always ask it on behalf of all those who believe that the rule of law is the necessity of our time. It's a tax debt. Today, we know in this national assembly, based on the data already sent by the government, that the tax debt has increased by more than 100 per cent between 2000 and 2003. On the question of why and how we always get the answer, the typical response of the ruling coalition and this is an international comparison, 'because in other countries it is even worse, because we are still on average.' But one wonders, and we have to ask, whether such answers, surely you remember, the real response of the Prime Minister on corruption, since it is even worse elsewhere. Such answers either mean or not that our government has already come to terms with this fact. What can we deal with? It is at this very moment when the Minister rightly reminds us that we are going to a difficult time, where we must all be very well aware that the flexibility of our economy is the challenges of the outside world, that we need measures and such hard measures, we must ensure that everyone is equal before the law. If this Slovenian government does not guarantee equality before the law, especially before tax laws, it is bad for us to deal with problems that are already clearly on the horizon. As far as income is concerned, which is the main source of this balance, we cannot shake off this feeling that we have to deal with toys, numbers in this National Assembly, not say that the current toy, but I cannot conclude otherwise that those who have been sent to us are, but certainly are. Now, there's something else about spending. Based on the proposed amendments to the law on the implementation of the budget, which we will also deal with later, there is still an unrealistic need for budgetary spending in the rebalancing. The government reduces the expenditure on interest payments, domestic and foreign payments, domestically from 51.8 billion to 50.2 and foreign interest from 32.99 to 32.98, i.e. total by 1.7 billion. On the other hand, Article 21a of the Law on the implementation of the budget provides for this, and I quote: "that interest exceeding the envisaged spending rights in the balance sheet may also be paid above this amount, either with higher revenues than planned or with additional indebtedness to that fiscal stabiliser." Higher interest than planned can also be expected due to the strengthening of the euro rate against the dollar. In this regard, it is particularly important to note that the Slovenian Government, without the national assembly knowing it, transferred the entire debt to abroad in 2001 to the euro, thus tying the entire exchange rate risk to the euro, which, in our opinion, was reckless at the very beginning of the common European currency and also in contravention of the basic principle of public debt management, which states that the risk must be dispersed. Currently, according to the situation in the last quarter of 2002, our debt to abroad for strengthening the euro can be increased by 12% to 15%. A similar finding applies to an ongoing transfer to a pension institution that decreases from 228 billion to 227 in the balance sheet. However, Article 21a of ZIPRA also provides for the possibility of possible additional transfers to be borne by a fiscal stabiliser. The structure of all changes in spending rights shown by economic categories on page 13, Rapporteur, number 36, is misleading in our assessment, because it comes not from the budget received, but from the current budget, i.e. from the figures provisionally determined by the government before the rebalancing. However, the balance sheet is an act which must be compared only to the budget adopted. The balance is based on what this national council has already decided. It is true that we allow a measure of flexibility to the government in the law on the implementation of the budget. And that's right. But where is the limit between flexibility and the will of executive power? This border must be determined by this national assembly. This is not my job or one member of the opposition, but the National Assembly must determine it. And this has already been laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget. However, this, and this will be the subject of a debate when we talk about the implementation of the budget, the law for the implementation of the budget, this national assembly has already decided to increase further. It is therefore necessary to be aware in this National Assembly that if we compare all of this data on the basis of the budget adopted, this is to say what this National Assembly has allowed and ordered the executive to reduce current expenditure from 433 billion to 431 billion or 1.6 billion. Of this, salaries and contributions increase by 3.3 billion, employers' contributions increase by 100 million, goods and services expenditure decrease by 1.1 billion, while the budget reserve decreases from 7.1 to 4.9 also current transfers and others. Time has run out, I'll come by, and I'll add other things when the time comes, especially the time of the Group of Members. However, I would like to point out that at the time of the expenditure, we also have the "freezing" of the data in an unacceptable way, and I will point to you later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. The position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members will now be presented by a colleague of mags. Andrej Vizjak, behind him colleague Podobnik, first of all the Group of the Social Democratic Party and colleague Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we were looking forward to this rebalancing, although I must say that we have been expecting it in the autumn months, and it is now clearly a practice to rebalance the budget twice a year. I hope that's not the way it's gonna be. I am convinced that the reason for the rebalancing is not only a deterioration of the macroeconomic environment or a reduction in the economic growth forecast, but that it is only a cause. The causes are deeper, the causes of this rebalancing and also for certain financial problems are in the non-implementation or economic policy led by Drnovškov and now by the government of Robov in the last ten years, since it has not taken part in some of the necessary systemic changes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u9	Just a minute, mate mag. A visor. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm gonna ask you once again to do this in such a discreet way that they don't disturb the speaker. Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u10	has not carried out the necessary reforms in the financial area and has stabilised this sector in order to ensure some normal possibility, both public finance planning and budgeting. [[...]] There have now been changes in the outlook for economic growth, which are conditional and which are due to some external situation, including the European situation, but this is not the reason for this balance, this is only the reason that this has to be done a little faster than it would have been. Why am I talking about some systemic changes that we have not experienced or that cause problems? Because I think it is virtually unacceptable for us in the country of Slovenia to have at a time when there is considerable economic growth, which we like to boast, even comparatively, in relation to other countries, that we always and always benefit from the deficit during this period. The deficit is almost to the limit, and other flexible forms allowing this deficit to be increased rather than reducing deficits or surpluses during economic growth. However, when the situation changes when the situation gets a little bit worse, then this deficit, which is already relatively large economic growth, relative to other countries, is only increasing and the expenditure is shrinking due to reduced incomes which are countercyclically oriented and are investment expenditure. And that, I think, is wrong, and in the opinion of the Social Democratic Party, does not lead to the normal functioning of public finances. What's systemically wrong? I'm sure it's tax legislation. Given the comparable countries of the European Community, some tax burdens are unevenly distributed. Today, we do not have a real estate tax, which would especially tax what is a luxury or something above the basic need for every citizen. This property tax legislation has already been announced by the government, which is now in some amended form, in the coalition contract. We have not seen this until today, and I doubt we will see it in this mandate. The abnormally low are taxes on the profits of legal persons. Second, however, we have a substantial, substantially overtaxed labour force, a taxable salary and the like. The imbalance in this area shows some inadequate regulation of the tax area. Not to mention the tax debt which is practically ineligible and the reports of the rapporteur of the National Assembly give a very interesting conclusion as to why some tax debt has not been recovered in specific cases. Often, there is also inactivity or non-professional relations between tax authorities and other state administrations. The system legislation in the field of concessions, which could - and this will also continue to - bring a more favourable solution in this financial area, is in bandages, it is not. It is correct to point out that unfortunately, as a result of the constant adjustment of expenditure with reduced revenue, it is mainly due to some poor or non-implementation of reforms in the financial sector and not only to changes and the deterioration of the macroeconomic environment, such as Europe, the world and, consequently, Slovenia. If we take a closer look at this budget balance, we can see that everything we see today has already been expected from the 2003 updated budget. The current decline in economic growth and the situation in the foreign and domestic markets will, in our view, require further adjustments to the budget by the end of the year. Investment expenditure for investment investments totaling 11% of total expenditure, i.e. 7.4 billion Slovenian tolars, of which 5.9 billion investment expenditure and 1.5 billion Slovenian tolars, are the most reduced in the balance sheet. Current expenditure and current transfers, which together account for 64% of total expenditure, are reduced by 5.2 billion and in this subsidy by as much as 1.9 billion Slovenian tolars. Such a rebalancing is therefore undeveloped and, given the budget adopted, cannot work counter-cyclically. This is also the basic criticism of this rebalancing that, in the wake of the clear announcement by the then Minister for Finance, that we must increase economic growth and act counter-cyclically in particular with State investments, this is, unfortunately, undermines and shows the correctness of my predecessor, Dr. Bajuk, when he says that it is easier to promise investments in the pre-election period than it is after the election time to make them. However, unrealistic budgetary planning on the spending side is highlighted in particular by data or changes in possible additional debt, it is said, this so-called flexible stabiliser, and of course in the debt of the other public sector. It is clear from the balance sheet that the debt sustainability of the other public sector is increased, with the government stating that the claims are even higher. This gives the possibility of additional indebtedness to the Slovenian Railway Agency, the Health Insurance Agency, the State Road Company and the Slovenian Compensation Society. This additional debt actually largely means covering up the current budget deficit and covering up the budgetary deficit under the Maastricht criteria, which is particularly worrying when Slovenia enters the European Community. I would like to draw attention to those areas where, according to our assessment of expenditure, the most unjustifiable reductions have been made. I would like to draw attention to investment investments in hospitals - for 430 million Slovenian tolars; investment and investment maintenance in secondary education for a billion Slovenian tolars; co-financing of municipal environmental infrastructure for 100 million; rehabilitation of beaches of great importance for 300 million Slovenian tolars; support for education for 155 million; and cultural programmes for 461 million tolars. Not to mention in particular the Ministry of Agriculture, where the agricultural and food reform programme is one billion Slovenian tolars. At the time of the forecasts, when this budget is established, I do not think that we should be able to afford such radical changes to certain budgetary users. I would mention in particular the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, where certain expenditure is very worrying, particularly when we are talking about implementation, about the social protection programme, which is falling by 600 million Slovenian tolars. And Slovenia has enshrined in the Constitution that the social state will be, and we have adopted in the past period a reform and amendment of social protection laws, and in this reform have promised that this will raise the social level, of course, is now reflected in a rebalance that reflects some legal obligation that this money will be considerably less than budgeted. In short, 600 million at the expense of the implementation of the social protection programme. I would also like to highlight a discount of 442 million tolar for parental benefits, 50 million tolar. With the coming, also announced by the minister, the period when some increase in employment is not expected, this is said to be an earlier increase in unemployment, the transfers to the unemployed decrease by a quarter of a billion. Of course, this represents only 1 per cent of the estimated mass for these purposes, but I consider that this is not the right source. From what I have said, I would conclude that such a rebalancing does not reflect some careful selectivity in reducing expenditure, but rather a considerable amount of muscular display, forcing the need to reduce expenditure somewhere. I think that our country should pay much more attention to the revenue side, in particular to the revenue side, that the tax burdens will be distributed in a European comparable way and that they will spare the social and wealthiest layers. Of course, we will not support such a balance in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you, Comrade Master Vizjak, for presenting the views of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. The views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will now be presented by Comrade Podobnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you, President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, headed by the minister, Dr. Marble! In Europe, it is believed that somehow key political decisions are created by two political blocs. One is social-democratic and the other is conservative. The Liberals are invited here to participate in the creation of key political economic social decisions of the European Union. A respected colleague Vizjak has just presented a social-democratic model. I'd like to introduce the conservative myself. It must be said, however, that the current government coalition contains all three, social-democratic or socialist, conservative and also liberal. That may be the case with this great splendor. For in the end it is necessary for a model to prevail. Eternal compromises ultimately create problems. The Slovenian People's Party's Group, this time in my person, is speaking for the third time in this place today about the 2003 budget. At first, we had papers in the context of a two-year budget on the table, then we completed the budget and today we are adopting a rebalancing. My performance today can only be the continuation of positions from a year and a half ago, from a half and from today's situation. We are aware that for several years the government has faced and is still facing a complex situation in the area of public finances. On the one hand, we must recognise its good intentions in finding more stable conditions, especially by introducing a two-year adoption of the state budget. And today, I repeat, on the other hand, this creation of public finances and budgets in Slovenia began during an inappropriate period of global economic recession when gross domestic product is constantly falling or stagnant. Such a period is a very inappropriate environment for stabilising this sector. As we have said, we have talked about this throughout the adoption of state budgets, and we have also warned with very direct words about the government's over-optimism in forecasting economic growth, which is the basis for assessing the level of budgetary resources. In the synthetic document, which we received today in the form of some data on the bench by the Ministry of Finance, the very symbolic last page is the one that speaks of a deteriorating macroeconomic environment. When we had the draft budget of 2002, 2003 a projection was made to increase gross social product by 4.5% this year. When we adopted this budget after a few months, we wrote 4.3. In the Memorandum of 3.4 we reduced to 3.7. The UMAR autumn report spoke on 3.7. He's talking about 3.1 this year. Most recent forecasts include Banka Slovenije and some others say it is realistic to expect it to fall below 3%. These are real facts. At the same time, private consumption, from 4% after this year's forecast, is already decreasing by 100%, i.e. to 2%. And that's why we have a national budget rebalancing ahead of us. And also a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget. Both documents are very linked. Our view is that it would be necessary to give very serious thought to whether the government would break with the practice of adopting two-year state budgets. Under such macroeconomic conditions, the meaning of these is much smaller, and so a well-designed system of stabilisation of public finances becomes a contradiction. The second objective of the government is to make a substantial contribution to reducing inflation through the state budget. To this end, it has the full support of the Slovenian People's Party. In our party, we have supported all the efforts made so far by the Finance Minister to stop the indexation in the financial system. We regret that his proposal has not received the support of the entire government and the coalition. We're afraid that time will show that we missed the optimum moment. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also support the freezing of parliamentary salaries, particularly at a symbolic level. However, we expect the government to propose new wage management mechanisms in the public sector as soon as possible. We are still firmly convinced that a single mechanism for harmonising wages, transfers and pensions needs to be put in place, which, together with the completion of the pension reform and the reform of the financing of the health system, will begin to function normally and will no longer cause new deficits in the state treasury and deficits in the pension and health treasury. It is no longer just a matter of reducing inflation, which is the main motive of the government for proposing current restrictive measures in the state budget. A much more important motive is the reform of public finances, as well as the gradual reform of all social systems that have remained halfway and still remain during the transition to the market economy. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that such reforms must only be carried out on the basis of serious substantive reforms of all social systems, but they must eliminate the patterns of expectations and behaviour that some have left behind from the period of previous social and economic regulation. Such reforms should be based on greater ownership of transfer recipients and on a more market-oriented orientation of actors implementing state policies in all areas of the social state. The ministries - and here they have our support - must do much more rational and efficient work and propose where they can replace expensive payment of services with cheaper and more competitive ones on the market. In this place, I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, of our performance when we voted for the current government team six months ago. At that time, I recalled our expectation that the proposed Minister of Finance, Prof. Marble, would be perhaps a key figure in the new ministerial team, around which a credible political-economic-social programme would be established, in which Slovenian citizens and citizens would be entrusted. And that's when I told him that when he's in trouble, he can rely on the Slovenian People's Party. Some problems have already occurred to him, and we supported him and support him in his efforts. In our view, deindexation, as proposed by the Minister of Finance, is the key to the final financial stabilisation of the social sector. And it is our belief that the future is based on wage coordination in the public sector, pensions, subsidies and all other social transfers with the growth of living costs, or on the upwards of public sector wages with the annual growth of gross social product. Old human wisdom is that you can only sing what you create; if you sing more, you owe yourself. And when you invite people to just eat what they created, you have to do it yourself. That is also why some of the missed moves that have been made in recent years within the government have been a poor traveller when the government negotiated with the unions. Some of the moves involved in this unfortunate purchase of government aircraft were at least part-time cancellations. As it is said, the balance is also linked to the law on the implementation of the budget, but our view of this law will be referred to the next item on the agenda. I would like to conclude by saying that the Slovenian People's Party's Group, as a government coalition parliamentary party, will support the proposed budget balance. We estimate that some of the government's efforts related to the reform of public finances are in line with our programming positions. However, we are aware that it takes time, a great deal of political courage and internal peace in the government coalition to carry them out. We only hope that these moves will not turn into crevices at a place that would unwittingly lead us into a more serious economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik, for presenting the position of the SLS Group. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party will be presented by colleague Igor Štemberger. First, my colleague Štemberger and the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Budget rebalans are clearly becoming a regular point of meetings of the National Assembly. We adopted the 2003 budget changes in December, and even six months have not passed since we are re-editing the 2003 budget. We are already seriously wondering what the purpose of adopting two-year budgets is, if the budget does not last for one year within the envisaged framework of revenue and expenditure. The budget we have adopted for 2004 is worth as much as nothing, as no budgetary user can rely on the fact that the amounts of revenue and expenditure foreseen in its items are being auctioned and that they can also be realised. We already know that before the end of the year we will also be correcting this budget, it is very likely that next year we will also have its rebalancing on the tables. Clearly, the 2003 budget is no exception and economic indicators, which are the basis for the level of revenue, have been again over-set despite the opposition's warning. These are usually unrealistically optimistic, especially with regard to this year’s situation when we are at home and in the world in recession. Today's rebalancing proposed by the government includes spring forecasts of economic growth and is likely to be lower than current forecasts, especially if the country is seriously trying to lower inflation. Obviously, it is already a practice for us to prepare the budget each year on the basis of the expected expenditure and then the government adjusts the revenue to this expenditure. How else can we explain that each year, at the time of the rebalancing, we find that the economic indicators are not as high as they were announced at the time of last year's budget change? However, the government forgets that the spring forecast for economic indicators also presents a so-called pessimistic scenario, according to which economic growth is expected to be only 2.7%, in the event of a slow recovery of the European economy and an increase in oil prices. As these have been growing again lately, this pessimistic scenario is much more likely. What will the government do in this case, if we re-evaluate the budget in the autumn of the re-calculations, is the third time. The government, as the reason for the failure to implement the expected revenues, is mainly responsible for reducing the consumption of the population and reducing imports and lower consumption of the country; in fact, all the projected economic development indicators have decreased The planned growth in exports of goods and services decreased by 0.3 per cent, according to the government, mainly due to the slow recovery of economic growth in our most important trading partners. In particular, economic growth, particularly in the future, will be affected by the reduction of investment, both in the economy and in the private sector. Investments will decrease by 1.6 per cent, which is particularly worrying. The decrease in private sector investment is certainly conditioned by lower employment growth in 2002 and the indicators for this year are also not encouraging. The only indicator that does not change is the rate of forecast inflation. And it seems that the goal is to maintain inflation within the envisaged limit subordinated to the whole functioning of the country. To adopt a price-setting plan - the government prevents rising oil and oil derivatives prices by lowering excise duties and, most importantly, the government is preparing new mechanisms for harmonising wages and social benefits. This is logical if it is to achieve the desired goal, because wages and interest represent a large proportion of the budget because the government has bought social peace in the past by increasing public sector wages. Last year, the government praised the 2003 budget with high indices in the fields of education, social policy, scholarships and the like. Today, however, it can be found at the time of the rebalancing that it was holding a fig tree in its pocket, as funds for the construction of student homes are now falling, funds for scholarships for teaching professions, youth centres, youth accommodations and similar items that are of priority to our client. That is why we have tabled amendments to the proposal for a budget rebalancing. We are interested in what this concept is drawn up by the government in the field of education if universities are considering the gradual introduction of tuition for regular studies. In the Young Slovenia Party, it is recalled that in these areas spending limitation is harmful and unnecessary. In the context of the rebalancing, the government would be expected to give up some kind of missed investment and irrational spending, but unfortunately, in any of these years, the government has not given up a large number of rebalancings, such as the purchase of a famous aircraft. The country is obviously spending more than it has, and such budgets and their rebalansiboda to future young generations have left too much of a burden. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will not support the proposal for a rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Štemberger presented the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by a colleague of Peče. Then we have the presentations of three more parliamentary groups, and the transition to a debate. First of all, a colleague of Peca for the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! The purpose of the Slovenian National Party is not only but only the political criticism of public finances, the budget and the rebalancing, but in particular our debate will go in the direction of demands for more responsible and clearer work in the field of public finances. Unfortunately, structural changes occur in Slovenia during this period, in negative form. The fact is that these negative forms or structural changes are not recognised by the government in negative form. Personally, however, I believe that every citizen and citizen feels it.In fact, unemployment is increasing, structural imbalances are increasing, gross social product is decreasing and economic growth is declining at the end of the day. The fact is that the Slovenian government always and exclusively sees the culprit for the situation on the domestic market or in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, international event, crisis, war and similar things. The fact is that this is a very bad excuse that this is an excuse that Slovenians should not deserve. What is the minister's goal? The aim of the Minister of Finance is to make a soft landing in the European Union. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we express our fear and sincerely hope that fear will come across the service within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the only one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u17	Can you turn off mobile phones that interfere with your work? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u18	as the only one who has the right to set public finances in our country. [[...]] That Slovenia will have a bankruptcy manager within the European Union in the next few years. The fact is that Slovenia will not meet the convergence criteria. And the fact is, unfortunately, the Slovenian government misrepresents basic financial instruments or indicators. We are also afraid that the spread of social strata in our country will increase, and thorapid downwards. On the other hand, we also estimate that all these consequences will be felt most by those who represent the active population. Unfortunately, I believe and express the fear that in the next eight years, in this country, we will have to extend our working time to manage public finances among others. The fact is, the government will have to come up with this proposal as soon as possible. Otherwise, the balance sheet is the best indicator for the state of public finances in our country. Tone Rop, former Minister of Finance, said when adopting the basic act of the 2003 budget in October 2001, "this time's proposal - I am talking about a budget that we are already amending today - this proposal is particularly important because the government is first coming before the two-year budget assembly for two years, with the adoption of two budgets, will be included among those few countries in Europe and the world that have actually managed to implement longer-term expenditure and revenue planning." From the words given by the Minister of Finance, we see that unfortunately the Government of Liberal Democracy or the Slovenian government is only running a one-day policy. It runs a policy to make certain decisions that do not take place in the future. Because, once again, I stress the fact that Slovenian finances are in an unenviable position. It is also a fact that government projections on the budget deficit are missing. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Tone Rop represented during the period when we adopted the budget, that in 2002 the budget deficit would be 50 billionaires of 0.98 GDP, and in 2003 it fell to 48 billion, and in the following year it would reach as much as 32.4 billion. But the fact is, in the first half of this year, all the amounts the government has predicted will even begin to fall. And the result of this increase is today's rebalancing. In the 2003 budget, we were assured that the deficit would be 54.7 billion Slovenian tolars. They took a reserve in a so-called financial stabiliser. So, of course, we have exceeded both the financial stabiliser and the projected deficit. I am saying this because I estimate that such forecasts by the Slovenian government are losing credibility or that the entire Slovenian policy is losing credibility. And I think that the adoption of the budget today, or the rebalancing, will be just another step in this whole story. The fact is that in the first three months or the first quarter of Slovenia we have exceeded all the frameworks for the whole years. And what are the basic governmental measures? The basic government measures are, of course, partial savings. Partially saving on individual budget lines, which we believe will not appear synergistically in the overall image of public finances. In practice, this decreases in the form that social assistance funds are being reduced. In practice, this seems to reduce investments mainly in those sectors which should be accelerated. And in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and presented in this balance are long-term irrelevant. We also assess that the fact that the proposed rebalancing and its adoption will further confirm the tendency or trend towards a new debt, for the first time and for the second time, after increasing the budget gap. Now, what an individual thinks about it, I don't think it matters that much. What some political party thinks about it doesn't matter. Above all, it is how we will vote in this National Assembly. And I personally consider that it would be much more meaningful and, however, a wiser balance to reject, approach, approach to a new one, one whose objective or content will be pursued, that is, the long-term stability of financial policy. Given that the timetable under the views of the Group is limited, I will divide our debate into two parts. So, in this first part, the presentation of the SNS Group's position in general on public finance policy. And in the second part, which I think will be much more important, the measures that we have addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will be taken several times. In our opinion, how could we provide such or such public finances, which in the long term would have positive consequences, which would not have led to a reduction in economic growth that would not have led to a fall in GDP, in the final phase of increasing unemployment, and which would not have led to a decomposition, which means the existing practices of the Slovenian government. We also estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, two years ago, did not want to hear a word about inflation - former Prime Minister Drnovšek, said that or his answer to the question of inflation risk sent was always: "The Members do not talk about inflation, because this will trigger a wave of economic reflection and it will trigger the inflation spiral." Even today, when we all know that the inflation shown by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the office is still a hidden inflation. The fact is, and I'm personally afraid that we've come to the stage where we're about to start meeting even "hyperinflation.""The fact is that the Slovenian government, according to my assessment, looks exclusively and wrongly and directs its political activities externally, i.e. in view of Slovenia, which comes from abroad, in order to be able to say, in Slovenia we have such a share of this, this and this, but do not look at the actual development of our country. The fact is that the Slovenian budget, structurally speaking, has evolved in the same direction since independence. So the fact is that our country is being financed, unfortunately, almost exclusively from so-called tax revenues. We see both in the budget and in the rebalancing that the tax revenues, i.e. those which the State generally collects from the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. as necessary, and the citizens of the Republic have no right to them or if they are avoided, are punished over 90%. And that the country is, unfortunately, able to receive tax revenues of about 104 billion per year, according to the proposal, which means less than 7.5%. We consider this approach to be a very inquality approach, a reason for the emergence of existing public finances. Because the fact is that if a state or government, the executive branch of power, acquires financial resources solely from taxes and less through its assets, it sheds a bad light. However, in the discussion below, we will limit ourselves to measures and then I would like to ask for the attention of the Government. We won't support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Peca, for presenting the views of the Slovenian National Party or its parliamentary group. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Pucka, behind him by colleague Grošelj. Comrade Pucka, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister of Finance, other representatives of the government, distinguished fellow Member and fellow Members! The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the adoption of the national budget balance for this year for a number of reasons. The first is that, by adapting and harmonising public financial, monetary and income policies, we follow the objective of establishing an ERM2 and membership in the European Monetary Union after joining the EU in May next year. These policies must aim to reduce inflation while achieving satisfactory economic growth, which will provide citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with a higher standard of living. The second reason for our support is as follows. Slovenia wants to continue to adapt successfully to the changing economic situation in the world, so we need to build on the existing mechanism for valorisation of wages and pensions and thus ensure greater flexibility and manageability of public finances. The next reason for our support for the rebalancing is that partially reduced budget expenditure will provide a more suitable basis for the preparation of the amended budget for 2004. With the partial increase in the budget deficit, we are preventing an additional reduction in economic growth, given the adverse macroeconomic situation in the international environment and the increase in cyclical deficits is only temporary. At the same time, a fiscal stabiliser is provided due to uncertainty or any unstable economic situation. This is mainly a matter of uncertainty as to the ability to recover rapidly within the European Union. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia also supports the 2003 budget rebalancing because it is followed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following the constant perception of the opposition after the reduction of expenditure on goods and services, amounting to 3 billion tolars, and reduces the funds for the purchase and construction of basic funds for state authorities at an amount of 4.8 billion tolars, while maintaining expenditure for all types of social benefits to the most needed part of the population in the budget for this year at the level guaranteed and thus follows in the constitution of the social state. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The adoption of the 2003 budget balance will allow the continuation of the government's conservative policy, the reduction of inflation, the continuation of relatively favourable economic growth and the maintenance of already guaranteed social protection for all categories of the population. Therefore, Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support this rebalancing, and we will also try to contribute to the fact that the Republic of Slovenia will be ready in 2004 when we enter the European Union to meet all the challenges and ferrets that we may not yet fully know at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Comrade Pucka, for presenting the position of the Member's Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by my colleague Grošelj, followed by the position of the DeSUS Group of Members, presented by my colleague Kebrić, and then we will go to the debate of Members and Members. First of all, my friend Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u22	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister of Finance, esteemed Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that we will support the proposed budget balance for 2003 in the United Nations Group of Socialists. Although rebalans are often conditioned even with increased expectations and requirements of individual budget consumers regarding the possible use of funds to implement their planned programmes, we are not in a position to increase budgetary use. An important change in the economic and macroeconomic situation in the world, as well as in us, who have witnessed the adoption of the budget itself and, above all, significantly reduced forecasts of projected economic growth this year, also require changes in the planning of the scope of public use. The demand for this intervention is that, despite the reduction in spending, the part of budgetary spending that provides the most possible economic growth in view of the difficult conditions and maintains the basic starting points for the future development of the country is maintained. Unfortunately, in the latest economic growth forecast, they are even threatening the projected and once-repaired real economic growth from 3.7 to 3.1%, as some estimate that growth may even be below 2.9% this year. Such low economic growth will only provide minimum opportunities for normal economic and public financial targets this year, and therefore other difficult activities will be needed to implement the budget itself despite the proposed rebalancing in order to limit public spending. The consequences of such forecasts will be most evident in the loss of some budget revenues, namely taxes of 14.5 billion, mostly VAT, 9 billion, and special services taxes of 2.4 billion, although legal persons' profits, due to changed accounting standards, will increase by 11.4 billion at the same time. More worrying is the loss of income from income, payroll tax and social contributions, which will reach nearly 12 billion tolars. The budget balance foresees a series of inflation reduction activities, one of the important conditions for our country's integration into the European Union and consequently into the ERM2 and the European Monetary Union. The prerequisite for achieving the objectives set is to comply with a plan to determine controlled prices under direct government control, to manage tax duties, fees and other charges, with certain measures to reduce excise duties on oil derivatives already implemented and to ensure an impact on the lower inflation rate in the first trimester, although oil derivatives are also more expensive than previous forecasts and will have an impact on economic growth despite good government policy. However, we still have the most important agreement with the social partners on the mechanisms for harmonising wages and social benefits in the coming years. And in the debate with the social partners, they will also have a significant impact on prioritisation in this and future years, as they will also identify the dynamics of reducing inflation compared to the country's necessary economic growth. These discussions are taking place in these days, and we can hope that both the union and the government negotiating group will be able to reach bold agreements that will have long-term consequences for increasing the competitiveness of our economy and reducing unemployment, which is certainly one of the key social and economic problems in the country. The emphasis on deindexation has recently become the central theme of economists in how to lead economic and fiscal policies. For us in the United States Social Democrats List, it is particularly important that, in addition to the fiscal objectives of the State with possible deindexation, we do not suffer from economic growth, which also provides to a significant extent the demand of people who are linked to incomes, who are expected to be subject to deindexation by the Ministry of Finance. In doing so, we are also reassured by today's assurances by the Minister that deindexation will not affect the most socially endangered segments of the population, which would be totally unacceptable for our party to act as a government. The priority of social development, which we stress in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, must be greater economic growth, which will ensure increased employment, so that we can ensure acceptable social inclusion of the population, with the social diversity felt by more and more people. However, it is in the area of employment funds that we have not made the necessary movement in this budget balance, despite the adoption of the national employment programme. Although they seem to feel that they do not have sufficient resources to implement emergency programmes in other areas and sectors, since limited budget revenues do not allow for greater public spending, in the future, additional resources will be needed for increased employment, particularly to increase employment of almost unemployed or difficult to employ categories of the population. Unfortunately, it further exacerbates the situation and the restructuring of the budget expenditure resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision, which Mr Minister has already referred to today. All of this does not necessarily make it easier to balance the proposed budget balance, including with regard to certain priorities of government policy, but it only makes it difficult to offset the revenue of this year's expenditure and revenue. As we look forward to an even more difficult debate on budgetary options in 2004, we believe that the planned measures in the draft budget rebalancing are an even more tangible basis for the challenging task ahead of us in the autumn of preparing the starting points for 2004 and 2005. While we may wonder whether there is so much effort and much debate to devote to the proposal for an act that reduces the projected consumption by only a good $12.5 billion. If we look at the projected reduction in budget expenditure, we could say that the budget changes are so small that it would make sense to carry them out with possible reallocations in the budget itself. In our view, however, it must be borne in mind that the effects of the rebalancing can contribute significantly to the creation of better bases for the preparation of the 2004 and 2005 budget. Taking into account the fact that we are not providing additional resources in the budget's rebalancing to accelerate economic growth, we can at least find that the government in the proposed act has avoided the reduction of investment funds or has found compensation for the shortfalls in areas where economic growth could be further halted due to substantially reduced investments. We need to know, however, that it is only difficult to avoid freezing the various social transfers and aids, which, in addition to lowering demand and economic growth, would have affected the composition of the population on the lower income scale, which would have been unacceptable for the United List of Social Democrats. In short, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, like the rest, we are not fully satisfied with the proposed budget balance, but we will support it because we are convinced that it is necessary and meaningful, despite the perceptions we are hearing today. We will also support the proposed amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which it has prepared for the agricultural part of the budget, because we believe it is improving the proposal for a rebalancing prepared by the government and also responds to the protests of forest workers in front of the government palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Comrade Groschel. As a last resort, the DeSUS Group, or colleague Kebrich, will present its views on its behalf. Then we will go to the debate on the individual parts of the national budget's proposal for a rebalancing, to the general part, to the specific part and plan of the development programmes. First, my friend Kebrich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, your associates, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a budget rebalancing. We're wondering why. Second, we ask ourselves if we have the answer why, whether it's the right time, whether it's too early, whether it's too late, or if it's right. On the question of why the balance was given by the Minister, due to the changed conditions of management, both abroad, but little less said, although he also said that due to the changed conditions at home. The projected gross social product growth this year was 3.7%. Now the assumption that only 3.1, but also this percentage, as seen from the European and global markets or beyond, will still be favourable if we know that the projected growth of the social gross product in the countries of the European Union so far is only 1.3, I come to those who will and will [[Slovenia is included]] They entered the European Union next year, on average 3.1 as well as us. What's the point of the rebalancing problem? It is important to see the budget deficit already identified in the basic data of these months, which have shown during the current year that revenue flows to the state budget are falling significantly. Where's the reason? We're wondering. However, it is not necessary that I do not know what kind of economist, every master wonders what is the lower inflows, what is the lower in income, how he will cover the planned expenditure if they are higher than the revenues. In this direction, it is concluded that this year’s revenue side should be reduced by as much as 28.2 billion tolars. On the other hand, if we are to make up for this deficiency, something must be done. What can be done? Two or even three can be done. The first is to increase, on the one hand, what the first months have shown to be declining revenue. This will not be possible, according to all expectations of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, as well as the economic view. On the other hand, it's possible to cut costs, costs. We are also limited here if we do not want to affect all social rights, affect economies, still give them something, albeit a little less, resources for its prosperity, for its growth, or a third option, to be further indebted. However, this additional debt is always at least for those who are custodians, the least acceptable, because any additional debt means an increase of that debt, at least for interest, and on the other hand means an outflow of domestic capital, an outflow of domestic social product. As we look at the proposal proposed and interpreted by the government, we see that there is a reason why the revenue side is declining. It is reduced - and this is very important and worrying - personal consumption and, on the other hand, real investment growth is reduced, ranging from 4.8 to 3.2. The decline in inflation is very positive, so at least we look at citizens, but it means, on the other hand, that we have to pay for it somehow. If we want to lower inflation, first of all, we need to limit the aggregates that are driven by inflation. On the other hand, partial or up to some extent, inflation is the main aggregate to increase production. If we master wages - what is being discussed most right now in the negotiations in the economic and social world, where he has a very important word and role as a partner - we will see two: if wages are managed, on the other hand, it will mean a decrease in purchasing power. Not to come along on its own, the reduced purchasing power will further reduce inflows to the VAT-related state budget and other items related to these revenues in the budget. On the other hand, let us say that this wage management can also mean that we will face new problems in the autumn when there will be no higher pensions if certain matters are not settled. Minister, Prof. Marble stressed, but the government also emphasises that it will take care of and will not reduce social transfers or reduce social benefits and support. Unfortunately, today's finances bring – at the wrong time or perhaps even at the right time – an important article entitled "Slovenia, more than a social state". This clearly gives rise to something that is directly linked to our budget rebalancing. We have written down in the constitution - and already one of the speakers mentioned this - that we are a social state. If we are a social state, we must make sure that at least the social state standard remains not only at the level that we have achieved in these years after the country's independence, but that it will also progress, as citizens expect it from the independent state, the government and the legislative body to do just that. However, if we are to intervene under these headings in the state budget, this will undoubtedly have to happen. On the other hand, let's move on to the expenditure side. What can be done there? I'm not going to repeat parrotically where it's necessary and there's a lot to be saved, about the plane and so on, but let's turn there and start saving really the end from the top down. For those layers that are rich and have enough, I will say, under the nickname, high or higher income, should contribute something to this saving. Forgive me for using the expression below, these are those who are on the Slovenian average or under average, as far as income is concerned, but they are no longer voluntary, forced to save today at all ends and places. If we manage inflation, can it really be expected that certain benefits will probably go to a certain extent to save money, why, because if inflation is not significant, then you can save and it is only worth saving when you need something, because you are counting on your income if it actually grows - and this is my question to the Minister of Finance, is there a real increase in citizens' income? Because if this doesn't happen, it means stagnation, and all this stagnation in this area means social unrest sooner or later, because inflation, planned for about 5 percent, or a dozen more or less, is not as important at all, the whole index points are important. Therefore, it is only short for tax debt. This debt is supposed to be 175 billion according to some data. From this we have heard who was only a little more interested in the fact that it is possible to recover around 100 billion, which is most dependent on the courts, which unfortunately, according to my inquiries and information, do not have qualified economists to step on the fingers of those taxpayers who owe so much, but mainly the lawsuits that are being resolved in the courts, always the tax administration brings a short end. If there is any time left in the group, we will give some special light. Thank you very much so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for a rebalancing. And now we are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the state budget's proposal for a rebalancing. As an individual part, it is therefore considered a general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing, a specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal and a plan for the development programmes. After the conclusion of the debate on each individual part, we will also vote. We are therefore moving on to the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. I'm asking, who wants a word? Here you go, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to add some more things that, after the time limit, which was announced by our parliamentary group, I could not fully implement. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in addition to what I have appointed in my presentation analysis of revenue and the reasons given by the Government to this national assembly, in a document that we are now considering that they are, too, what I have mentioned, that this is, according to our assessment, some toy with numbers. Otherwise, not now, because the explanations given by Mr Minister seem to us in those areas in which the actual explanation has been given, we think they are in place and we have no reason to doubt. That these things are, before a certain income is identified or calculated, to actually do some analysis, model analysis, and then some more detailed analysis. And that this has proved to be true in these cases and, of course, there is a question whether they have done so knowingly now and I have no reason to doubt how they planned it at the end of the year when we got this budget under consideration. In the fact that we have warned that the revenues are inflated, they are only inflated to show some more pink image of our common future than it actually is now. However, there are certain things in the area of expenditure that are worrying. I just want to warn my respectable colleagues and colleagues on two. And that's when we look at where there's going to be saving and what's going to be saving. In particular, I would focus on the budget of the Prime Minister and on the budget of the Office of the President of the State. Let's go see the president first. Here is one very important increase, 40 million, expenditure on goods and services. Expenditure on goods and services. The explanation is that this is based on Article 42 of the Public Finance Act that new commitments have been made. And what are these new obligations? In a few lines, we are told that there is a decision to set protocol rules, as far as this is concerned, we are not told. Then it is the government's conclusion that some agreement has recently been reached on the management of the facility in which the government is located. And that is, one third would belong to the Office of the Prime Minister, one third to the Office of the President of the State, and one third to the Secretary-General. There's no concrete data. I've been looking for nothing. Maybe it's hidden somewhere, but I couldn't find myself. However, it is futile to find that this would be some savings in the budget of the Prime Minister or the Secretary-General. These are the incomprehensibles. At the same time, we have a very detailed report for the former President of the country, and what will happen is where those sixty million are going, which the National Assembly has already defined, so it is not clear to the new President of the State where 40 million are coming from. Second, it is the budget of the Prime Minister. The budget of the Prime Minister has an explanation of 11 lines or 11 and a half and the last two lines, and here I read, "the total reduction in resources on the positions of the Prime Minister's Office is 28.7 million and 4.7% of the budget adopted," the budget adopted. What's the message here for the public? The message is, the new Prime Minister will be less budgeted than the previous one, for which this was planned - but is this true? Here comes this toy with numbers and to create some images. The fact is, according to the government's action, legally as foreseen in the budget, the government's public budget has increased by 36 million, so the first government has decided to increase it, for which there are certainly reasons - the reasons are not very clear and we do not know. Then comes the Prime Minister's gesture, which reduces by 27.8 million. I wonder if this is not toying with numbers and creating an image, because the actual budget of the Prime Minister's Office is increasing by 1.2% above the sum foreseen in the adopted budget adopted by this National Assembly. We could still find that kind of stuff. The fact is that uncertainties are the essential feature of this documentation that we have before us. I would also like to mention that, as far as the expenditure is concerned, I fully agree with these views presented by my colleague, Andrej Vizjak, that I do not see any socialist attitude in this, but that there is a social attitude that is concerned that, at this point, the possibilities of our resources are being revived so that it is not on account where things are most painful in our society. So in this sense, I object to Mr Janez Podobnik, who just called it a socialist position, because I also agree, and I think that no one has any doubt that I am not a socialist, but let them think about what he said and what it really means. But there's one more thing I'd like to mention. Yes, and this will also be the subject of perhaps a debate when we consider the law on the implementation of the budget, which is an obligation. It is true that now, how we have solved or how the government proposes to resolve this fall, is the projected fall in revenue. 12.6 billion is a reduction in expenditure, while the second is an increase in indebtedness. So it's supposed to be our deficit, this is the real deficit, which was projected for just over 54 billion dollars to go somewhere over 70, but of course it doesn't take into account the fact that we still have a fiscal stabiliser. The fiscal stabiliser, however, will give the legal government the opportunity to add 15 billion more. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that we will also increase whether we should increase this deficit to the extent that we are credible. As for the increase in so-called guarantees. Since in the law on the implementation of the budget you have certainly noticed that we increase the guarantees from 110 billion to 150, namely for 4 institutions: for the Slovenian Railway Agency 12 billion, for the Slovenian Health Insurance Agency for 14 billion, and for Dars for 20. I'm asking you how long we're going to be cheating on ourselves and actually acting like these guarantees have any chance of getting into the budget. The fact is that a large majority of these 40 billion will become the burden of the budget. Is it not time for our government to tell the Slovenians exactly where we are, not to keep hiding in drawers and waiting for a future when they surprise us - oh! - some war somewhere in the world, the Bush administration is doing such a different thing, the euro is too strong, gentlemen, we know that it will come at the great majority of the burden of our budget. [[...]] Why games like that? Yes, because the success story has to be strengthened. Not only is this actually part of our deficit this year, but it is a fact that when we report on this, we give our data to the European Union, and by the Maastricht criteria, we need to include this. The so-called ESA95 requires that these guarantees are also part of the deficit. So, according to the Maastricht criteria, our deficit is also greater. Who are we kidding? Only the domestic political scene, Slovenian citizens and citizens, because we have to tell Europe the truth. There's something else I'd like to point out. That in all this debate - and a colleague, the representative of DeSUS, has also pointed to this, at least in part - about the plane. Surely you have also heard how the government will save on this final solution, at least it looks final, or the proposal to solve the aircraft problem. I would warn you that there is no expenditure in this plane budget at all - not just expenditure, not so-called savings. You know why not? I hope you will recall how many times I have pointed out the problem of basic development programmes, how we finance or how we demonstrate through public funding the needs of our armed forces. This plane, as far as we know, was financed through this program. However, this programme is not reflected in public finances reports. Why isn't he showing up? Because it's already some kind of agreement out there in 1994, which is completely inconsistent with the Public Finance Act, that I'm not saying it's inconsistent with common sense. And it's not just the attitude of the opposition, it's not the attitude of these people that you normally, normally, understandably, judge as if we were petty in this area. This is also a warning from the International Monetary Fund, to which I have also warned in the National Assembly. Not only is the plane not included here, not as an expense or as a possible savings, all of this is additional! At the same time, we have no report on the core development programmes, how much we have already spent there, why and how. I understand that certain things in the basic development programmes must be, because they are of a strategic nature, also disguised and in this way retain themselves - but not to the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Because here, and I will end up with this, is the key responsibility of the National Assembly, in our constitutional order and also in the understanding of parliamentary democracy wherever they have it. We have a responsibility as a national assembly to determine what the executive branch should do. Executive, the government will do as we say. However, because we do not have these reports because this national assembly is in the past and even now - and today it is also planning in the law on the implementation of the budget to increase the exchange rate of executive power, so this is happening to us to bear responsibility, but we do not know what it is. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, because of all these arguments that I have already mentioned, we will not support this balance. We will not support this rebalancing because we do not know now whether it is also part of the toy with numbers that we are already used to, or whether it is finally some serious approach. That it is not to a large extent a serious approach, but I hope I have also shown you in my presentation. So, New Slovenia will not support this. However, we hope that the moment will come as soon as we all sober up, not only the government, but also this national assembly, that the issue of transparency in our public finances is crucial and that if we do not resolve this, we will be very difficult to propose to one and others to carry out our own duties. Mr Mumor rightly reminded us of the challenges of this country and our society in the near future. That we do not yet have a clear position of the Slovenian Government on the open problem of tax debts, it is completely unacceptable for us in the opposition and for the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes. That we are here to debate the entire days of 12 billion savings, while at the same time the government recognises that there are over 173 billion tax debts - respected ladies and gentlemen, what are we doing? And if this Slovenian country is not in this period, during this crucial period of such strong challenges, it will ensure equality for all before the law, especially before tax laws, and we will not be able to solve these problems. I am confident that our citizens and our citizens are as responsible as anywhere else in the world, and that, to the extent that a clear picture is presented to them, they will also support such measures. But not in such a situation, if I may say at home, when it happens to us that a large majority is pushing this wagon, but some are sitting on the wagon and smiling nicely at others. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not going to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec has the floor, Mr Pece. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members. It is appropriate to ask at the outset what is the point of adopting two-year budgets. I am asking this question mainly because of the procedure we are facing in the adoption or implementation of the 2003 budget. We first considered the proposal in December 2001 and adopted the 2003 budget. It was a happy event that we were one of the few countries in Europe where we came to the adoption of two-year budgets. This was followed by an updated draft budget in December last year. This is followed by the adoption of a balance at this meeting of the National Assembly. This is likely to be followed by the annual practice of closing annual budgets with around 20 or 25 billion unpaid accounts, mainly in the investment area of individual budget users. I believe that such a practice is unsustainable and unacceptable. In particular, it is unacceptable for budget operators in the field of investment development. Literally, the items are planned this year and are no longer in the middle of next year. And here is the question of what is the purpose of the two-year budget, where the economic growth indicators or the planned revenues are unrealistic. And there is also actually a question of why we are arguing here today about 12 billion and a half - there is indeed a question - if the government wanted to come seriously with the budget rebalancing, it should come for a total of 28 billion and 243 million, which is an additional revenue outturn. In fact, this adds to the deficit. As a Member, I am in trouble, but if I oppose this balance, this deficit could be even greater. But it's irresponsible of the government to deal with the problem of solving the problem of how to save the revenue gap so it doesn't solve it in its entirety. Get in the middle of the road and stop. It is, then, an obscenity and let go of how to resolve the situation - in public debt, in increasing the deficit. I think that's an irresponsible, irresponsible approach. In the event of a rebalancing, a solution must be found for the loss of the entire revenue framework. In doing so, I believe that, if we look at this year's proposal for a rebalancing, there is still an unacceptable mentality in the area of public finance planning in terms of how to increase economic growth as well. Indeed, there is still a significant decline in the public sector, particularly in public consumption, and a significant increase in investment. Investment has been proven to promote economic growth, to accelerate development. And here's where the government has done little in this rebalancing. The Prime Minister, as well as the Minister of Finance, were probably too brave to coordinate this year's balance. Indeed, the fact is that what has been said many times today is that we can only eat as much as we create. That thought hasn't penetrated the plan enough. Finally, it is necessary to say that I find it really strange that in the field of the Office of the President of the Republic there is an increase in funds for ca. 17%. There is something about the law on the President of the Republic, but the fact is that the person is asked questions about becoming the office of the President of the Republic of the Nonsensitivity Council. I think it is irresponsible, including from the government and the Prime Minister, that we are not here today. Understandably, it will be said that a government meeting is now taking place. This is also an error during coordination in determining the treatment of this item on the agenda. Indeed, the usual practice in all developed countries is that in adopting the budget or its balance, the whole government sits in charge with the Prime Minister in Parliament. And here the leadership of the National Assembly should make an effort to choose such a deadline for the consideration of the budget balance, where this will also be possible. In addition, I believe that the Minister of Finance has made a very courageous statement regarding plans to level the budget in the coming year with regard to the entry into the European Union. But I wonder if he'll make it. We have already heard from one coalition party today that the forecast of such deindexation for this coalition party is unacceptable. I agree that this procedure must be carried out in a manner that will evenly distribute the burden of deindexation. But if we do not interfere thoroughly with the 2004 budget, then Slovenia will not be prepared to face the challenges that it will face when it joins the European Union. And that's what he has to do. At the same time, I would like to point out that both the financial ministry and the government are lagging behind. If the measures don't work in time, we'll be in the electoral year, and we know what's going on there. And I doubt that the optimistic announcement of Minister Marble will also be realized in the deindexation plan, which was already clear today, as well as in the tax reform plan. In doing so, I would point out that it is necessary to clean up at home first, of course. The government should first come, as has already been said on behalf of the parliamentary group, with a proposal to freeze the functional salaries and salaries associated with the functional salaries. First of all, it must show this gesture by itself; only in this way can it convince the other partners in the public sector to accept the reform for their own. In the end, it will be difficult to accept this balance, probably with very bitter feelings. But the fact is, if we don't accept it, then the National Assembly is guilty of creating an even greater deficit for the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u30	Why did the government approach the two-year budget? At that time, the Minister of Finance stated that, in order to exercise greater control over revenue and expenditure during this period, budgetary users would be able to plan their obligations and their revenues under this Act. This, we see, unfortunately, has not happened and this argument has been wrong. The second argument used at the time by Minister Rop was that this two-year budget would reduce the public financial deficit to just 48 billion. This too, we can see, was wrong at the time, or today it appears to be wrong. In short, even in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the Slovenian Government's approaches to the two-year budgets are flawed and that the only reason why we should join the two-year budget is because we can boast abroad that we are one of the few countries with a two-year budget. At the same time, we forget that we are the only ones who change this budget several times a year and deceive all those who depend on this budget. In short, we are convinced that the concept of the Slovenian government regarding the implementation and writing of budgets and monthly balances is wrong and that a completely different concept should be approached for the stabilisation of public finances and for responsible financial policy. The fact is, in the Slovenian National Party, we have called on the Minister of Finance three times from the forecast of the rebalancing to consult him and offer him a proposal from the Slovenian National Party. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Finance has not been enough to inform us of their views on a possible meeting and discussion. According to our assessment, this indicates the total ignorance of the finance minister or, on the other hand, the complete ignorance of matters or the lack of willingness to make news. Despite all this, it must be clear to the people who manage the financial picture in our country that our country cannot survive in the long term with such a way or concept of public finances. In the opening speech of the Slovenian National Party, I stressed that, unfortunately, as a result of the current financial policy in the coming years, there will be a number of changes. In particular, it has changed to the account of the working population, which will also be extended in the final phase due to financial policy. But the criticism at the expense of the government, its finances and past work, I think that through the views of the parliamentary groups, without exception, was enough; somewhere more direct, somewhere between the lines. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are convinced that it makes sense, even this time, to point out and propose individual measures which, according to our assessment, would lead to a better situation and, above all, to a longer-term, better quality of life in our country. And only in our country, because the fact is that we and the Slovenian government are still called the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. From which it follows that we should basically look for citizens and citizens of this country. To enable them to live, simpler, more quality and on a higher level. And not to do what the Slovenian government has done over the last five years, it is that the distribution of people has increased, that we have increased the bridge several times between the poorer layer and the more powerful part. And that we have all achieved together, and above all, the Slovenian government is responsible for the circus of 300,000 people living below the poverty threshold. We estimate that from revenue combined, among which tax revenues of over 90 per cent and non-tax revenues of only 7.5 per cent, there is a fundamental sin of Slovenian public finances. The fact is that tax burdens, i.e. as an instrument used every year by the Slovenian government, because the fact is that every year this Slovenian government either increases tax burdens or introduces new taxes does not help to promote development. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we thus give first criticism and wish for changes in the structure of revenue, in a change of 90 per cent from 9 per cent. We estimate that it would make sense to approach the proportion that would reflect the figure 75:25. It is true, however, that in order to achieve 25 percent of the tax revenue, people in the Slovenian government should be able to do so. Unfortunately, we don't have that. However, I sincerely hope that this inability of the Slovenian Government will be replaced by at least their elasticity and ability to listen to others when it comes to ideas. We estimate in the National Party that we should approach a reduction in tax rates. According to our assessment, this would, of course, be an increase in personal consumption and private sector consumption, which would take place in a higher investment flow. On the other hand, the country would, at this point in time with its subsidies and aid, have to direct this investment flow mainly in two directions: for the first time to work intensively, because the fact is that employment is still declining in Slovenia, so unemployment is increasing, and for the second time in technological intensive terms, if we want to survive in the European Union, where citizens and citizens have decided to enter. On the other hand, from this point of view, in the long term, our assessment would compensate for the loss of those tax revenues that would lead to a reduction. It is true that in the context of such thinking there is also a kind of time delay. So between the loss of tax revenue and the acquisition of funds from non-tax revenues. For a short period in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that it would, of course, make sense to approach three measures. First time. Saving measures which must by no means be linear. Savings measures that must not respond to the reduction of the social rights of those 300,000 in our country, which are generally without political power and absolutely without capital power and are therefore unfortunately not of interest to the Slovenian government. On the other hand, it is a talk about tax debts. In Slovenia there are 170 billion Slovenian tolars for the circus. In the SNS Group, we estimate that 100 billion of them are expendable. And the fact is that the carriers of these hundreds of billions are those that are capital and party-interesting for the government of the Republic of Slovenia. And it is precisely because of this inadequacy that the Slovenian government suffers those who are not interesting. In the short term, 100 billion Slovenian Tolars should be granted only on the basis of normal tax policy. There are 170 billion of them. On the other hand, we are assessing in the Slovenian National Party in order to be able to change the tactics of public companies and capital companies this year. In the Slovenian National Party, we have noted this imbalance in the course of concessional discussions or discussions on public companies. It should also be noted that the same legal code of one company, public undertaking d.d., has budgetary implications in non-tax revenue. Participation in the profits of public companies, both in the budgets of local communities and in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, is negligible. Why? This is because, when profits are distributed, companies refer to d.d., the Company Act, which basically speaks one and only one, is: the interest of such a company is the interest of profit. He's winning shares. On the other hand, the Law on Public Economics is the basic and sole purpose of the Public Economic Companies Act, which is to ensure public interest. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the way to allow such anomalies, which the Slovenian Government naturally continues and introduces into Slovenia's legal space and into the market order, is to lose an additional 70 billion Slovenian tolars every year in this country. These were short-term measures. So 100 billion from tax policy, 70 billion from differentiation and a single concept or d.d. or a public undertaking. On the other hand, it should be noted that, in the long or medium term, it would, of course, make sense in that country once and for all to accede to the projected and adopted sale plan and to the sales procedures. Unfortunately, even in this area, the Slovenian government has proved to be uncreditable. In connection with the law on the implementation of the budget, the National Assembly has already adopted a decision in the past year on the sale or connection of the Postal Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank as a replacement for the first pillar you sold to foreigners in the Liberal Democracy. But the Slovenian government is deliberately stalling in this area. Why? You don't even stick to the law on budget implementation. Although with such plans, such ways would achieve a new banking pillar, this would be the first effect - a pillar that could survive in the long run, but is avoided by the Slovenian government. On the other hand, it was just one case. The fact is that the Slovenian government sells this when it only corresponds to it in that country and only to it in the area where it suits foreigners. This country, this government, this Slovenian policy does not have the procedures for the sale of assets, but as far as it has them, it does not. In the National Party we assess - what I now show with my words and true claims - that we missed or lost over 300 billion Slovenian tolars in connection with the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. The value of the banking system has cost citizens over 400 billion Slovenian tolars through bonds! Liberal democracy or, I apologize, and representatives of Liberal Democracy in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sold it for less than 100 billion Slovenian Tolars. Additional 300 billion Slovenian tolars! And, of course, a long hand - that is the hand that would introduce one of the more important pictures. The fact is that, this year, we could also adopt a roofing law in the field of concessions, because concession fees or concessional revenues are a unique opportunity, whether on one side of the country or on the other side of the local community, because the fact is that only these two institutions, i.e. the state and the local community, can grant concessions. We don't have that in our country. This means that concession revenue is also deliberately missed; concessions are granted to whoever they want. And those who want to be given are again capital-interested for the Slovenian government and political parties in the Slovenian government or politically interesting. In the Slovenian National Party, we also assess that, with the measures proposed by the current Minister of Finance, unfortunately - again, I stress - we will not come to better public finances. We will only get to a new balance that we will meet in October or September this year and when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia again argues that some thousand miles of us have appeared and that this has raised some price, even though it is not at all. We do not intend to support such a proposal for a rebalancing in the Slovenian National Party; it would make sense for the National Assembly to reject it and to approach a new balance that will have an impact on budget consumers and those who are legally bound to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. It's a trifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to ask a few questions to begin with; they may be provocative, but I think, given the text that we have received as an explanation of the budget, they are quite appropriate. Given that the forecast of economic growth is 3.1, and so on, sparrows are chirping that this will not be achieved, I wonder if the government still believes in these figures. Or is that the starting point that they set up at the time, and now they are defending it, perhaps they no longer believe? Next. Is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia planning to perform any rebalancing this year? Then how much share or what amount of the assets of this year's liabilities will you transfer to next year - according to the logic of behavior in previous years? Will the decline in investment in science and infrastructure continue? In fact, when I read this text, I see that you have largely deleted investments in basic infrastructure, something is said in roads, including in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Unfortunately, some projects will not be able to be implemented, although they are urgently needed. But you didn't try to cut other costs. Why am I stressing this? Because the reduction of investment in infrastructure will certainly also have an impact on economic activity.If we look at the economic structure of Slovenia, we see that the private sector is also largely connected to the state supply, to the state sector. This will reduce the business of the private sector, the part linked to the state offer. Therefore, these assessments may also be inaccurate and inappropriate. Otherwise, for the starting point of this budget when it was announced, I think that two months ago, the Prime Minister said that the key reason for this rebalancing was to raise the price of oil. The price of oil rose at the time, but after three weeks, it fell and fell even lower than expected. What, then, are the reasons for the rebalancing when he then mentioned that this is a key reason? It is clear from these reports or forecasts that you can provide certain salaries and costs of material services by means of these means and that it is only for ten or eleven months that this can be understood. That is why those questions that I have originally asked are justified and I want answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler has the floor, please, and Mr Kelemina is behind him. Mr. Petty Officer, can you please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u34	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Now the microphone's working. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a very important document, a document that provides a basis for the further work of government and other institutions and institutions and the whole country. More or less, my predecessors talked a lot about the balance, the deficit, the income and the expenditure. However, I would like to stress, and I would like to point out, that the balance sheet is not made up of deficits or increases in revenue or expenditure. The balance is also needed either in the congregation or in the country where some things do not go as the Prime Minister had intended. Today we are in a very difficult and strange situation that the Finance Minister, who has been preparing the budget we have adopted, is today the Prime Minister. And in my own personal way, I am pleased that we have a financial minister, Mr Marble, who is consistent with public finances. Although we want the budget to be slightly larger, heavier, stronger and that every word spoken in the Temparliament on the committees and commissions and each request would find its own place in the budget, but that is not the case. However, I am very disappointed at some of the government's actions, some of the actions of individual ministers and ministries. I was very pleased, and I also say that Slovenia is going to Europe, that Slovenia is approaching Europe and that Slovenia has an open door to the structural funds of Europe. In a good review of this budget as well as of the rebalancing, and for that reason alone, I also say that the balance is not always due to revenue and expenditure; the balance could also be so that certain things, the items within the budget, can be adapted to those needs, to those things that our country could be more efficient and prepared for those funds that should be waiting for us within the European Union, as regards the absorption of the Structural Funds. We don't pay much attention to that. Europe wants the regions to be as equals as possible, equally developed, so that social pressures, the social crisis and unemployment across all regions are the same. That is why I also expected that this rebalancing would be somewhat different so that our government and also the Prime Minister, according to the words he gave when we elected him and when we entrusted him with this function, would draw up this balance in order to reduce the differences between one and the other regions. I will not take much time in my debate, but I was very disappointed and surprised at this or in the previous week over some information that the Ministry of Economy alone spent about 7 billion dollars in subsidising some of the calls and cutting funds across regions shows that the central Slovenian region received 30% of these funds, Pomurska only 2%, Koroška only 2%, Zasavska only 2%, Podravska 8%. I note that those regions that are least developed, those regions that have the greatest unemployment, those regions that have the greatest social and economic crisis, have received at least the funds from those calls which have been designed to reduce the differences both in the economy, economic, financial and social between one and the other regions. This is one example that I would like to point out that I would like the balance of the budget to extend to these structures of the Ministry of Economy. Personally, it is unacceptable for me to spend such resources on the budget in the middle region, which is in the short run, with only a small percentage of all the other regions that are least developed. Although she will be a representative of the ministry or government who has a reason not to agree with me, the budget is the document that gives the opportunity to develop to those who feel the need for such development and without budget and without changes in the budget of money we cannot get there. In this part, I expected a budget rebalancing in this part. This is not funny to me personally, but I know that some of the funds, not only in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, are being directed to those regions that are urgently in need of such assistance. This is the responsibility of all of us. I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister among us today, because he is officially absent so that he can also ask him a question at this point. It would certainly be good for the Minister of Economy, who has an important role and part of the budget, to give these concerns an answer to these questions. How can 30% be used in the central region and only 2% in that suburban region? That's the statistics. If they are not correct, then my particulars, which I draw from the statistics, are not correct. That is why I expect whenever it happens that this National Assembly will have a budget rebalancing in order to change its budget balance in this direction, how to reduce the differences between one region and another, how to adapt some of the public calls so that those who are most affected can reach those funds and organise them so that they can also slowly draw funds, not only in Slovenia, probably even across our borders. Last but not least, as my fellow Member Peca mentioned, the law on enforcement and the decision we adopted at the time we adopted the budget and the promise made by the Prime Minister to parliaments to connect the two financial pillars of the New Bank and the Postal Bank would have to ask a lot of questions, but the Prime Minister is not among us. I hope and I wish he would keep the promise he made before us, which was written down. In fact, the time has passed for the merger of these two banks. I would not like to speak out of the voice of those individuals and of the kind from which they come, who oppose such a merger, but if this does not happen in a short time if you do not deliver these promises to the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister in a short time, I publicly announce that we will start talking about the names and surnames of those who prevent this from happening. I do not care at all, however, about the honourable Members and Members from whom these people come, but you can probably guess. Thank you again for taking so much time to listen to me in a document as important as the budget balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Respectable all together. I also assess that in such an important document, although this is only a budget rebalancing, there should also be a Prime Minister and another representative of the Ministry, including a finance minister who is probably due to an obligation to go somewhere else; in short, it would be right for Members, those who will accept this state budget or who will accept it - I should immediately say that I will not vote for the budget rebalancing - who will accept and when you say that someone would hear this and that they would forget a little, but perhaps also take it into account then. At least I hope that the magnetograms will be read by ministers, Prime Minister, etc. - if they are, it's a big question. But let's leave this alone, we're talking mostly, probably in three days. However, what has been said today, in some more modest form by the minister, has been heard a number of times. Although I have not been present in the major rebalancings since they were not yet in the previous period, the rebalancies have begun to appear in the last period, but in all these policies, government forecasts, government, policies that have predicted and planted flowers for all eternity in previous periods, in fact today's story just continues with some new people; and there are no changes. While the Minister was talking about structural changes, he probably had in mind not only financial restructuring, he probably also had general social restructuring, economic restructuring in Slovenia, mentioning some of these things. He said it was important to achieve higher economic growth and reduce unemployment, etc. Your Honor! I'll tell you something about economic growth. For the seventh year, I have been sitting here in the National Assembly, and I say this, knowingly, that the National Assembly, which is the most responsible institution in this country, which should take care of the economy in this country in order to be successful, has done nothing for the economy, except that it has adopted some laws that it has so prescribed under European Community law and adapted to our existing situation. In seven years, this was done by the National Economic Assembly! Nor is politics like the government for the economy - in my opinion, I estimate, this is my subjective assessment - has done very little or nothing for the economy. If the economy has done something, it has done only itself through its lobbying, through its institutions, which it has and through our workers, the good people who have worked and worked for this country, so that politics can exploit them. That's what this State Economic Assembly did! Just so we're clear. The Minister spoke about unemployment in order to reduce this structural change and so on, in general. I wish it were, but it's hard to believe. We have now been staggering unemployment for about 100,000 years. That's definitely it. He pays not to talk about the salaries that are in individual branches of the economy. You know exactly what you're doing. In particular, in my municipality, where labour intensive industries are shrinking immeasurably, rapidly and very interestingly and funnyly now, for example, the last time Mr Minister or Prime Minister replied to parliamentary questions that as soon as these changes were detected, stagnation and job loss in the field of labour intensive industries had begun, they immediately approached action. [[...]] I'm asking you nicely, but that's a laugh! We here, at least I remember, have been on the Committee on the Economy since the year I was in the National Assembly, and in 1997, I believe we started to work actively, we talked about these things, and we took hundreds of measures, and we took all these and conclusions, and there was nothing out of this. It wasn't any of it! And I don't know how you imagine and keep planting flowers to people over and over again, but people can't live on it. Traumas I experience in my congregation when people come to me and explain to me the trauma they experience when they throw them on the road, and perhaps a single woman is also with three children, a family where both are unemployed. We know that they usually get together, but by some natural logic, probably, people with lower education also live together. And then two people like that, they both stay on the road with their family. With some social assistance of 30, 35, 40 thousand dollars. They don't need this people. I'm told: we don't need social assistance, we need work. This has always been the way you have taught them in the previous system or we have taught them how you want, and the country must also be interested in providing people with jobs. He's got to! Cultural jobs to survive. I'm just going to say one case because I don't want to burden you with this right now. A little girl almost cried when she was with her father, and she said, "How can I learn if I'm hungry?" This is where you spread on all levels! Not to say, from the plane and beyond. And you're talking about saving some money! That's not saving! And what the minister has just said is that the government last week - last week! - when she found out all these things, she took a package of measures. Last week! You can imagine, it's irony! Last week, a package of measures. One of these is, say, rationalisation in public administration. That's what the minister said. Please, rationalization! I'm not saying no, but we've done these wrongs and irregularities a long time ago. Now you're going backwards - so what have you been up to today?Oh, my God! Now all of a sudden, all of a sudden, you all know with this balance what should have been done by now, we didn't know what to do for ten years! Politics on this entire front has completely canceled! And it's time for politics to withdraw once by ruling in this country. Let the experts come and rule! Politics canceled on the entire front, that's definitely it. Let the people who are capable come and lead this country! Rationalisation in public administration - a grave mistake we have made in the past, allowing wages in the public sector to increase so much that far, far, far, far, far-reaching wages in the economy. I remember it better in the previous system, I tell you! And no nostalgia brings me back because I want every single individual's free initiative to show what he knows to try on the market, that's definitely, that's positive. However, in the previous system, wages in the economy were at least slightly higher than those in the public sector. Where did the public sector pay today? In addition to having huge budget resources that simply disappear, someone knows where, perhaps tens, one hundred billion or more. If I didn't talk about all these cars, all the bank cards, who would know what privileges everything is given to this account. That's not how it works! Until the economy is properly evaluated until there are significantly higher revenues in the economy - for example, Germany once was the basis [[I don't know if it's still today.]] qualified worker in the metal manufacturing industry as a basis for evaluating all classes or evaluating all other jobs. I don't know if it still is today, but it used to be. And so today - the one who creates who works for machines must be the basis and the basis then for the selection of all the other salaries in the country. Today, we have completely broken this relationship. That's not how it works. That's not how it works, and it's not gonna work. I'm pretty sure it's not. Mr Minister also spoke of some goals, he mentioned three objectives. Flexibility of fiscal policy as well. Good. I'm just curious. I believe him, and I want to see him do something about it, because he's trying. But I think that politics is going to keep him from being allowed to do what he knows from the profession in order to be necessary. He was talking about a competitive economy, lower inflation. Here I would touch this lower inflation, this indexation that he was talking about. You can imagine when we are, and I spoke in person in the National Assembly, because as an amateur, an ignorant of finance and so on, I can say, but I certainly learned something in life, but at that time I realized that this indexation, or this TOM, was one big trick. And I was already saying why wouldn't we, if we wanted to lower inflation, why wouldn't we write that we have 22% interest interest if we had, say, TOM 15, or normal interest 7 or 8 - I don't know, because it doesn't matter - or 20 percent interest, or 18 percent interest. Why don't we write this down, some nominal value of this interest. It was pure fraud. And when you asked the bank what the interest is: yes, it's only 7 percent. It's a beautiful thing. It's not much. And then plus 15 and so on. If you'd done this to me a long time ago. Today you have learned that it is necessary to do so. Today, when we come to the European Community, who do not know this and have never recognized this formula. They never knew this formula. If they are, I'm sorry, but I'm misinformed. But this actually means that you're adapting to daily politics and that you're still trying to cheat on citizens and people. How long you're gonna make it, I don't know. I don't know. We'll see. They're going to show the election. In short, I hope that now this indexation will really come to life and that we will lower inflation and that then the simple people, as the Minister has announced, will be more easily breathed. We'll see. Just let me touch it so I don't steal too much time, 'cause I know that then everything gets uninteresting anyway. That's no way to talk to anyone. However, I would say something to the budget deficit, which is now - Mr Minister says we will increase the smallness with this balance. There's 0.2 percent or what. I don't know exactly, it doesn't matter, but that our deficit is still moving within one percent. That's really not much. Really, let's face it, it's not a big deal, but I don't mind because that 1 percent information isn't real anyway. It's a tricky thing to take into account all the other things where money is lost in different ways, because we've already said a hundred times, it doesn't make sense, it would probably be 4 percent. And for 4 percent, I'd say it's not much for a rich country. For a rich country, not for a poor man. You can only imagine if someone has $50,000 a month's salary, or 5,000 a month, or 3,000 just to pay off the loan, or, say, 5,000. I mean, it's not much, but because he only has 50,000 tolars of wages, which he can't live with, he can't survive, he has to give 5,000 more to pay off the loan, he's actually reduced his income and he's going to live even harder, he can't live and he can't survive. But if he has one million wages, he can have 500,000 annuity. With 500,000 he can live forever and live it well. You see this comparison between the rich and the poor in the relationship - to have the same deficit because you say that these criteria of the European, the Maastricht or whatever they are called allow for higher deficits and other countries have a higher deficit. Of course they have a higher deficit, but these are rich countries! Germany, Sweden and so on. I don't know how much Sweden has, but I know about Germany. They have productivity three times higher than us. We have been working, mainly in the past - well, because this is historically conditioned - huge labour intensive industries and so on, there are not many added value per unit of product here. And our productivity and added value per unit of product know how low and how high it is in some Western European countries. Also, I don't know, somewhere I've read the data, maybe even ten times as high as we have. That says it all. When you see how poor and indebted you are. But that's not all! The worst part is that we have - this budget deficit is not at all a problem for me - but we have - in my opinion, if not more - at least 2,000 billion external debts according to the data of the Bank of Slovenia. Can you imagine 2,000 billion external debts? I calculated that it would be worth about 100 years before any Slovenian should eat a piece of bread. Let's recalculate the others, you'll see how much it weighs. Calculate how much bread is eaten in Slovenia. For 100 years, no Slovenian should eat a piece of bread! That way, the papal won't eat. In short, these are huge numbers. Who's gonna bring it back, I don't know. Which generation will bring it back, I don't know. I hope I don't have to do everything because it'll pick me up sooner. It almost makes no sense to lose words, but this regional policy has already been said by a colleague of Kangler's. How did you bring us around here? And the National Assembly, it's called regional development and this, and the National Assembly and the people on the ground, the local community. How you tricked us here, that's not true! That's not true! We have spent hundreds of millions of money, perhaps billions for employment and for programmes and so on, and almost no effects. Almost none. When's this gonna work? When this money is distributed fairly to those who really need it, it is not clear to me. And then even the new minister at some meeting - in Nova Gorica or where it was, I don't know, I don't remember exactly, Mr Strmšnik will probably be able to say. Recently, I happened to see this on television again to all those experts - probably experts in some area, I don't know exactly what they were, but they were neatly arranged, they certainly had to be very important - she lied to them again that Slovenia was already committed to regional development more than 1% of gross domestic product with some indirect and direct incentives and so on. I don't know how many times I've told you. And that's how you deceive and lie, worse than a dog runs! But nothing helps, you have authority, you have everything in your hands. In short, I am very sorry that we have not done what needs to be done in this area, in the area of regional policy, regional development. You know, those demographic assets, when we had a billion, two billion or so, you picked that up for us, and we can wipe ourselves under our noses at local levels. Not to mention the financing of municipalities, and so on, which are far-fed, under the European average, as we have already said a hundred times, but well, it doesn't matter. In short, I really don't know how we're gonna survive. Although the Minister said that we will have even more difficult times and difficult moments next year, even because we will have to put part of our budget in the budget of the European Community and we will get back, if we get it, for other purposes than it was allocated for this year. I say myself: because this Slovenian policy is such a bad master and such a lousy master that we have come so far as we are today, it is better to send the entire state budget to Brussels and get back to such and so distributed as is the only right, correct and effective. That's how it's done! Existing politics can't rule, that's definitely it. I hope there are other times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jerovsk to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I cannot welcome any minister because he is not here, although in my opinion it would not only be appropriate for the adoption of the budget documents, but it would be a duty for key ministers to sit here. And if we had anything to show in actual terms, progress since the previous adoption of the budget, then I'm sure we'd be sitting here. But since they're putting their heads in the sand, sending state secretaries, if they're already amortizing a negative impression, and actually, I have to say, even the deception of the public, which has been announced or happened, say, at the time of the adoption of the two-year budget. I myself went to see what the most important people in this country were saying when the 2003 and 2004 budget memorandum was presented and the 2004 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. That was, I think, October - that was 15.10.2002. Interesting period, just before the local elections. Mr Drnovšek was still in the role of President of the State and Mr Rop, today's Prime Minister, at the time as Finance Minister. And I must tell you that this people were told a fairy tale. A two-year budget solves all things in this country, relieves all pain, actually eliminates them. Today's finance minister wasn't on the government team until then. And look at the effects, I will only read two sentences from the exposé of the then Finance Minister, Mr Rob: "The constitutional objective of the public financial policy over the next two years is to reduce the financial deficit, to set a target structural deficit with possible use in a further limited cyclical deficit of the budget in the face of adverse economic conditions, allowing, to a limited extent, the self-balancing of cyclical movements and thus the management of the government's anti-cyclical economic policy and the reduction of the costs of public debt financing, to take into account the criteria of liquidity, security and profitability. The main objective of reducing the public financial deficit. After a few months of budget implementation, the new finance minister is obliged to recognise that the government deficit is increasing by 0.3%. After a few months, that's it. One item, which was so widely announced before the local elections by then Prime Minister Drnovšek and Minister of Finance Mr Rop, is not being implemented, although the government has made available all the institutions for macroeconomic research: clientele, state administration, 40,000 people working for the government and for that country. But since 10,000 people worked for this country, it has been when the country has gained independence or a little after that, when it has hired an additional 30,000, all these macroeconomic indicators have deteriorated. However, at the time of the adoption of the budget on 12.12.2002, at that time Mr Rob, the Minister, resigned, would point out once again, honourable Members and Members, that the management of the relatively debilitating public finances policy will lead to a reduction in the debt situation of a narrower country, measured as a share in the gross domestic product. Six months ago, there was another promise, because then he stood before he became Prime Minister next week. Of course, it was demagogy, a populism that was certainly aware and forecasted a debt of 27.9% gross domestic product at the end of the year, is expected to amount to 26.1 gross domestic product at the end of 2000. But now he hasn't shrunk, and now he's getting bigger. Look, this gap between reality and the ideals drawn by the government is increasing every day. And it's increasing in the most crucial segments where the consequences of poor public financial management, poor governance of the country, are felt by the greatest number of our citizens. Yesterday we passed a guarantee bill for the construction of the Oncology Institute. The government hired a loan, or Clinical Center, but with everything I read today, it seems to me that one Oncology Institute should also be done to treat the country. Public finances, the country is cancerous in all places. The metastases of some serious cancer occurred in all segments. I think it would be almost this, although the situation is extremely critical with cancer patients, almost better to find out the possibility of some operation, removing cancer cells from the country's body and no more being made by surgery, perhaps even amputation of some work. And the country's dealing with some cytostatics, that's what they say in medicine to prevent further growth in metastases. That's what they're offering us today. We know that on a human being, cancer is actually a deadly disease. And it's just as destructive on the body of the country. In that area, Minister Keber is taking pictures. I don't know what a nice picture. Here in the middle of the year, when it's not two months from election, they don't paint us a nice picture. But if there were two months of elections, of course, the picture would be very beautiful. What is particularly surprising to me, too, is that the new Minister, Mr Maramor, has found rumours and the causes only in external, macroeconomic conditions that have changed significantly. I think that since December, when Mr Rob spent these flowers on us, they haven't changed that way. Expectations were that they would change dramatically in a negative direction, that as a result of the upcoming war in Iraq, oil would be irradiated, although it was also said, I don't know, for two tolars. Twomimtudi on that data. It seems to me that it has generally been very cheap and will be cheap this year because there is also Iraqi oil on the market. That's what every institute predicts. Of course, it was a pleasant excuse to keep something from being wrong outside this cancerous body. In particular, a comparison was made with Germany, which is now a rare recession among all Western European countries. Compare with others, with Ireland, Finland, these are more comparable countries with us. Growth in added value, GDP and all the growth rates and inflation! No, we must experience once in this House in order to compare at some real level. And why is that, say, a state like this? The main objective of this rebalancing is to close the gap between the ideals given in the form of a two-year budget and, at least partly, to bring reality closer, although we will probably never have a government with this authority that is willing to actually look into the eyes or in front of the auditorium, the people, in front of television cameras to paint the reality. The government's primary objective is to save money. Something had to be done, and it's not a basic sin that there's a rebalancing on the table. Although, as I said at the outset, when they were making such an ideal prediction, they had all the economic indicators of all the institutes. But the opposition had nothing to do with it and correctly predicted what would happen. She's correctly predicted everything, even though she's being molested in public, that she's not real, that she's nervous, and so on. And who in this country can believe in the seriousness of saving or acting in such a way that all the revenue that needs to be recovered will flow into the state budget, let's say tax revenues, because there's a tax collection of taxpayers or those companies. Some pre-destined companies that have had good connections for years and years avoid paying taxes. That's where government services don't try to make money run in. Then the money from the sale of the property. See, Slovenia's development company - a bunch of cases is when the Slovenian development company that sold was trying to make a negative bid on the sale, because some owner was already in the predetermined period in which the company had to arrive, and despite the fact that there were competitors who offered the country substantially more, there was a mistake on each of them, and this is not reliable, only that it was sold as cheaply as possible. In such a course, countries cannot have sound finances. Instead of being interested in being sold at the highest possible price, while also pursuing certain other economic effects, it cannot continue to appear that the seller wants the lowest possible selling price. However, from what has been sold, most of the money, instead of running out, has been budgeted, but has been distributed through various intellectual services contracts, I don't know what services. I will mention only two: billions of awards to Elena's leadership and a million 200 marks of former awards, such as one related link with Elena's leadership, the Maribor vehicle factory. The contract states that the manager is entitled to 2.1% of the asset performance prize from the book value of the assets Today it has been shown that this book value of the assets is negative, but the prizes have been paid. In every way, they try to make as much money as possible disappear. There's a whole bunch of these cases. When the government sells apartments to senior LDS officials for half the free, even though they have been social workers for 10 years and have been subsidised at the rent, they have to be sold or given 50 square metres of housing for the nationals, 50 are bought, 50 are donated. The reckless treatment of money in connection with Falkon’s government aircraft has not been mentioned many times. It's a good thing he keeps mentioning himself. If it wasn't for the money technology, then it wouldn't have happened. But it is a government "know-how" and government officials then find it difficult to avoid respecting the government's "know-how". It is important to mention the levers of power that reach, say, the Municipality of Ljubljana, SIB Bank, billions have gone. It's also the money of this country, and you'll say it's not direct from the budget. Then the country must fill the gap in a different way. The Director of the Government Anti-Corruption Office said that legislation covering corruption was being adopted. We have recently had two such laws: the Banks Act, however, we have warned that there are insurmountable possibilities or those connected persons who are shaping and paddling in Slovenia. A reporter in Finance pointed out that these are incestuous connections, constantly the same people everywhere. But we didn't make it. It was about protecting their interests. The Public Finance Act is similar. When I compare what has been promised, I must say that there has been a promise of a terrible increase in money for science, how everything will improve. Yesterday, however, I was at the opening of a conference at the Faculty of Law on Science, where the Prime Minister and, in the first place, the whole government were. They were not so optimistic and so beautiful promises, and even worse, they referred to those in the economy and science. But there I saw that this was not fulfilled, which was promised. And, of course, the funds are shrinking in the balance sheet. My predecessor already spoke about regional development or the allocation of these incentives by regional distribution. And it is also strange why the deprived regions with the lowest percentages are involved. I have consistently argued that the incentives in any area are to be turned around the most here in the center for the time being. Government officials order, do a project at that and that development institute, go there, and by the time it comes to realization or some net amount, 50% of the money has already gone. Unemployment. There was a really nice picture of how this is going to go down. Last week, we had a women's protest, an unbearable social distress, job withdrawal, women said the government was also encouraging the closure of businesses, so that they could come into exactly the right hands. I have asked the question of the Member of Parliament. This Parliament voted that the response of Minister Dimovski was not appropriate. If I had answered only what was promised in December and October by Mr Rob, I would have been responsible for the appropriate and satisfactory. But then the results would also be on the ground. The results on the field, well, unfortunately, we can't see. We could go through different areas. It seems to me that, unfortunately, this budget rebalancing cannot be supported because it contains such indicators, contains such trends, I am not saying that it is necessary, but that it is a major sin that is here before us. But it doesn't show any good, improved condition. That's why I won't support him either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The treatment of this year's rebalancing is sad, but at the same time a tragic story that will affect the rurals in particular affects the robberies, particularly those parts of Slovenia and the Slovenian population that are already on the verge of being separated and, unfortunately, after electoral mathematics, they do not constitute an essential factor in not being directly touched by this proposal for a rebalancing. The repetition of the malnutrition of the local communities of most Slovene municipalities has already been twisted. 165 out of 185 are not receiving adequate financial treatment. On purpose, I'd say adequate financial compensation. An unacceptable law in the field of local self-government is tolerated, with a maximum of 165 largely rural municipalities not ensuring normal functioning. Unfortunately, Slovenia therefore ranks on the tail of European countries, which allocate the smallest share of gross social product for local self-government by a total of 5 per cent of gross social product. But this is an old song that we can only add to it by not implementing the law on coherent regional development, and I don't think I've said anything new about it either. I am surprised, however, that there is no Minister for Agriculture here today as a number of government representatives. At the time of adoption of the 2003 and 2004 budget, Mr Franci But expressed his dissatisfaction with the amount of funds allocated to agriculture. According to his statement, these 58 and several billion tolars are by no means sufficient to allow appropriate Slovenian agriculture, which is an essential part of the countryside, to be adequately prepared for the entry of the European Union in order to adequately prepare itself for the expected price pressure, for an expected 20 % or more reduction in the buying-in prices of agricultural crops. For this reason, I am even more surprised, and I cannot believe that Mr Minister has so easily agreed that the Ministry of Agriculture has been given the highest percentage of the budget balance. The biggest restrictions - a billion and 500 million tolars are taken to the Ministry of Agriculture! If this is due to a new assessment of the situation, an improved situation or that there is no need for agriculture at all, then I would be most satisfied. I do not understand, however, that with the left hand the funds of the budget user are being reduced - measures to stabilise the market to take 235 and a few more million for the actions of the Slovenian agri-environment programme, these are areas with more difficult conditions, eco 1, Slovenia's agricultural environment programme, eco 2, eco 3, renewal and regulation of pastures - while at the same time we grow 70 and more hectares of agricultural land. Incomprehensible, incomprehensible, but for a hint, I think that this ignorance of government representatives has not even been explained to us in the National Assembly. If I move forward with rural development, the same budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture - 81 million less and general services in agriculture, agricultural services. On the one hand, we note that the advisory service is still absolutely necessary and the only guarantee to educate our farmer is to prepare the operation in the European Union. On the other hand, the Minister of Agriculture easily agrees to withdraw more than 330 million for financing services already under way. A completely different story and a similar story, which has several other political bots, is the financing of a public forestry service. The financing of the public forestry service clearly reflects the inappropriate management of state forests, which, last but not least, is supported by the agricultural minister and this government. If the state forests, over 250,000 hectares of the highest quality, the most vital forests, as far as forests are concerned, were managed in a manner such as chica, the role of a good host, it would be easy to cover these 300 and several million tolars that are lacking to finance the public forestry service, but we do not allow that 4 and several billion tolars as a result of poor management remain in the form of profits to the owners of 14 forest holdings that the government or the Minister of Agriculture has entrusted to them for the next 20 years. See, this is totally incomprehensible, completely contradictoryO and I think, the Minister of Finance should ask whether and how it can be allowed that four or more billion dollars of potential government revenue can be released from the hands of the forest office. However, in continuing to reduce funds for the public economic service, there is a distorted scenario, namely, that this service should be reduced in order to control the management of these 14 forest holdings in the state forests and therefore this reduction in resources. Transparently but clearly, what policy option is behind this scenario, which will have long-term negative consequences for rural development and for the fate of our forests. It is also totally incomprehensible to think of the situation that is being recorded on our watercourses and, in the face of the pressing problem of flood safety, the reduction of resources for the water economic service, specifically on the budget user, which is intended to regulate watercourses. See, already the soaring resources, which have been constantly declining in the last decades for water management, are further decreasing, resulting in immense damage to urban areas, which the state must cover in one way or another. It's completely incomprehensible to me, too, I'll say, this gesture in the fact that the Minister of Education explains a lot how the schooling society that we are. For a 20% reduction in investment in secondary education, I also mean consequently disabled access to, or non-equitable conditions for, education. However, I am very disturbed and do not understand why there has been such a reduction in the regression of the student diet, as we note that most of our health services have found that these are not my findings that most of our primary and secondary schoolchildren are severely eating unhealthyly, irregularly and poorly. Family benefits and parental benefits are projected to decrease by up to 520 million. This is an additionally incomprehensible matter in the fact that the Slovenians are shrinking and that the birthrate is falling. Such incentives should be increased. There has already been a lot of talk about regional development, the fact that the budget rebalancing also reduces direct regional incentives, which are no longer worth mentioning in comparison to or higher than the agreed law on coherent regional development in 1999, to reduce funds for the establishment and operation of regional structural policy systems, and other regional incentives remain interestingly all the funds that have been planned so far at the Ministry of Economy for Financing Institutions for Regional Development, and we also devote 318 million to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for structural policy and regional development. It is totally incomprehensible to me that the proposed reduction of the specific budget reserve and aid programmes in the event of natural disasters or the reserve of the Republic of Slovenia is once for a billion years and at the Ministry of Environment and Space of Special Programmes in the case of disasters for a further 303 million. This indicates that the rebalance proposers or this government do not at all indicate what is happening in the environment in Slovenia. Krušev's burn, severe drought, a complete stalemate in the rehabilitation of smaller-scale beaches, for which municipalities have invested huge funds for the preparation of projects, are facts that speak against the planned reduction. When we spoke to the Committee on Agriculture on Pear Burns, we found that we could use, so far, the level of budgetary resources, 42 million directly from the reserve, the fact that it was announced and that the Minister had announced, the government had announced the adoption of an intervention law in this area. Not to talk about drought alone, but we're only six months old. With all these facts, it is completely incomprehensible to reduce the funds of the budget reserve of the Republic of Slovenia. There has also been a lot of talk about where these budgetary resources are being spent irrationally. I think, and I just want to mention the first sheet. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, without any particular problems, this item has increased by a total of 100 million. However, I think it could be done on this, not only on this, but on the other items, which also clearly result in the fact that wages and contributions in this budget balance have increased by even a billion and 700 million. This clearly indicates that this spending, or that this state administration is wasteful and at the expense of public sector wages, is normally reduced in the administration's salary, and the budget areas are normally needed for life. Above all, once again, I am extremely surprised and not so surprised, rather sad that this budget has once again affected the most marginal population of the Republic of Slovenia. It has affected rural areas, which is not surprising at all, and has become more normal, because these and such procedures of the government and such an attitude towards rural areas have led to fewer and fewer voters living in this rural area and, therefore, not to be expected to have a major reaction or revolt, and such measures are quite understandable to me. In any case, I will not support such a budget rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. Now Ivan Kebrich is also listed. If anyone else wants to discuss it, please sign up. Ivan Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister and other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In our debate on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Minister, we have given you a number of critical thoughts in good faith, all in order to be constructive in order to improve the functioning of your department and the government's functioning in the mandate that remains for us. I will not repeat certain things, although I have been running out of time before, because our Group of Members has very little at its disposal, but I hope that you will not only be out of our debate, but also from the debate of all Members and Members who are well-meaning, constructively making proposals in their implementations, which I hope you will bring to the government. In view of the short time, I will narrow down what I have said, and I will ask you, given that you have 15 minutes of time to answer on behalf of the government, a few questions that I expect in the interest of this National Assembly your specific answers that will clarify the situation for us at the end of the debate today, when the time of the vote is right, we can decide whether we will support this proposal for a rebalancing or whether we will have any concerns. First of all, from my implementation, the question arises to me how you intend to reject the fall not only of industrial production, but of the economy with regard to the proposal or the budget adopted and the comparison with last year and, of course, what you said in your introductory address is what the problems are, and if the problems are, we expect from your side of the solution to these problems. If you need the help of the National Assembly, we are all or I and others firmly convinced that we will support you in constructive proposals to amend the laws needed, and as far as the regulations are concerned, settle this on your own in the government. The second question is how do you think the stagnation or freezing of wages in a particular public sector or in another part of the public sector will affect so that they do not increase, in your opinion, what will be the real wage growth, which is the only basic generator for greater consumption. If we freeze them all, they'll stagnate, that's what those tides you ordered in the balance sheet will not be able to be realized. The next question is whether you think there will be a certain number of unpaid accounts in the government at the end of the year. How much is that, if you assume that, how long will this take for the second year? And we're going to be facing the same problem that you told us last year, how many bills were not paid. They had to be transferred to this year and went to the budget this year. I have a little more time. I'll ask you one more question. What measures will you take as Minister of Finance and Government to encourage you to recover taxes? We have indicated how many, according to certain data available to us, unrecovered taxes amount to 170 million. How many of these are inexhaustible, at least after the statements we received? How many expendable persons are there, and how are you going to recover this in order to significantly reduce the tax debt for the Republic of Slovenia? We cannot agree with the comforting fact that there is somewhere else, some other countries are getting worse. We will not follow the bad ones, let us imitate the better ones. If we follow better examples, we'll get to the green branch sooner if we think that this branch we're sitting on is not green. I believe that it is justified to expect concrete answers to these questions on behalf of the National Assembly, as you will have fifteen minutes to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you. Anton Butolen has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u46	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament have a nice greeting. Thank you for your word. Before us is the budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia. It was probably very difficult to draw up either a budget or a balance that would satisfy everything and whether it was municipal or state. It is, of course, particularly difficult to ensure satisfaction with the balance if we accept it in difficult, macroeconomic conditions and if it goes down. Nevertheless, I would like to say that I myself assess that the preparation of the rebalancing by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a proper response to the changing conditions of world governance. It is certain that the Slovenian economy is small and, as such, is even more subject to changes in the international market. We know that such changes have a negative impact on a much larger economy than ours. Therefore, I believe that the answers to the reduction of the gross product are not only excuses for the international situation, but are facts. I would like to tell the Minister not to follow Ireland as it was said here. The growth in Ireland is only 0.3, but at least that's what I got, 3.1. This is said to be ten times less gross domestic product growth in Ireland than we do, and such a look would be really bad. Certainly the objective fact that in all European developed countries this growth is much smaller, four times smaller across the European community, is 0.8%. We're still expecting 3.1%. But surely, I agree with that, the revenues could be increased by an appropriate tax reform. I appeal to the government and the minister to do so as soon as possible. I hope that the opposition will support these efforts. However, I could not agree with the assessment that, in fact, the so-called deindexation and tax policy have a negative impact on the development of the economy - inflation regulation, interest rate policy, the so-called deindexation and tax policy, set the conditions of the economy and have a greater impact on the economy than on short-term measures. If our economic growth is still four times greater than in the European Community, I believe that these measures are appropriate, but they could certainly be even better. Of course, I agree here. However, as far as expenditure is concerned, I would like to say that this country has invested in education and science in recent years, which has been very evident today, several times more than any other country and significantly more than in the last 50 years. But I fully agree with the opposition when it comes to coherent regional development. It is completely incomprehensible that there are increasing disparities between regions in increasing funds for regional development. Perhaps, Mr Minister, the first step would be to reduce these differences in order to adhere to the law on the financing of municipalities, and we all find that it is bad. However, we note that the calls made by individual ministries are at a fixed percentage. Despite the fact that the Community Funding Act says that the country’s funding range for individual projects is between 10% and 70%. Thus, in fact, some small municipalities do not apply at all because we simply do not know what to do or cannot close the investment with 20% of those who would be able to obtain it. While this is likely to concern more budget implementation, since the Ministry of Finance agrees on individual investments, it would be right for you to think about it in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you. And then there's the final interviewer, Comrade Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today we have heard a lot about this budget rebalancing, about working with public finances and so on, so I wouldn't repeat it, because my speakers have already said a lot about it. But I'd like to point out a very specific problem. At the outset, I would like to say that, when we adopted the basic budget in the opposition, we have already given much warning as to what is wrong with this budget, whether it is good or not, whether the solutions are not satisfactory. However, I regret to say that we were somewhat ridiculed at the time. Not only did you not give us the right, but you made fun of us. Then we could also read this in a variety of comments about our positions, how to have no idea how to be wrong. But the fact is, we have a rebalance ahead of us now. But the balance means someone was planning something wrong. A peaceful soul can use the term wrong planning, regardless of whether we have completely passed or perhaps the circumstances in which we work have changed. It is true that the world's public is quite upset, but fortunately, I will say that these situations are not so influential in our budget that we can say that this is the basic source and root cause of these problems that we have and that we have to accept the budget's rebalancing. On the contrary, I'm going to say another sentence about this later. The fact is that the Government's assumptions that prepared this budget were wrong, that they were wrong and that the assumptions were wrong. It is also a fact that there should be no excuse for why we have such a situation, "at least others have problems". That is true, but if a priori were absolutely so, then we would not have any country that is above average, successful, above average. And we have countries like that. Regardless of whether some other countries, including their main partners, have any problems such as this or not. It's not the best excuse either. We should probably imitate ourselves, or at least those who want to do something good are following those who are better than you, not those who are bad, but who may still have problems. This is especially important in the light of the fact that oil is essentially cheap. It is simply almost incomprehensible how we were appalled that oil was cheaper. That is to say, if oil is now the factor that can cause it to stagger or make it difficult for the economy, then it is not. You could say the opposite. The fact is, at the same prices of oil derivatives on the domestic market, we could make more money, and the country could make more money. That is to say, if this were the underlying cause, we could have a rebalance up by now. More rebalancing up because more money would be raised in the state treasury, but obviously it didn't happen, it went the other way around. Despite the fact that we now have a rebalancing that is proof of some wrong planning, I would like to say that this rebalancing is also not realistic and does not take account of the actual situation and is not built on the expected state. Again, something was forgotten, I don't know whether consciously, or not able to predict again, that we didn't know what the right hand was doing, that the left didn't know what the right hand was doing or the other way around, that no one thought it was an ideological omen, but it wasn't. I mean, we don't know what one organ is doing here and how the other should react. And this is now the specific case that I want to point out. In our country, too much attention is given to the status of so-called deleted. Who invented such a term, I don't know, I don't think it's good because it's about people, people just can't be erased, but it is. The Constitutional Court has made its own statement. The decisions of the Constitutional Court must be regretted or, fortunately, respected. But it's true whether someone agrees or not. That's another thing. I hope to state, with full responsibility, that this was some kind of political acrobatics and some political formulation of the situation that this decision came into being. But the decision is here. As a result of this decision, it will cost between 600 and 800 billion tolars. We have already talked about this several times in this House, but some did not want to, did not want to, did not succeed, were unable to hear it. The question is, where is this number going to stop? Thus, it is a half-year budget of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a five-year investment part of the budget in Slovenia, whether someone likes it or not. I'm not, but I'm sorry. This money will have to provide the budget. It is true that this sum will not be totaled this year, but the fact is that the action will begin because the recovery of this situation will have to be carried out within a certain period of time on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. If we don't, we'll just be breaking the rules about the Constitutional Court again. That's probably not what we'd want. Whoever cooked this will also have to cool it down and eat it. The fact is that the lawsuits will start to rain, then, of course, the case will have to be resolved in the courts. Although I am sure that in court they will respond as they respond to all the other things, that it will take a few years and these matters will not be resolved, they will just move forward. However, I am sure that in this case, the courts will probably work faster if such a decision has been reached by the Constitutional Court, then this is a matter such as not to comment. It is also a fact that this will have to be financially regulated. This means that we will have to secure, reserve financial resources for this issue. The fact is, we're going to a political game with people. The one who accepted it will have to carry it out to the end in any case, but the matter is serious. So far, it has not been observed that those who should monitor the matter should take this seriously. Either they don't want to hear it or they don't want to hear it or they think they're going to avoid it elegantly. It won't work, gentlemen. Just as we have warned when we adopt the budget on all the difficulties that will arise from this budget, it has now proved that we are right, so this will also be the case. Sure it's not finished yet, but this one's gonna have to come. Unfortunately, for once, there is no other solution than that money will have to be prepared. I don't see any tolar in this rebalancing, at least I don't see it, but if it's anywhere else shown, which is also possible, and it wouldn't be anything wrong, but please correct me and I'll take what I said on this account as I said, and I'll take it back in good faith. I have a feeling that this is not the case, so this balance doesn't seem to be the same as all the events that are expected to come to us in one way or another. That's why I don't think it's real and I don't think it's real enough and not built on enough realistic assumptions. Just as the right budget has surprised us, so this will surprise us. But, unfortunately, this political game, about this topic that I've pointed out, you can't see that someone is taking it seriously. At least the government doesn't see it because it's not financially valued. The second is verbal assurances, verbal assumptions, verbal support. There's something completely different about this. And the implementation of this means nothing more than the provision of huge funds, as we have already said in this House, between 600 and 800 billion. Since this is not foreseen anywhere, as I've been giving, I don't think this balance is real enough. To explain my voice, I'm not going to support the balance because the problems are going to get bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you. I would therefore like to conclude a debate between the Members and Members, because we have exhausted all the declarations and would like to give the floor to the Government, to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, or, if necessary, to Mrs Helena Kamnar, the Secretary of State. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would focus on some of the key issues that you have raised in your discussion. Perhaps first of all, Dr. Bajuk, Mr. Vizjak, Mr. Kebrič, about the tax debt was a question. The issue of tax debt is usually raised at the time of the budget rebalancing. The question that has also arisen is not to answer the question of comparability with others. One thing is that this comparability is actually difficult to achieve, but the other is that it is necessary to reduce or do everything at home by means of measures so that this tax deadline is as low as possible. I have told you many times that we are preparing systemic changes in this area. Even this set of tax laws should also be made possible by tax procedure and with greater clarity, the definition of tax laws should make it possible to collect more effectively. The second part relating to this system regime is informationisation. Finally, information has been obtained through a comprehensive informing of the tax administration, which will allow for a significantly better review. The next area, which is slightly outside our ministry, but within the government, is the judicial backlog in the area of expulsion, as mentioned above. This is a problem, and this is what we have discussed with the President of the Supreme Court for the last time, and we will do everything possible to ensure that the judicial backlog, especially in this area, is the most important thing that affects the tax debt, is as effective as possible. Then there are purely technical matters about the way in which debt is expressed. Other countries mainly have a 5-year debt statement, then the debt writes off, we have a 10-year-old in Slovenia, then we have these special high interest rates that they don't have in other countries. Now with the removal of TOM and a fixed interest rate, we have slightly reduced this. Then it's a debt issue, it's the one who'll never be able to be recovered to show off as a debt. So, more technical stuff, from display to more efficient collection. From this point of view, I have said that we will do everything we can to ensure that the tax debt is as low as possible, although with the data we have, I will point out, however, that we are among the countries, among the countries that have one of the lowest tax debts in the share of the gross domestic product. The second question raised was - Dr. Podobnik, Mr Štemberger and Mr Peče - the relevance of the two-year budget. Yeah, that's the question. I totally agree with you. When situations that are unstable, when there is a recession, then two-year planning is, of course, questionable. This two-year budget works well when there is a stable economy or when it grows. Of course, from this point of view, we are now coming into the period that is most problematic because it is most unstable, and we are studying the possibility of rationalisation in this area so that, for these periods, which are like now, we can make this budget more rational - for the second year, not for the first year, it must be the same as it is. The next question raised by Mr Vizjak and Mr Grošelj, which I think is very important in relation to the balance sheet, is to reduce social security items and active employment policies. In this regard, I would say that this should be seen only a little wider. Because if we just look at the difference between the budget adopted in 2003 and between this balance, you have an increase in growth in social protection. With the budget adopted, the growth was 9.9% in the balance sheet of 14.4% and the increase in the share of gross domestic product by 0.17%, according to the budget adopted. It is said that the balance here of course does not decrease; these jumps were even higher if we went to watch years ago. The same applies to active employment policy. Real growth was projected in the approved budget for 2003 at 2.8% and 3.4% in this balance sheet. So that we are very social in this area, I fear that, for certain elements in certain areas, there is still too much potential in terms of the competitiveness of the economy; other countries are now checking this social note where it is not well targeted and where it is not well targeted, these groups that are most socially at risk reduce the scope of social transfers because it has an enormous impact on the competitiveness of the economy. Such a typical country that is now going through this is Germany, with Austria and France. The next question, which often arises - Mr Vizjak, Mr Kebrič - was how this reduction in investment expenditure and in this context the stagnation of wages affects economic growth. First of all, I'd like to go on investment expenditure. In this context, I would like to say that we are one of the largest shares of public investment among virtually all countries. We have 3% of gross domestic product from the investment budget and investment transfers, which is huge. If we add, say, just the highway loans, we're at 4% of the gross domestic product. This is a very large proportion and, of course, if we now finance this share mainly with loans, with loans, it is a question of what these investments are - some affect economic growth, some do not affect economic growth. If these investments are cars, in particular, not made at home, but abroad, if they are computers that we are changing too quickly and so on - it is said, the structure of these investments should be seen and then seen how they affect economic growth: they influence or do not influence. We have gone through this structure and looked together with the UMAR, what is the impact on the economic growth of these investments that we have reduced, and we have made sure that it has practically not affected economic growth. The same is true of wages. If wages are stagnated in the public sector, the question is, of course, whether wage increases in the public sector would be financed by loans. Of course, financing with wage loans is very problematic and is in the long run - I completely agree with Mr Pecett - bad. The next question that has arisen several times, and here I have to, excuse me, a little as a professor to perform, but I can't get out of my skin. "The pessimistic scenario is more likely, forecasts are inadequate, we know what will happen to the price of oil" and so on. Excuse me, the current world economy situation, especially oil, is such that no forecast is ready. Nobody knows exactly what will happen to the oil price this year. Yesterday I had an interview, three days there was an oil expert who was sent to us from the International Monetary Fund, a pardon, the World Bank and I asked him yesterday: "Can you tell me?" because he is one of the biggest experts, "what will happen to the price of oil?" And he gave me everything, but there'll be so much and so much extra oil pumping in Iraq, for some I didn't even know about, and he said in the end, "I don't know what's going to happen to the price of oil." What do we take? Then we take those forecasts that these global institutions are making and, say, here is an institution like the International Monetary Fund, which just predicted a 27.8 dollar average oil price this year, which is 2.8 dollars more than we had in the budget last year. Also, which forecast is most likely. You have different forecasts from different institutes, including weights, which are the risks of individual forecasts. And from this we have also made the most likely forecast, 3.1% on the UMAR, and of course some conservative forecast, which has been known since we were doing the budget, this budget rebalance, 2.7%. We knew her, but her probabilities were relatively low, and the other was more than 3.1, which had a certain probability. This is how we take what is most likely, that economic growth can be lower and, of course, in this case a fiscal stabiliser, which we have also proposed in this budget, is used. That's what I'd say, the credibility of the government, whether it says exactly by the end of the year or not. I don't know, I don't know anyone who knows exactly how to predict, and, of course, every year, what will happen to exports, imports, consumption and so on. That's not possible. Of course, the only one who knows about this future is a snooze. Thus, from this point of view, we point out the best that models can do, and in this case, 28 billion falls out if we look at what else was not possible to predict, and how the Constitutional Court will decide what will be the exact fall in consumption and then the impact on VAT last year. If that's 43 billion, they made a 4% mistake last year. Such a mistake is not very great in such unstable situations. That'll be all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Any other government representatives? Please, Mr. Stromnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u52	Dear Members. I would briefly touch on the discussions of Mr Kangler, Mr Kelemina, Mr Jerovska, Mr Sušnik, which discussed the issue of promoting coherent regional development in relation to the budget. The government is coming to this Parliament with a report, it will be addressed in September, and with a range of measures it intends to take in the area of regional development. So far from being satisfied with the situation that governs regional development. However, we also come from data that has been misused several times today. Indeed, around 80 billion development incentives exist after this report, identified by individual ministries, and these billions are co-financing projects from regional development programmes. A recalculation has also been carried out for 2002 where the funds are located. And if they are converted to residents, then the aid to Pomurje is about once greater than the aid in the central Slovenian region. So for regional differences of 1.7 to 1 between Pomour and central Slovenia, the government's development policy directs development incentives in the ratio of 2 to 1. Whether that is enough or not is the subject of the debate we will have in this House and the measures we are proposing. And we believe that there is not enough and that additional measures are needed. However, it is wrong to take one call from a single ministry and discuss how these funds are allocated regionally. It's a great advance that we have this information. We have them on the Internet and the Ministry of Economy here is particularly active, it publishes them all. However, it is extremely wrong, following one call, for example for funding higher education institutions, which we know are mostly located in Ljubljana and Maribor, we prove the wrong distribution of funds and the wrong location for Pomurje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. And the minister wants one explanation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u54	Excuse me, Mr. Kebrich, I owe you two more answers. First, how to reverse the decline in economic growth. This is exactly what we want to do with all the measures that I mentioned at the outset. Of course, these measures, which I have mentioned, relate to the macroeconomic environment. Of course, there is a whole range of measures that are not only within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, and of course there are investments in infrastructure, education, research and development. Here we need to significantly accelerate the restructuring of individual sectors, which is what the Ministry of Economy is doing for this comprehensive competitiveness policy, etc. In short, here's a whole range of activities that we're trying to achieve an opportunity for economic development. Of course, once again, I would point out that it does not make sense to base economic development on the deficit of the budget, it is a matter of being in charge of financing certain sectors, unless the return on such investments is very high. And also, if there's any outstanding accounts at the end of the year, that's why this is the balance. I would like to, and so we planned that we would not have any unpaid accounts by the end of this year, because 2004 will be very problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you. I've concluded the debate. We got the answers. We're not gonna end this. I called you earlier, you signed up, and the minister was the last one to give any answers. I'd like to give you five minutes' rest before I make my decision. It is thus agreed that all Members shall be gathered. We'll vote the other way around, or yes. [[...]] All right, let's go, I call on all Members and Members to come to the Chamber to vote! Colleagues and colleagues! We will move on to a decision on the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Please calm down, make sure you have the cards inserted so there will be no voting errors. We're moving to the vote. Before that, I have an explanation for the vote. Comrade Sasha Peca, explanation of vote, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u56	Your Honor! In the National Party, we estimate that it would be reasonable and wise, given that we are today talking about an act that has not only consequences in the present, but also in the future, to complement the general debate with at least two hours of debate. The fact is that the debates were linked both to social policy and to the future economic development of the country and to the fundamental development programmes at the end. Throughout the debate it was possible that the state budget and public finances were not satisfactory, they did not satisfy Members, but citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I also personally assess that the responses of the Minister of Finance were inconsistent, and in some ways they even showed an attitude towards public finances by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. A comparative analysis of Slovenian social policy transfers with transfers intended for this area, for example, in Germany, as said by Minister Marble, cannot possibly be sustained. The fact is that the desire for voluntary unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia is also different compared to some other countries within the European Union. And from this we cannot possibly drive parallel and say that 300,000 people in our country are voluntarily unemployed. We further assess that a speech on the credibility of the Slovenian government [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u57	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u58	does not hold to the extent stated by the Minister of Finance. [[...]] The fact is that the Slovenian government, with all credibility and awareness, at least as assessed, took place before this National Assembly in 2001 at the time of the adoption of the budget for this year and said that the objective of public finances is stabilisation, which we also estimate is not true. We further assess that the speech on regional policy initiated by some fellow Members is important to this extent, and I ask you to extend the general debate for two hours so that we can discuss the fundamental directions for the development of our country. Please, if you're also taking the proposal procedurally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u59	It was not an explanation of vote, but a procedural proposal in explanation of vote. Anyone else want to explain their voice? Nobody. We're moving to the vote. Jez Juban. Please. Excuse me, thank you. Nobody. Thank you. I conclude my explanation of vote and move on to the vote. We're voting. 64 present, 48 for, 15 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 15.]] What was wrong, Comrade Barovich? The voting device didn't work? Is it working now? May I repeat the vote? That won't be necessary. So, the result as it was. Thank you very much. I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Who wants a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u60	I'm sorry, I have no intentions, I voted against it anyway, as the party predicted, but I really didn't have the card, and I think it's fair and fair to repeat the vote. I checked in on time. It's just a matter of procedural and honest work. I won't change any opinion, but she really didn't work for me. Mr. President saw it, too. I think it's fair to say it again. I don't think you can get past me, but I did say my voice, but it didn't show it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u61	We interrupt for five minutes to find out if the voting device really didn't work to check out the print.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u62	Look, she really didn't work, Mr. President of the National Assembly himself took away no need for a break, she really didn't. [[...]] There is no need for a recess, I ask only to repeat the vote, the result will be one more vote against. Nothing else. But I want my voice included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u63	Without the service's conclusion that the voting device really didn't work, I'm not going to repeat the vote. So take a moment to check it out. Colleagues and colleagues, could I have your attention, please? His voice is really not on the record. I apologize, I have not seen the time before the vote, but the President and others confirm this, so I will repeat the vote on the general work of proposing the 2003 budget rebalancing. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. I'm at 66. The vote was 47 to 18. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. Who wants a word? Comrade Bogdan Barovich. I'm sorry, my colleague Aloise Sok was here before, and I didn't see him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Honourable Minister and other representatives of the government. Fellow Members and Members! I would like to talk, within the time available, about the specific part of the budget, namely agriculture, forestry and nutrition. Today something has already been said about this, but of course I would like to draw attention to one fact, namely, that the harvest began this year in the Republic of Slovenia in Pomour. According to the data we were able to read, the crop drop is horrendous. About 70% are mentioned there, and somewhere in Primorje, it is said that grain will not even be paid for its damage to the harvest. As this budget rebalancing was being prepared, we adopted several laws under the urgent procedure for the purposes of this rebalancing, including the Ministry of Regional Development, then the Dars guarantee to Dars for more than 60 billion tolars. In New Slovenia, however, we are concerned that this catastrophic drought, which meteorologists say has not dropped less precipitation in 150 years than this year, is not a word in this budget. And I must say that the affected in the countryside are expected - and since the question before was whether we would accept another balance, I hope that this will be absolutely necessary. In some ways, the consequences of this disaster will have to be mitigated. And that's not the only one. In addition to drought, there is also, of course, a so-called plant disease of pear burns, which also causes major economic damage. What bothers us in this particular part of the budget is that this balance sheet of the budget removes funds for a project to establish an agricultural mutual insurance company. We've been talking about this for years. The government promises a system law to mitigate these consequences of natural disasters. On the other hand, the replacement of this law or the replacement of a project to establish an agricultural mutual insurance company is easily terminated. It was not a large resource for this purpose, a total of just over 86 million, but it is still proposed that this rebalancing be eliminated. However, if we look at the development plans, these development plans re-emerge the creation of a mutual agricultural insurance company in 2004 and 2005. We are convinced that such an approach is not correct and that the Government's explanation, if it is too small a means to establish such a mutual insurance company, is not the right one. If the funds were too small or too small in this area, then we would expect the government, from all those in charge of this area, to increase their activities and eventually do more on this project than has been done so far. See, droughts are constants in our space, and other natural disasters are occurring to us, and ever-increasing resources will also be needed to mitigate these natural disasters. The second thing that has already been mentioned here today, although agricultural damage due to drought will be enormous, that there is no funding for this in the current budget rebalancing, the budget reserve is significantly decreasing, from 7.1 billion to 4.9 billion dollars. Such a reduction in the budget reserve means, of course, that the government does not seriously intend to face these catastrophic consequences, which, of course, will not be easy and will not be good before Slovenia enters the European Union. I think it would be necessary to adopt an intervention law quickly in this area and to help all those who feel these consequences most in some way. Farmers also expect this help, they need it, and we must be aware that those who give quickly actually do it twice. In this context, I propose that the Government consider this or if it is still possible to respond in this particular part of the budget, why it so decided, and to respond to all those who, of course, are monitoring this debate today, how and how you will help in the event of this natural disaster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u65	Peace in the hall! Thank you very much, colleague Sok. I'm asking for a little more peace in the hall so that I don't interrupt the speakers during the show! If no one else wants to discuss it, we'll move on to a decision on the amendments. Master Kramberger, did you want a word before deciding on the amendments before the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u66	I will also include one amendment in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u67	Look, if you agree, I suggest we go from amendment to amendment, and in the case of amendments that you think would be appropriate, please contact us. We've got quite a few. Would you like to do it before that, Comrade Rokavec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I would like to join my colleague Sok in the final debate, in particular on the specific issue as well as on the general budget reserve, which is actually falling by almost 3 billion in the proposal for the rebalancing of this year's budget. Indeed, the fact is that Slovenia and agriculture have been affected by two natural disasters, which can be faced at the moment, both with a cartilage burn and a drought that actually has very large dimensions throughout the continent. And here I would like the Government or Mr Minister to answer the question of how the government will address this issue in the light of the reduction of the budget reserve; in what way it will approach the resolution of this issue, because I believe that the problem is, above all, already so large a drought this year, that it will have to be resolved in some way also within the framework of the intervention law. At this point, the question is in fact how much resources are available on this item and how the government will deal with the aid affected by the drought this year, not to mention the burning of pears and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u69	Please, here's your buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At today's meeting, if I am well aware, the government discussed the preliminary damage in agriculture, as it relates to pears burns as it did this year's drought, and entrusted the relevant authorities with the preparation of two intervention laws. I personally estimate that this is on all the problems that are, as quickly as possible and I am sure, given what has been said in the general debate on the working body of the mother—I also highlighted this in the introductory report - by the Ministry of Finance, it was explained how the damage will be covered by drought or clumps in this year. I believe that the government representatives present here can say this once again in order to clarify the issues raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u71	If anyone wants, he can have this option, otherwise we will conclude this part of the debate and move on to the debate on the amendments and, of course, decide on them. Okay. Then I will now lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budgetary user to whom the amendments are tabled. I'll ask for your attention in the hall. Of course, if anyone so desires, he will have a word before making a decision. First of all, I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the sub-programme: the operation of services and public institutions with the budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Does anyone want a word about it? Comrade Juban, please. And a fellow magician. Kramberger, a fellow Komljanec, etc. Let's go in one order. First, my colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not going to support the amendment under probably the number one that's ahead of us. The reason is as follows. It's unusual for me for the first time that it's exactly 349 million. Another time. The government of this amendment does not support it. The reasons are well known for several times the performances of the Prime Minister and probably the Minister of Finance, that the state in this department will not increase funding for services, but that the funds will increase for production financing. The amendment is quite contrary to this position and I think the position of the government here is correct. Third time. It is true that much needs to be done with the organisation of the public forestry service, including its financing, its competences and perhaps more, but this solution will not be solved. The possible wage relationship is also being resolved in a different way, not an amendment in this way. The most important thing - some colleagues mentioned earlier in the debate - in this situation, taking up the production of funds and making them available to any service is totally unacceptable and unfair. The current situation, which is -- what you're saying around the drought -- I think we're still not familiar with the situation as it is. The conditions surrounding the occurrence of the disease, the loss of the market due to chloranphenicol, which has not been studied and should be investigated very quickly and thoroughly in this country - behind there are very strange stories - problems in the processing industry, price decline - are such that production is currently being taken is unacceptable. And, of course, I will not support this amendment and I ask you to reconsider your decision not to support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u73	Let's go, like I said before, in a row. Mag. Kramberger, now you have the floor. I can ask everyone else not to disturb the speakers! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I want to say a few words about this amendment. In fact, the parent committee, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy adopted at its meeting an amendment giving 349 million tolls for public forestry services, taking this money from direct payments to agriculture, from ECO-0. With regard to the relevance of this amendment, we can find that we are facing similar problems, we have already met last November, when we discussed these problems of financing public services in agriculture here in this area. We know that the following year, when Slovenia joins the European Union, it will probably be necessary to change these services: to change the organisation, to find out whether there are experts in forestry, advisory services and other services in agriculture, not enough or too much, or whether they are right. This is a task for both us and the governments to find out. Of course, until we find out, I think that we are responsible both in this national assembly and in the government, that people who perform certain jobs are also being paid with dignity for their work. During this time, we received quite a few arguments, which I received as committee president, both from the trade union and the forest institute and from individuals, where they find that paid foresters are in fact 20 to 40% less than other equal services in the state administration. They have no means of protection, one third of the people are sick of borellium; in short, these are things that are not proud of this service and ultimately the government. Now the second question is how to solve this systemic issue. What my colleague, Vice President Geza Juban, said before me, I fully support him in his thinking. Actually, it's not appropriate for me to say in an unprofessional way, pick up money somewhere and put it elsewhere; I can't agree to that. And, colleagues and colleagues, I will read to you the quote from last November's 11th, when we adopted the rebalance when a respected member of this Parliament said this: "I do not explicitly support this amendment, and I would like to stress this in particular, because it expresses all the absurdity that cannot be approved, and it is not understandable that holders of activities in the field of agriculture, policy-making, including the Ministry and Mr. Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, are proposing to take direct payments to farmers and be able to operate bureaucracy and service in institutions." That was here. That's what this house said. The same thing happened today. The same thing happened, money was taken from the same area and given to these jobs. And, of course, this is not a consistent approach! It was those who then opposed that vote now. So I want to say that people have to be paid, and I think it is the responsibility of the ministry and the government to provide funds to these people. However, it is not appropriate to take these funds from the money reserved for direct payments. So, personally, I can't support this amendment. However, I suggest we take a 15-minute recess before making a decision and agree on how we will proceed with this matter. On behalf of the Group of Members, I announce a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u75	Once the colleagues have communicated their views on this amendment, I will order a fifteen-minute recess at the request of the SLS Group. There are quite a few speakers in front of us. Comrade Komljanec, you are next in line, behind you comrades Sušnik, Sok, Anderlič and Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. It comes from one of the richest forest management areas, but I must say that I am concerned at the national level, especially in order not to lose the forestry profession. Slovenia has 60% of the forest area, we all know that. We fall into countries that have the most well-nourished and wealthiest wooded forests. We have a world-renowned forestry profession, with a forestry college, a more than 100-year tradition of professionalism, which goes far into the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Forests represent to a lesser extent material goods, especially in the long run, but above all nature conservation goods, which some countries are still aware of and which will never come back once they are destroyed. Before that, of course, especially if we destroy the forestry profession. In 1995, we adopted a national forest development programme, which we do not implement. I claim that for ten years we have been destroying the forestry profession, we have not even implemented the roughly adopted programme of public forestry service, investment in forests, development research work - the programme foresees for the year [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Almost 8 billion dollars. [[...]] Since its adoption, however, it has declined annually, from 68% to 55% in the last three years. In particular, the amendment saves the survival of the public-governance service, and it also helps us to imagine, especially those who owe it, and to anticipate measures, even though it is necessary to change the national forest development programme and to get one that we will also respect in order to preserve the expertise and, above all, to preserve our forests. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Comrade Sušnik, I give you my word by warning you that you have little time. My friend Sok can't get it. My friend Weber can't get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, this amendment is, in my profound belief, a continuation of the pursuit against the forest agency, against the fact that the public forestry service shrinks to the minimum that will no longer provide normal control over the management of state forests. A fine, very good director we've witnessed to for the last three years. At the same time, this is to ensure that these 14 notorious forest holdings, to which the Minister of Agriculture has awarded 20-year forest management concessions, can be paid the farm land and forests as concessions for forests, cuttings and logging through the highest quality state forests. This is happening and taking into account this, I would have decided to support this amendment, because I am confident that less damage will be caused to this account - even if we take into account this programme of direct payments of an additional 349 million in those, I will say, 12 billion as now - will cause less damage than we can measure the damage that will result from the abolition of the public forestry service. Finally, however, it is necessary to ask what obligations the state has if suddenly so many and so many people have to be forgiven, and that is money. At the same time, I think that, in the case of constant practice, that these direct payments are paid only in the following year, the withdrawal of this money from the total bag of direct payments to ECO-0 of 12 billion would not be significantly known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I say to my colleagues Soku and Webru that you cannot get a word now, but you can get that word in explanation of vote. Procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u80	I propose, Mr President, that I do not know, in accordance with Rule 65 or 165 of the Rules of Procedure, that we extend the debate by 30 minutes and give the floor to those who have run out of time to explain the views of the groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u81	Look, we are now in the vote on the amendments, not the general debate. In the course of the general debate, such a proposal would be possible and would be put forward. Not in the debate on amendments. As you say, if you'll let me know where the exit is - it's about explaining the voice. While there is limited time, it is possible to clarify its point of view. We cannot extend the time amendments because either we would do it for every amendment or for no one. So please understand that this cannot be done, and you will also get colleague Sok and colleague Weber an opportunity to explain the vote. Before that, colleague Anderlič has a word and a colleague of Rokavec. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u82	It is very difficult to understand such discussions as I have heard from the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, given that I have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u83	Just a minute, buddy Anderlich. Can you please calm down? Please. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u84	I have a memory and a behavior of what happened at the last reading of the budget. [[...]] And it is absurd, of course, that Mr Brenčič, that you have taken such a vehement stand in the treatment that Mr Kramberger quoted, for some of the services to be funded, and of course you have taken it from the same line. I do not support being taken from direct payments for the operation of any service. But I wonder how it's possible for the Ministry of Agriculture to get stuck at one job every year: once a veterinarian, once another, now a forester. For foresters I know - you want to destroy the public forestry service, transfer, probably, these employees either to the chamber or anywhere else and you want to do it this way. Therefore, Mr Booth did not put enough money into the allocation of funds to enable this service to function. That you are now calling for a programme to be prepared to determine what needs to be done - what has happened so far and what happened last year when this was pointed out? That's what he's been alerting himself to all the time! Right now, there's really no other way to do this. This morning, I read what's going on, in the paper, I'm listening outside the 400 people who are here - from the same department covered by Mr Booth and this ministry. Say an undisputedly clear answer! Isn't what you quoted yourself true? If it is true that workers have such a status that they cannot perform this job, then there is something wrong with planning. Once again, I am not advocating that direct payments be made. I don't stand up, just like I didn't. However, I am in favour of this, of course, that the services, whatever they are required, are dimensionalized, provided with funds and carried out. Definitely not during the flight, but in the program as it is done. Therefore: if you are consistent with your principles, then of course you will be this amendment and I do not need to support it. If you are consistent, at least partially consistent in your policy, or whatever you have explained so far and what you have explained when the 2003 budget was adopted and 2004 budget was not true. Is it poor planning or is it a conscious policy to bring down a service such as - I agree with Mr Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u85	Comrade Rokavec, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. This amendment, I think Parliament has a lot of problems, however it decides. Indeed, the fact is that the result of this amendment is a wrong decision ten years ago - then competent, when over 700 forest experts took the country on their shoulders. I claim that this was a fundamental error in this country. If we look at the analogous to the agricultural advisory service, where there are some over 300 of them, it must have been a mistake for this country. Of course, then the logical consequence is that there is always too little money to maintain this apparatus. From year to year, we face these issues. I agree that a comprehensive approach should be taken to the resolution of agricultural and forestry services. But what's going on now? In the government procedure, the Prime Minister requested the Minister of Agriculture to reduce funds in the field of agricultural public service, say agricultural advisers, livestock control services, and have been reduced by more than - by around 340 million. On the other hand, the Finance Committee, through a coalition Member, has now adopted a proposal to increase the funding for forestry expertise by 340 million. Yeah, that's absurd! This is where the compass got lost. Perfect compass. If such a budget has already been adopted, as adopted by the December year budget, then the government should remain on those lines, prepare a comprehensive restructuring programme for the public services and start a new one for 2004. Indeed, there is a misunderstanding; even if the agricultural advisory service has a minus 340 million, if it puts people on the road now, the state will have to pay them their retirement and will not profit anything. On the other hand, at this point, we may be a little satisfied with the workers of the forest office, so much so that they will go home calmly today, we will not solve the problem, we will take away your direct payments - but we also know what the ratios are here with regard to the standards that need to be reached by the European Union. I think it would be most correct for the National Assembly to follow this time only the government's position to reject this amendment. Because otherwise, we'll do even more stupid things than she's done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u87	Mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. I must agree with my colleague Anderlich's conclusion that the things that are in these public services are not fully resolved. Absolutely, colleague Anderlich, I agree with that. But these things haven't been done since yesterday. These things are dragging around, and here we're going to have to find a consensus in the government coalition on how these things are going to work out. However, I think that the Minister, the Minister of the Interior, has the responsibility, and ultimately, to ensure that workers are paid in public institutions. And it has this option, but it can allocate money in accordance with the law on the implementation of the budget. So at least what it is, it's that it's from these items that are for direct payments to be taken here. That's what I object to. And I think that there are all the possibilities that these people can be guaranteed, that they will get paid and that they will get paid for material resources, but that we must not take money from these items, from ECO-0, as I said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u89	I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? If we don't, we're going to get to Colleague Juban. [[...]] I don't know if you still have time. I'm afraid you're out of time. No, you don't. Does anyone else want a word from those colleagues who have the opportunity to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll go to the vote. I'll ask for your attention, colleagues and colleagues! Please, mag. A trifle, an explanation of the voice. Once again, I will put the amendment of the Committee on Finance and monetary policy to the sub-programme "operation of services and public institutions" with the budgetary user of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Before making a decision, a vote can also be explained, for which you will have two minutes. Before that, I shall give a 15-minute recess at the request of the SLS Group of Members. Until then, I'm adjourning the debate. We'll continue at 3:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u90	Dear Members, honourable Members! Time has elapsed in which the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group wanted to consult before deciding on the amendment to the sub-programme for the operation of services and public institutions with the budgetary user, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. I ask the representative of the Slovenian People's Party if he wishes to clarify the party's position? Here you go, Mr Kramberger. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, after consultation with government representatives, we have agreed or found the possibility that if we support this amendment, the government must, in any event, provide funds for wages. And if it redistributes them within or if we support this amendment, and after the adoption of this amendment, the amount of funds needed to cover these costs will be carefully examined - the remaining resources are because these funds are slightly more planned than necessary and they will be redeployed back. So we have decided that we will, and we also propose to support this amendment and then the government will redistribute it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Someone else wants to explain the vote before we go to the vote. Just a moment, please, if I could, for a few years, see if we could write you down - Mr Petty Officer, Mr Sok, Mr Juban, Mr Merlo, Mrs Zupan. Anyone else? No, no, no. Thank you very much. First of all, I give the floor to explain my vote to Mr Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time of the debate, I said that I do not believe the numbers represented by the government. Clearly, there are no valid calculations, so there are such discussions. There's no real calculations. If the government had the right calculations, then I'd know which item it's possible and where it's not. There have been far better opportunities and opportunities for redistribution of funds and the provision of the money that is urgently needed for the public service. We can't play with public service. Whatever we do, we should provide these funds, this is mandatory. Unless you decide, as you did last year, to "click" obligations next year. But that's not a decent thing to do. This is a feudalisation of the sources, and this very discussion has shown that we will have another rebalancing for this year in Slovenia. Given the need to provide money for such a service, and given that another budget is likely to be needed, it is reasonable and justified to support this amendment. To at least have the power of this public service, or else we will fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote, Mr Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. In view of this break and of these agreements that you are alerting here in coalition lines, I would like to say that it is unusual, in what way one coalition party helps another to regulate its area. If this had happened in some normal European country, the coalition would probably have hesitated. And here we are constantly witnessing this coordination in Parliament. I understand that foresters need more resources for their work, but that Eko 0 funds are being taken at the same time, which is agreed by our negotiators with the European Union, and this is not possible at the same time. At the same time, of course, once the balance has been adopted, there will be a rebalance between these services, namely the agricultural advisory service, which has taken 140 million tolars. I don't know how you imagine how these things are supposed to go together, because this year they have problems for foresters, they will have problems next year, or they have problems with advisory services this year, and in this way you are causing some abnormal conditions within the agricultural area that we have already identified - more of us are in this situation - because of the drought and the emergence of these new, last year animal diseases, this year's plant diseases, our agriculture. I would ask that if you were already shopping to do these things without the opposition's presence, otherwise with a little more wisdom, we would seek funds in another way rather than in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. First of all, I must say that I think it is a surprise to see the Group's surprise position and, unfortunately, I should almost agree with my colleague Soko. I still object and will not vote in favour of the amendment. To help you take the Rapporteur, on pages 101 and 172, where we have one job and another. I do not oppose financing and assistance to the public forestry service by the end of the year. The people are about 700 and have on this item on page 172 3 and a half billion; it is probably too small. On page 171, there are two agricultural services with about 700 people, with a total of 3.2 billion, on average, per employee of about 5 million. This has been confirmed to me by one and another today. Now, how much floor and above is, of course, the question, but are they all fed or are all provided, or are they all, I don't know, misorganised. In short, these are not arguments that we should do this to interfere - but this seems to be a key problem - to interfere with the funds that finance the production that is currently under way and will probably be similar next year in the biggest crisis. For these reasons - it may not be wrong to repeat in 25 seconds - chloramphenicol, marketplace, Erwinia, cutting orchards, drought in some parts of Slovenia, not all, but a fall in prices on the market. And I don't think there's any reason why I shouldn't object to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Merlo has the floor to explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I think we have already heard today what the importance of accepting this amendment is. I think that there is nothing more to say about the importance of forests in this country, because we know what the increase is, what the role of the forest is, and I think that there is much to be said about today's vote, whether we have order in this area or whether we will let things get out of hand, so that anyone can cut anything and anywhere and so on. I think that right now this job is not optimal, but that it works well for relatively low personal income, that this population is exposed to diseases that we have already heard, which are that they have countless weaknesses in this part, as I don't know, unpaid material costs to drive with their cars, that they have, say, paid miles as others, I don't know on asphalt roads, those macadam roads and so on. These people have addressed us with many comments. I think that this is worth supporting, as most speakers here have said in today's debate, that those of us who come from these more plentiful areas have already said. So my vote will be for the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support myself the amendment that grants 349 million dollars to the public forestry service. The fact is that this service is constantly fighting for funds, for the provision of salaries and material costs and that wages in forestry are actually at least 20, for a fifth lower than those comparable in the state administration. However, this is clearly due to mistakes made in past decisions, which will have to be put on the table once and on the other hand, I find it really a little odd that funds are being made directly in agriculture, but after a break we were able to find that things will be settled and I hope that the matter will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much. A few of you have made a statement to explain your voice. Allow me to tell you in an orderly fashion how you will come to: Mr Weber, Mr Rokavec, Mr Petan, Mr Sušnik and Mrs Majnikova. And Mr. Kelemina. Okay, first of all, Mr. Weber has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment, and I would like to support it with the following facts, because it is, however, a job organised throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, many times this service also contributes to coherent regional development. Especially in this sense because they are very highly educated people, because the jobs they have in the Slovenian Forest Institute are 824. systemized. The fact is that since 2000, the number of employees has been declining, and what we are talking about in 2003 concerns 730 employees, of which 7 are magistrates, 263 have university education, 390 are professional and higher and 70 are middle. So it is a real profession that is established in this space and also, as we have already heard, in the international and, of course, it is not possible to compare this institution with, say, the agricultural acceleration service or other public services and to say, the final amount that is recorded in the budget is the criterion by which we will speak whether a service has sufficient resources or not. The fact is that these people are employed, the fact is that, of course, these salaries are not ultimately even comprehensible unless they are paid, and of course, the fact is that the damage in the forest can be irreparable if we go uncontrolledly to the forest office, which is, as I have tried to provide data on education, a truly remarkable professional institution. All these consequences will certainly be reflected directly, including in forest management plans, which will not be of good quality and will, of course, result in an outage both in the budget and under agricultural land, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment. However, I will not support it because this has been made clear today, clearly stated in the very explanation of the budget. The reader may have found that in fact two approximately equal public services in the area of agriculture and forestry, both public services and forestry, operate on the balance of the budget with approximately the same amount of money. And I think we're going to give priority or we're going to treat one job differently. I believe that this is not the responsibility of the legislator and that is why I will not support this amendment. It is not responsible for the legislator to do so just so that a certain structure of people can be drawn to him. Certain groups in this House. I believe that it must be the legislator's responsibility to view public service, one or the other, with the same vat. Today, we will certainly make a big move here in this direction so that we will give a certain service a different treatment than the other service. And if we look at where we're taking the funds, then I remember that this is fundamentally unacceptable and I'm sure that the path where the secretary of the department might be, if he finds that there's not enough funds to redistribute within the department, would provide additional resources to ensure that. In this particular case, there is no argument that there would be no shortage of funds for salaries. I therefore find it unacceptable and will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. So I'll be more of a hard-on, but I'll support it anyway. The fact is, public forestry services are needed. However, however it works, I consider it to be a professional in this field and also an independent arbitrator in forest management. I know that right now the situation is that there are many people who would like to get rid of it. That's perfectly clear. This is not to say, after all, the amendments that we had when we adopted the budget, when the two amendments, even the three of them took precisely this service, and then slightly changed. But why is it a little bit harder, the more I support this with a hard hand, but it is because this situation, when we save the skin in one such service in this way, shows all the brilliance, especially the misery of the work of this government coalition, which has been working for two other terms, and if at that time it has not been able to save the system service that we know what it means, then it is a complete mess. And that's why it's going to be harder to vote, of course, because I know that the job is important, but okay, and in this case, we're wasting this job and the others aren't, at least we're saving it, so I'm going to vote in favour. But it's a real shame for these ruling coalitions to solve such important things. And that's what, I don't know, thanks for not saying anything else for unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will also support this amendment because I am convinced that there is a need for a further existence and for a good functioning of the public forest institution. I am confident that this support that will be received by Parliament today by the public forest agency, including by the adoption of this amendment, will be understood by employees as an obligation after even more quality work, after even more quality supervision. Here, in particular, I have in mind the control of the management of state forests, where there are still large reserves and where it is necessary to leave control in any way, and in this way to ensure that such a stiff concession paid by forest holdings is paid to the right extent and to the extent to which I am convinced that it could fully cover the costs of this public service if this control were to be implemented 100%. On the other hand, I am sure that the employees will also understand that part of the task of planning the shooting of the game, where I think there is still something to be done to ensure that wildlife management, which is also entrusted to this service, continues, or develop further, by achieving co-existence between the farmer, between the direct producer in the countryside and between the wild stock in the forests. I'm sure it will, so I'll support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment myself. Ten years ago, we made a reform of forestry, where we separated forestry into a part of public interest and part that is in the interest of forest owners. To this end, we have set up a budgetaryly financed public forestry service to achieve the public interest and have introduced budgetary financing and co-financing to materially promote forest owners, contributing to the achievement of public interest over forests. The State's material support to forest owners also provides compensation for the restrictions imposed by the legal system. In 1996, we adopted a national forestry programme. In all these years, we have achieved that this service is funded by only 54%, and by adopting this amendment we can signal that all the commitments that this country accepts are to be fulfilled, both to the quotas negotiated in Europe and to the laws adopted in the National Assembly. I would also like to say that I will support the amendment in particular because a well-organised public forestry service can contribute to this budget of 20 to 35 billion tolars per year in the correct measurement of deforestation. That is why I certainly support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It is difficult to vote on such amendments when it is not clear how this will end. In fact, today's debate shows that the authorities, those who should have these things "removed" and know exactly where the budget money goes, obviously you don't know what you're doing. That's definitely, you don't know what you're doing. And those of us who are now following this debate have the feeling that in fact no one knows who is drinking and who is paying. You don't know if this money is enough to pay, you say, enough, you don't know if it's too little, or if it's right - I don't know what you're doing. And now I wonder who's making up the budget. And if this is now just one example of such a mistake when you don't know where the funds are going, whether there are enough or not, it shows that we don't really know how this state budget is drawn up and where the money is going. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! And we confirm the balance of the budget, we accept the budget for 1,500 billion and so on, and we do not know where this money is going, and we have no control! This is the extreme irresponsible treatment of public money, and I am just wondering where this will lead us. If people could see this, but if they were now following this debate, I don't think they could think as much as I do. I will probably support this amendment myself, because I hope that you will then be able to balance these things within your powers, as you predicted. However, in this way, I am firmly convinced that politics and states cannot be led.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I firmly believe that this public service is too strong and not effective. It's some kind of honor. Before we do anything - what we would like to do with this amendment - the government must first have an interest in achieving an appropriate programme of rationalisation or reorganisation of this service. In this service, some people work hard, work well, and a large part of people go to work alone. Many of these people would like to put in a company, a factory, when they should sell their work on the market; only then would they see the value of this work. In this situation, however, there is no other solution or other approach than to provide adequate money for the time being until an appropriate programme, a rationalisation project, a reorganisation to be approved by the Government is reached. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. We can now proceed to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 50 votes against 6. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the debate the amendment of Bogdan Barovic to the sub-programme "investment in hospitals" with the budgetary user the Ministry of Health. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm going to be short and very sharp. Bogdan Barovic, Member of the Slovenian National Party, proposed an amendment to prevent 40 million tolls from being taken from the hospital in order to invest in the construction of the surgical infirmary by the rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The story is two years old and has led to no bile debates and words in this House. I didn't bring this amendment into my head. The hospital’s management informed me that the initial opinions of the Ministry of Health, which had led to the withdrawal of 40 million, were wrong. Because they were created at the Ministry of Health with the wrong documentation. This mistake was immediately acknowledged by the University of Civil Engineering in Maribor. This recognition of the university of construction, the lab for the investigation of materials and structures, I have here, with me. In explanation, I said that the withdrawal of 40 million to the general hospital of Trbovlje, of 50 days in the budget, was already insufficiently given, unjustifiable, on the basis of documented and archived material. On my home work body, Mr. Vrhunec told me specifically about this investment, as proposed here, "we have received a new opinion from the Faculty of Construction on the implementation of the investment such as planning, and this opinion has brought us back an investment in the initial state, and the funds, as planned at this time, amounting to 18 million, are sufficient for this investment." I'll tell you in advance that I'm going to check the reality of this data. It's just that the university was lying. On the one hand or on the other, he gives different opinions to different people. Besides, let me just say this. In the explanation of the parent working body, it is written in the last paragraph: if it were, I speak for the surgical outpatient of the abdominal hospital, however, it is necessary to provide additional funds, but not at the proposed level of 40 million tolars, but more in half blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, the necessary funds could be provided by reallocation within the health investment programme. If that is the case, why haven't they redistributed these funds somewhere else and left these poor 50 million, where we've been arguing for two years, to the trebwell hospital. One more thing. Yesterday 61 Members of 61 present voted in favour of financial assistance to the Oncology Institute. It's the same thing if I were with you, I'd give my vote for it. I think that after two years of bickering around the abdominal hospital and building the surgical infirmary, it would be just as nice if all the Members here in this room, including for these fights, 40 million, not 342 and something else to invest in the surgical infirmary of Trbovlje gave their vote for. And once again, I don't like lying or pretending. I'll check out the real information given by the competent institute. And another question is very interesting, to which I know I will not get an answer. Whether the withdrawal of 40 million trebwell hospital is due to the opinion of an institute or simply because the state budget has to be reduced and someone does not have what a man has between his legs, he would say, "We have to reduce and we will also reduce here." If that's the reason, then let's be honest. But if there is a reason elsewhere, if there is a reason in some opinion of an institute that is essentially different from the Ministry of Health, then I don't know who's lying to who anymore. I call on my colleagues and colleagues that this is a two-year problem that we have been arguing about here for a long time. It's $40 million for an investment in a surgical outpatient in a trebwell hospital. Thank you very much for your work and listening to real data.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Master of the Supreme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Just for a brief explanation, because there is not much time left for these explanations and discussions in this regard. Look, even if this wasn't the opinion of the Faculty of Civil Engineering of the University of Maribor, the money that was envisaged this year would be too much, because the hospital does not have a prepared and ideal project, let alone investment documentation. We are in contact with the hospital management, specifically with the director, the activities in this regard are ongoing and based on information we have from the hospital, not just from the university, we have decided to cut such a cut on this item. Otherwise, Mr Barovic did not fully interpret my implementation on the committee. I have also assured the Committee, but if additional funds are needed for this investment or if it turns out that this investment can be used more this year, we will, for this additional year, assume that if this 20 million to 25 million, we will find internal reserves to redistribute within the health investment programme. For the time being, it is our assessment, as well as the hospital management, that this moment is worth 18 million for this investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u121	I see we've already got the red numbers. Mr. Verkhunec, again, I can't help but say that you're also lying to the general hospital of Trbovlje. Because I have here their letter, which says: "The hospital's management tells you that the original opinions, on the basis of which the Ministry of Health has prepared the above-mentioned proposal for the collection of 40 million, were wrong. Because they were designed to look at the wrong documentation. This mistake of hers was immediately acknowledged by the University of Maribor. Therefore, the hospital claims that this recovery is based on some documentation. You claim that there are no such documents, even if there was no reason to withdraw the money, because this hospital is not supposed to have the proper documentation. I'm grateful for this information, and I'll talk to them. Because I don't want to play clown on the one hand and on the other hand, that everyone will tell me the truth, that I won't use the word lie, so that I can fight for two years, here for two years. There were quite a few harsh words spoken, when we received in the late hours of the night, the adoption of the budget. And I think it's a shame that between the two sides are bombarding with untruths, and I'm fighting for something that is certainly needed for 50,000 people in the Zavavian region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment because I believe that it is a time to begin to solve the problem more quickly in the stem hospital and I think it was inappropriate that these funds have been reduced, and Mr Barovic, as well as the mayor of Trubovlje, knows well and has also just provided clear evidence that there will be insufficient funds planned for the necessary investment work at the Trbovlje hospital. In addition, as already mentioned in the introduction today, I said in my debate that one of the few items is the area of the Office of the President of the Republic where the funds are substantially increasing. And I think it would also be appropriate, from this humane point of view, for this amendment to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I would like to ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to take the floor to take a look at the time they have either spent or perhaps not, since the parliamentary groups have notified time for all three types of hearings in the context of the consideration of the budget's balance sheet. So those of you who don't have a chance, please respect that. Since there is no wish after the debate, I conclude the debate. Explanation of vote before the decision. First, Mr. Grachner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment myself, even though I don't think the source from which the $40 million is replaced is the best. I would like to put it this way: it is true that this investment is at the very beginning, regretting that it is at the very beginning, because this battle for this cause has already been about two years long and that in three moments it is also true, as the Secretary of State has said, that there is no idea design, no idea project, no investment plan, no location documentation, and no project to obtain a building permit. It is true that the non-acceptance of this amendment would not, however, have stopped the acquisition of the project documentation itself, because there are still 18 million tolars in the budget. On the other hand, we need to be aware that the hospital in Trbovlje is extremely old, that we have a great interest in finally coming to this necessary base because the general hospital of Trbovlje covers at least three municipalities, about 50,000 people who are operating here every day in completely inadequate rooms. That is why I will support the amendment, in other words, with the aim of ending the limitation and reduction of funds mainly in the field of investment investment in the Trbovlje hospital. In the event of the rejection of the amendment, however, I would certainly ask that, as we have already adopted on the committee itself, the Government should at least take an appropriate decision to provide the funds needed by the Trbovlje hospital to make investments in this year, within the framework of its investment position, which should be reduced by 430 million. So it's a difference of 18 to 40 million, which turned out to be missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. A voice explanation, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. I will gladly support this amendment, especially because Mr Barovic, my friend, I very much believe that he is telling the truth, that he is sincere and that he does not deceive me with this amendment. I believe him to fight for justice, for his place, and I believe less of the government's representatives who have driven us across the water so many times, that's for sure. However, taking over the budget user of the President of the Republic of Slovenia is also quite correct. In fact, the President of the State, I'm sure he doesn't need money on this item because he doesn't do anything anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Not to be against the Trbovlje hospital, and I also believe the mayor, my colleague Barovic, but I must also trust the Secretary of State and the statement he made that the project will run smoothly even if this amendment does not receive support. I would say that at various ministries, not just in health care, a number of projects are being collected, with all the documentation, calls for proposals from 1999, 2000, 2001 and so on, but not yet in turn. The documentation must first be provided and placed in line. However, I think the Ministry of Health also has this species. Unfortunately, I will follow the decision of the Finance Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. A few hands went up. Allow me to let you know how you notified yourself in order [[Maybe I missed someone.]] : Mr Barovic, Brenčič, Kebrich. Anyone else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] First, I give my word to Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u131	I've got 30 seconds. Thank you. I will absolutely support the amendment myself. And there's something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u132	Two minutes, Mr Barovic, is the explanation for the vote. Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u133	Excuse me, excuse me! We've heard so many times. There's no paperwork. I understand that this respectful assembly knows whose institutions or whose institutions in Slovenia are the hospitals and who is obliged to prepare all the documentation and with what means. You know, the question is, what was the first thing, a chicken or an egg? Answer him correctly. If there is no money given by the State, of course, the State is also preparing all the documents, these documents are not available. For the time being, as far as I know, the hospital is not even a municipal institution, such as a public health institution. Therefore, do not make excuses as to whether or not there is documentation. Documentation, two years ago we heard no paperwork. Let us ask ourselves who is responsible for preparing this documentation. Thank you very much. I will absolutely support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment because I think this government is serious and the Ministry of Health is responsible. When preparing the budget projection for 2003, the item was inside, that is to say, the Ministry was obliged to prepare the item on the basis of documents, but there is no location information, and then we must ask ourselves what is wrong with this ministry, not in this budget and not in this national assembly. Therefore, it is simply necessary to support the amendment and implement the starting line, to obtain documents at an appropriate time which should have been already in place when the item was in the budget, or so little of the compositions of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia are being handled at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. And one last explanation for the voice. Mr. Kebrich, please. He's not the last one, and Mr. Peca is behind him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the government! I'm in a dilemma about who to trust. Given that it was decided on Monday on the Committee on Finance, as we have in the report, I believe that colleague Barovic, whom I very much respect and the basic human reason, would be the first to vote in favour of the amendment to provide more funds for the hospital, because none of us knows when the service will be needed there, but it does not matter whether it is in the Rippers or oncology institute or elsewhere. However, when we passed the building law, it is perfectly clear what documentation must be, and when the documentation is prepared, funds must be provided. Whether the documentation is or is not, or whether we will reserve some funds that will not be used, because there is no documentation, because we are already in the middle of the year, so I will abstain with the exception of this vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Pache. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u139	Your Honor! I'm sure we're chasing the wrong question. The fact is that the amount earmarked in the budget or proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the purpose of my colleague Bodgdan Barovic is not to increase the proposed amount, but only to maintain the amount proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is being transferred at the moment. And so much more indignant is the performance of the Ministry of Health. The fact is, we are more speakers, or more speakers have discovered who owns the hospital before me. And if this is a matter of documentation, this was the same issue when the government itself proposed an existing amount, which is being proposed by the Ministry of Health, which is being sought only by colleague Barovic at this time. And if, then why wasn't the issue of documentation controversial. At this point, you seem to be having a hard time. I personally estimate that it is also sad that, although I do not come from the trebove region, or from the vicinity of Trbovlje, that Members stop so much at such a small amount, and despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given a green light for this investment. It is equally sad that the Ministry of Health itself does not advocate an investment in health care, but even opposes it. I will support the amendment of Comrade Barovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I will support this amendment, because I have full confidence in what our colleague Barovic said, the responsible mayor, although sometimes he has a strange company, but so be it. But I would also say that we have long been expecting this white book from the Ministry, which is forecasting, and I hope that this project is in there too. And hurry up, or your ministry will lose all confidence. Then, one strange item was mentioned for 100 million, for the president of the country. I am absolutely nothing to him to get $100 million for anything, but it would be very appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to explain what this is all about. I just figured out that this money would be enough for a new plane. And please think about it, or it will be a little cheaper than it was now, and I will also allow the government a plane, but let me tell you what this 100 million is about, put it in Trbovlje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u143	I will support this amendment myself, Comrade Barovic. Because it places these budgetary resources in a hospital in a deprived region. We know that there has been a social bomb in Zasavje and that, say, the economy is unable to help this regional hospital, even more. I expect that because of the intolerable social situation, we know that we have witnessed a recent protest by women who have pointed out the intolerable situation by closing down jobs so that the number of diseases and the health situation of the population will deteriorate considerably due to social and mental stress, which is due to the fact that the financial resources allocated to the opening up of new jobs are not used productively. And from what I've seen, colleague Barovic was one of the few representatives of the government, some of the authorities as the mayor of the municipality, who came to welcome and express solidarity with protesting women. I think it is also necessary to be aware at the symbolic level here that we are also prepared for symbolic reasons to move any change away to a place that is in some way forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Two more explanations. First Mr. Grošelj, then Mr. Švagan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u145	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. I also received an e-mail from the Director of General Hospital Trbovlje, who carries the date 22.5 He turns to all five Members, three from LDS, Mr Barovic and of course also to me, and, of course, asks that we do everything to ensure that the design is not interrupted, and in the coming years to carry out part of the first phase of the update, which includes the construction of the surgical infirmary, the ambulance and the single operational block. [[..]] In doing so, of course, I would like to say that we are an agreement reached at the Ministry of Health in 2001 to respect and implement it. Last year, gentlemen, I've been waiting for you from LDS to come forward, and we've already done the first phase, which was to replace all the windows at the general hospital of Trbovlje. Over 70 million. And, of course, we also assured the congregations of this work. However, for the second part of the phase, it was agreed to ensure that resources are not designed; this is a static calculation of the capacity of the General Hospital in Trbovlje. There has indeed been a delay - but we also have a left or right block - it has been found that the right block is the one in which this surgical ambulance, of course, is located, not the department, the infirmary, that all the bases on which this surgical department could then be built. And the Secretary of State also explained to the Committee on Finance that the funds would be provided under the investment funds available to the Ministry and, of course, that there would be no political lobbying through our municipalities. And for that reason, of course, I will also support this amendment. I will also support this amendment today, but in the belief that even if there were no such amendment, the resources would be ensured that this project documentation or that these funds are provided through the Ministry of Health for static calculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Schwagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will abstain from this amendment as Zasavec. Of course, the mayor of Zagorje municipality, who invests most in the Trbovlje hospital and gives the most funding. I trust the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, I trust the government. Of course, I would have believed in the well-intentionedness of this amendment, for last year there were 60 million words of demagog in the adoption of the budget, even in 2001, 2002 and 2003 and 60 million in the state budget, which were simply not spent. That is why I will not support it, because even the smile on the side of the National Party, if you do, will accept the amendment, because we all know that we support such amendments. I believe that the Ministry of Health will move forward with this project. The municipality of Trbovlje is responsible for the absence of these projects, as well as for the management of the hospital; of course, this laughter is more intended for the President of the State to take these funds, which also comes from Zasavje, and I believe that this is more of a demagog political game in this Parliament or in this Slovenian Zasava space. Of course, I'm sure I'm going to face a lot of criticism in Zasavje that I'm against the Trbovlje hospital, but I can say that I'm going to go home with pride, because I've been giving a million dollars every year for this hospital, and I'm the only mayor. In addition to spending 60 million for windows and others, as the mayor mentioned last year, Mr Grošelj, not to mention. Of course, it's a game of 'playing with us, why don't we play?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We heard explanations of voices. Can we get to the vote on the amendment? [[Yes, you can.]] We're voting. There are 55 of us present, in favour of 28 votes against 20. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am now putting to the debate the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party to the sub-programme "help in secondary education" with the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 18 votes against 33. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the same candidates to the sub-programme "Study Assistance" with the budgetary user the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 19 votes against 33. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am putting forward the amendments to the sub-programme "Youth Programmes" to the budgetary user of the Youth Office. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 13 votes against 34. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have therefore concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments and are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal as a whole. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. The vote was 45 to 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the specific part of the proposal is fully adopted. We are now moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to a decision-making plan for development programmes. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have therefore concluded the decision on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the representative of the Government, or the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, whether the balance of the state budget in terms of revenue and expenditure is harmonised. Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We therefore note that, on the basis of the amendments adopted, the budget, the general and specific parts of the budget are not harmonised and that a harmonisation amendment still needs to be adopted, and in order for the government to adopt it and propose it to the Committee on Finance, we need about 45 minutes of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, if you agree, I think, given the time that the government representative has explained that the government needs it, and then the committee for its work, I think that we can move on to the next items, which are on the agenda, which will actually last for quite some time, and after the closing points, the time would be for the committee to define itself to the harmonisation amendment.The decision would have been made today, unless anyone objects. Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 11. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I would like a representative of the government to explain the bill further. Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much. With regard to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of Budgets 2003 and 2004, I would like to place only a few main emphasiss on them and link them to what I said in the recital on the rebalancing. This amendment to this so-called ZIPR contains some of the provisions by which we wanted to introduce this deindex also at the level of public consumption by laying down the provisions contained in Article 31b concerning the prohibition of the valorisation of monetary obligations in contracts concluded by persons of public law for a period of up to one year. Well, there can't be any more indexing clauses here. This ZIPRO then also provides for some or some of the articles to provide for rationalisation in public consumption. For example, ministries determine the dynamics of payments of current transfers to public institutions, public agencies, public funds and public economic institutions by receiving funds for their salaries the day before payment of salaries. For goods and services, a maximum of twice a month. This does not result in liquidity surpluses. Two government regulations are then key to rationalising essentially the volume of material costs, namely the low-value procurement procedure at the level of all state administrations, the whole state administration and the common procurement procedures. There are, of course, provisions that determine this because, of course, there is now a greater deficit in the balance sheet, that there is a need for additional State indebtedness. Where are these limits of additional debt now? There's also a formula that I think is still very important. In the past, the fiscal stabiliser was primarily designed to use a fiscal stabiliser if revenues were to decrease. This time, however, we went wider and added that, to the extent specified, the statutory expenditure is increased due to, say, a larger number of beneficiaries, that even in such a case a fiscal stabiliser can be used and, in fact, that there is no need to transfer liabilities to the following year. There are only two types of such liabilities, these are liabilities to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office and in case of higher interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u152	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The draft law dealt with the labour force in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and adopted certain amendments following a very gruesome and interesting debate in order to correct the content only and rejected the amendments of the two parliamentary groups, which are also or will be the subject of the debate and vote at today's meeting. Particularly interesting was the debate on Articles 21a and 29b, where the view was presented that it was the first legal standard which framed a certain part of the concessional problem in a certain way. The various concession arrangements, both in the US and in the European system, are known. The proposed solutions in the law on the implementation of the budget are of a kind of solution, but according to the opinion, there is a real need for infrastructure of such a nature that we cannot otherwise solve them. However, concrete substantive solutions still need to be addressed, and in particular the dictatorship of paragraph 3 of the second paragraph of Article 29b. While it is difficult to expect a legal text to regulate the area of concessions, there is no prospect of a concrete proposal in due course. It is therefore reasonable that the text submitted should be supplemented accordingly, in particular when payments are made for the conduct of economic public services and in view of the present situation in the area of the resolution of serious problems in the field of infrastructure that cannot be postponed, and it is unsustainable to rely solely on budgetary resources or on the classical form of debt. On the other hand, the untapped offer of foreign capital is precisely because we do not have rules to frame such options. The coverage of financial resources as the first condition for an open approach to investment is a budget resource, but the envisaged solutions also open up the possibility of building the necessary infrastructure on the basis of dedicated resources through the capital of the investor. The Committee adopted the following amendments, namely Articles 1, 2, 4, 7 and 10 of the Act, which are contained in the Committee's report dated 18 June this year. At the same time, the Committee followed certain comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service and placed them appropriately in individual articles. I propose that such an improved and amended proposal for the 2003 and 2004 implementation of the budget be supported by fellow Members and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, the position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. In view of the limitations of our Rules of Procedure for five minutes, we have also agreed with the Socialist Party's Group of Members to work together to shape the position of the Slovenian Coalition towards this law. The government has divided the changes, the ZIPRO additions into three content groups. The first group is intended to remove previously adopted shortcomings, and the second group is directly linked to the changes carried out by the rebalancing of the budget plan. Thirdly, it interferes with the current system-wide arrangements for financing public infrastructure in a non-systemic manner. None of these three groups of proposed amendments meet the criteria laid down for transparent fiscal operations of the international code and fiscal transparency. All these three groups of proposed changes are not really needed to review the implementation of the budget, but rather to achieve exactly the opposite objectives. In fact, the only clear provisions of both the second group of changes and all ZIPRA changes are those which provide that the current budget deficit for 2003 will increase to SIT 70 billion by almost 16 billion and that this budget deficit can be further increased by 15 billion from the so-called fiscal stabiliser. That's the only thing that's clear. Last year, the government of the so-called fiscal stabiliser could only use it to worsen the forecasts of macroeconomic factors on the basis of which it planned budget revenues. This situation is no longer sufficient this year. This year, the government can use additional debt, even if the current balance sheet of the budget is wrong and too low in planning the necessary transfer to the SPIZ, or too low in planning the costs of servicing the current public debt foreseen in this rebalancing. To make a mistake, however, when reviewing the numerical part of the rebalancing, it is highly likely that we can find out today. That is why we can expect the budget deficit for 2003 to be higher by 31 billion, given the budget adopted. The second clear provision of the amended ZIPRO is the one under which the National Assembly will empower the Government to grant additional 40 billion guarantees to public sector legal persons for their debt, increasing the initial guarantee quota from 110 billion to 150 billion. At the same time, the government points out that the claim of these persons for State guarantees was even higher by at least 20 billion, but it did not listen. However, it is clear from the additional information provided by the Government on who will be granted these additional loan guarantees, that the government is thus artificially reducing the size of the country's budget deficit, which should be demonstrated by the Maastricht criteria, such as a loan to a health insurance company of SIT 14 billion, to the same size as the projected deficit of this state treasury. However, its deficit is included in the budget deficit identified under the Maastricht criteria of ESA/95 methodology. For what or what programmes will be used the remaining 110 billion tolls of state-guaranteed loans, the government does not explain and certainly most of them will in the coming years agree on the public debt of the state budget or the central state. All other provisions of the second group of amendments related to the State budget's rebalancing relate to the granting of powers to the government or direct budgetary users to further redistribute the expenditure of the following half of the year and to the creation of the so-called applicable budget for 2003, with the allocation rights even recalculating at mid-2003. The only welcome change announced by the government by the ZIPRA amendments could lead to a more cost-effective use of budgetary resources was the proposal for a uniform regulation of low-value contracts and the introduction of common procurement procedures detailed by a specific government regulation, which was Article 7. But the government coalition withdrew this proposal from the parent's working body. Let us recall that the procurement arrangements for small-value contracts or more cost-effective spending in this area were announced by Mr Tone Rop as a finance minister last year when he presented the draft budget in this National Assembly. Some of us even believed him. However, we were obviously very optimistic, especially given that within two years the Minister of Finance was not ready to prepare a list of persons who were obliged to respect the Public Procurement Act, the list of budgetary users and other public law persons and persons who operate with a majority share of State capital, even though this obligation is laid down in the Public Procurement Act 1 of 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u157	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Budget Implementation Act, which we adopt each year after the budget, is, according to the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, mainly a technical law designed to ensure the normal implementation of the annual budget. Nevertheless, the practice in recent years in the implementing laws of the budget has also established significant substantive interference with other laws, in an interventional manner. Even this year's law also contains some elements that go beyond the need for ongoing budget implementation and interfere with other legislation. We are also reminded of these facts by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It would probably be time for the law on the implementation of the budget for each year to clear these unnecessary provisions, as such provisions, which should be addressed by amending the basic legislation, also reduce the legal security of budgetary consumers and control over the transparency of the use of public funds. In the content of the law, perhaps the most important thing is to ensure that the country's debt is increased by almost 16 billion and also increases the amount of public sector debt at the state level by an additional 40 billion. This should allow for the normal implementation of investments. I stress the normal implementation of investments and programmes for which they wanted additional opportunities in particular areas, for example on railways for 12 billion, in health care for 14 billion, in Dars for 20 billion and in Slovenian investment companies for at least 16 billion. The ambition of the bill's proponents was, at first, to adopt a number of measures in this law that would contribute to the accelerated reduction of inflation to create conditions for Slovenia's inclusion in the MR2 project and in the European Monetary Union. In view of these objectives, a de-indexation of social transfers has been proposed which would constitute a measure to affect the socially weakest segments of the population. In the United List of Social Democrats, we objected to such a proposal because the measure was not agreed upon in the social dialogue and was, in our opinion, also systematically unacceptable. However, we welcome the proposed contractual obligation coordination regime in Article 31a, which is concluded by public sector individuals, as the envisaged solution will certainly contribute to reducing inflation due to the ban on the revolving of monetary liabilities in contracts concluded for a period of up to one year. In the parliamentary group, we support solutions that increase the mobility of the budget with the speech powers of the Supreme Court, the Senate for Offences and the Ministry of Internal Affairs for administrative units. It is good to reduce the level of commitment to expected budgets from 80 per cent to 60 per cent, which also limits the possibility of transferring the obligations of the current year to the next year, as this increases the responsibility of consumers and reduces anticipated spending, which can limit the scope for managing the country's current economic policy. Some solutions, which constitute an upgrade to the management of public financial expenditure, should be regulated in systemic laws, but with regard to the deadlines mentioned and the possibility of amendments to these laws, we need to agree to an indirect arrangement, such as in the new scheme for the provision of funds to public institutions, and to the possibility of increased budgetary deficits in the case of additional commitments by countries to pension and disability insurance institutions. We are not entirely convinced that the new regulation referred to in Article 21b, which allows private investment in public infrastructure, will be able to replace budgetary resources for investments in private resources. But it's worth a try. Especially now that the Committee on Finance proposes important amendments to this Article, which define more clearly the terms and conditions of these investments, which will also be supported by the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We will also support the deletion of Article 7, whose content needs to be regulated in the Public Procurement Act, which is currently in the parliamentary procedure. Preparations for the entry into the European Union call for additional resources without question. The possibility opened by the law in the proposed Article 8 to conclude a contract of some more than 10 billion to build the Schengen border, which will soon be the future external border of the European Union, is welcome, but it is necessary because the country has to implement certain projects for which it has committed itself before Europe and does not provide sufficient resources in the current budget. The amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004 are not ideal, but are necessary for the implementation of the budget in 2003 and 2004. Since we have managed to eliminate the inappropriate deindexation of social transfers, we will also support the law and amendments proposed by the Finance Committee and include them in its contents in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! In the Social Democratic Party as part of the coalition of Slovenia, we are aware that in Slovenia too, all available possibilities for investing private capital in public infrastructure must be exploited. We have pointed out this several times before that this should be legalised, that this possibility is subject to systematic regulation and also to put it into practice. However, we strongly oppose the fact that it is the granting of a general mandate for private investment in public infrastructure on the basis of a certain law on the implementation of the budget for 2003. We think it's an unacceptable two-way solution. The legal system aspect of inadmissibility is very important, as our legislative and legal service also points out, for it says that these solutions are unacceptable. In addition to this, the Finance Committee has gone through, and the government has gone through, and Members and Members of the Finance Committee have also gone through, and, of course, have fueled this legal non-systemic inadmissibility. Why do we have a legislative and legal job in our Parliament? Of course, these solutions are also unacceptable for substantive reasons, as they indirectly introduce the privatisation of public services, which should be regulated either in the law on institutions or elsewhere and the privatisation of economic public services, which should be regulated elsewhere. It is, therefore, a search for some emergency exits, which, last but not least, has been made clear on the Finance Committee, that it is worth trying with a solution and that it will be demonstrated in the future whether this solution is good or not good or bad. We have quite a few bad experiences in the Republic of Slovenia with emergency exits and various privatisation attempts, and I do not think that this should be done again in the field of private investment in public infrastructure. We believe that the solutions in this law are non-systematic, inadequate, and that is why we are also on the committee, and today we are proposing to amend or delete these articles, which speak of the possibility of private investment in public infrastructure in such a non-systemic manner. At least a few laws should be amended if you want to make this happen and arrange it. I think that more attention would only be given to systematic regulation of this issue than to horrifyingly foresee this possibility in the law on the implementation of the budget. The next important point, the area governed by this law on the implementation of the budget and we feel it is also controversial, so we are also proposing today's amendment, is Article 21d, which provides that the tax revenue on value added tax paid to the 2003 budget may be transferred to the 2004 budget above the amount planned in the budget balance or considered as revenue for the 2004 financial year. This provision is contrary to the provisions of the Accounting Act and the Public Finance Act, as well as to fundamental accounting guidelines or principles. Such a provision of the law on the implementation of the budget would result in the loss of the basic criteria for demarcating the revenue of two years and would allow the government to create a completely uncontrolled amount of revenue in a particular financial year and consequently a budgetary deficit. This phenomenon is likely to already be present in the creation of the final accounts of the State budget, which could be established already in the audit report in the final accounts of the State budget for 2001. The government explains or justifies Article 21b by stating that VAT revenues for the financial year 2004 will be too low, as this year part of VAT will have to be allocated to the European budget and will consequently be too low to demonstrate the appropriate size of the budget deficit for 2004. In short, with the share of the tax to be collected this year, which will be over the planned budget or in the 2003 rebalancing budget, you will consider the income and reduction of the deficit for 2004 and not 2003 as normal throughout the accounting logic. Here we are amending this provision and thus contributing to some greater transparency of public finances. The Social Democratic Party will, of course, support these amendments. If these amendments are not supported, we will oppose the rebalancing or we will oppose this amendment of the law on the implementation of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik has applied for the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group and is not among us. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia Party will be presented to us by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the annual adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, we are used primarily to increasing the country's indebtedness and allowing for the financing of an increased budget deficit. Thus, year after year, despite annual high-flying forecasts at the time of adoption of the budget, we are always found at the end of the year by a percentage or two above the forecast inflation rate. We're running out of time. Europe expects results from us and respect for the Maastricht criteria before joining the European Union. In fear of the bad experiences that some other EU candidate countries have experienced with inflation shock therapy, we have been working on its gradual decline for several years: the abolition of the basic interest rate, the Bank of Slovenia's actions. All of this does not produce the desired results. This is why the government decided to take a very radical measure, de-indexation of social transfers, at the time of the change of finance ministers. The government would therefore like to maintain inflation at the level that the European Union likes at the expense of the most socially disadvantaged people. The de-declaration proposed before time would mean a strong intervention and unacceptable formulation of a fixed policy that would most affect the most socially weak categories of the population, particularly the young, as it was drafted by the government for 16 laws governing social transfers in the country. However, the government's irrational use of budget money by purchasing a luxury government plane and building a hanger, which we have found to be unnecessary, by reducing the rights of people in health care, by forecasting the introduction of tuition fees for regular studies, by forecasting new taxes, it is difficult to convince the social partners that the deindexation of transfers for the unemployed, the student diet, parental benefits and pensions would be what will bring lower inflation and better the financial situation of Slovenia. At the last moment, however, the government has given in to the pressures of the social partners, but with the promise that the deindexation of the budget changes for next year does not go away. This year, this mode of coordination will only apply to short-term contractual obligations imposed by public sector legal entities. Therefore, direct and indirect users of the budget, the municipality and public economic institutions and public undertakings, whose founder is a State or municipality, can only conclude short-term contracts in nominal amounts without an valorisation clause. It seems that the government is looking for the last of the saving plants and is in the process of finding solutions without serious reflection on the goals and consequences of such a one - time solution in the law. A real reduction in social transfers will certainly not bring it. Therefore, despite the absence of deindexations in this year's bill, Members of the Young Slovenia Party will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u163	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the law on the implementation of the budget is made by the same hoof as in previous years. Also, according to our assessment, this proves the way of the Slovenian government's thinking in recent years, the present and where public finances will lead us in the future. We are very sorry that we cannot praise the law on the implementation of the budget. As we regret that we cannot praise the law itself on amending and supplementing the budget, i.e. the balance. The fact is that everyone would probably be very happy together, especially the Slovenian National Party, if in this country and in this government, thinking about quality public finances and the consequences for future days, months or years would once prevail. The fact that the government is not serious and has not given particular emphasis to the implementation of the budget through this law also proves the very explanation of the law, where the government reiterates that a budget can be implemented through this law and that the bill has followed the assessment that, through this law, the law on the implementation of the budget, it will be able to make an important contribution to curbing inflation and, consequently, to the successful integration into the monetary union. The fact is, at least in the Slovenian National Party, we are afraid that it will be through these two acts adopted this afternoon - unfortunately adopted this afternoon - that bankruptcy managers or financial managers from the European Union will take place in our country, following the example of some other transition countries with similar public finances as we have, which is unfortunately a poor public finances. I believe that some of you know this fear, and it would make sense if all the other Members, who will finally decide on the adoption of this act, met it. I also think that it is completely flawed - I point out, unfortunately, again the wrong - the approach of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in explanation under "the purpose of the law", under ad 2, the decline in inflation - I apologize, this time mentioning the facts. It is reasonable to point out that, according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - it is sad that it is not yet, after 12 years of inflation knocking on our doors - first to find out what inflation is like in our country. Because the planned fight against inflation, as offered in 18 lines by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not sustainable in the fight against inflation, while the same government predicts new taxes, increases in excise duties, and local communities follow this in the form of their obligations and taxes. We also find it incomprehensible how an institution such as the Ministry of Finance, i.e. when it announces new taxes, can, from a property tax with increased uniform zone approaches, through a tax on housing savings, deliberate savings, a tax on bank interest, at the same time, talk about curbing inflation. As if the only problem in this country is what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to stress that inflation is solely the price of labour. I think that this is a demeaning relationship, which is probably even worse, but it is an unrestrained approach to such an important issue as inflation. However, in the Slovenian National Party, we also miss the purpose of explaining the law, which would affect or direct the development guidelines of our country, especially in the area of public finances, in that form, we have been defending it in the Slovenian National Party for a long time, but unfortunately it never comes across the open ears of the Slovenian Government, which is a change in the structure of tax and tax revenue. We also estimate that until the Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes such a way of thinking, we will not be able to meet all the conditions set out in point 2, this is a reduction in inflation. In any case, it is to commend the speed of the Slovenian government, which has succeeded since its independence, that is to say, in more than ten years, the fact that our country lacks the law on concessions. But I think they heard that in a lot of Slovene municipalities. However, I sincerely hope that Member groups will also be invited to participate before the law on concessions is introduced, because I am sure that this is one of those laws that may bring some green light into Slovenian public finances. However, I am afraid, and this is also noted by the proposaler, that they are still in a phase which is a practice in Slovenian legislation, that the law will not be dealt with for several years. We will not adopt the draft law on the implementation of the budget, and I hope that you will not remain Members, so that we can create new foundations for new reeds and better public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Cyril Pucko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The law before us is a prerequisite for the enforcement of the adopted balance. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that individual solutions in this proposal are better than the legal provisions in force so far. In particular, it is a matter of changing the existing wage and pension coordination mechanism in order to ensure greater flexibility and manageability of public finances. It is a matter of increasing mobility in budgetary implementation procedures. Furthermore, it is about opening up space, private investment in public infrastructure, which is called the possibility of replacing budgetary resources with private resources. The next priority or better solution is to provide a legal basis for regulating the rights and obligations of ministries of other state authorities and recipients of budgetary resources in the planning and spending procedures of the European Union. It is also a matter of ensuring the conditions for entry into the European Union. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia specifically supports the amendment of Article 2, which provides additional funds, namely a billion tolars, for the implementation of the law on aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty. In this way, it will be possible to grant aid to companies in the textile and leather processing sector, led by Mura for a restructuring project, at the expense of selling strategic oil products. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be supported for these reasons by the law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are now moving on to a debate on individual amendments and articles of the amended bill. As you have probably seen, we received the amendment of two parliamentary groups, namely the Socialist Party of Slovenia and the Nova Slovenija Group: 1st, 2nd, 10th, 15th and 22nd. Ladies and gentlemen, as we will first discuss the individual article to which the amendment has been tabled and then, of course, we will also decide on it, I invite you to the Chamber. Allow me to explain: the amendments of the two groups of Members are on two separate lists, namely Article 10 is an amendment on a special sheet, and otherwise on a special paper also on Articles 10, 15, 22. First, I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the two groups of Members to Article 1. Who wants a word? Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. We have again tabled this amendment, which has not been adopted on the home labour body, from a deep belief that Article 21b and Article 29 is a systemic error which will have major consequences for our public finances, but, of course, the first is linked to these two. In particular, let me say that this introduces private financing of infrastructure into our system, otherwise by the new definition proposed in Article 1. First of all, I must say that, of course, we fully agree with such an approach from the principle point of view that Slovenia still needs a more modern approach to all of this, because only through public funds will we not be able to do everything we need. However, it is only through the experience of countries that have done so and that in no way in their greatest dreams would we hope to make it legal through one article and such a law. This law is for the implementation of the budget, these three articles do not even have room in the law on the implementation of the budget. But even if we leave and focus on the basis of the problem, it is a fact that we will take one step, otherwise in the right direction, but in a completely reckless way. I'm sure they remember, at least some colleagues who sometimes just listen to what we have to say that I asked Mr President of the Government last week on the basis of the statements made by the two senior officials of this power. In particular, it is the Director of the Anti-Corruption Office, Mr Penk, who warned us that we are adopting certain laws or regulations that are plannedly lax and thus create the possibility that illegal things are becoming legal. This 21.b article is a very good example in my assessment of what the ruling coalition in Slovenia allows itself to achieve certain very, very questionable goals. That we hope or that you even propose this thing in this way is a complete nonsense. I assure you, and if anyone is really interested in something other than pressing the button quickly and putting off his duty, belonging to such or other political options, if you are interested in studying or getting acquainted with it at least a little bit, you can go to the website and just type the lines of the PFI. It's a private financial initiative. And look, for example, at the debates and how thick the books are about private funding, for example, in the field of local authorities. This is happening in certain countries, particularly in England, and it is only beginning and is working seriously in this area. Not in such a spirited way. I must admit that, in a sense, I am disappointed and very, very surprised that Dr. Marble, the new finance minister, has at all agreed to this responsibility which this law gives him to manage the entire private financing system of infrastructure in Slovenia in the 1960s alone through a regulation. In the debate we had on the working body, government representatives explained to us that they have been working on such a law for a year and a half, with the help of experts, Slovenian experts from the academic council, from the university and, of course, with the support of other experts from abroad, but they have not yet finished this. But then we heard the words that it's almost inevitable, we have to do this because you know, these things are already happening because they're not banned and they're actually being implemented. So we're responding to one situation that's just some kind of force and we have to do it. Yeah, what do we have to do? Thus, according to the local word, "slamparija", I do not know what third-class country we would not allow, as proposed today in this ZIPRU, and this is Article 21b. I am sure that we can do this, but in a serious, smart way, which will also allow us to achieve all of these goals, which government representatives are talking about so well. But how many times have you heard that we must have such an approach to public finances, not from the opposition, from government representatives, to be truly stable and sustainable in the medium and long term. Yeah, what do we do if we do things like this? This is a complete nonsense, and we are firmly against it. However, once again, I would like to say that we are committed to this and are ready to support one smart approach to solving these long-term problems. There are also such inconsistencies and really incomprehensible shortcomings in both articles, which can only be explained by the fact that some in this Slovenian country are still in a hurry to create a legal framework in the last part of this wild privatisation in Slovenia, so that we can adopt as soon as possible, because the clock is running out and the time is running out. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This proposal makes absolutely no sense. I am sure that this will also be an example, someone will sometimes only study what we approved and did in this national assembly, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere, what needs to be done, what mistakes can be made in this area. And this is the one the government has proposed. It's incomprehensible that he was prepared in the '60s, and now, during the holidays, they'll make arrangements, but in a year and a half they couldn't bring it. But we do know that this needs a systemic solution to interfere with systemic laws, which also need to be changed, that we need one concession law, once which is supposed to be prepared for eight years. And that's solved with one single article. I hope we can hear any more arguments. The ones we've heard in the working body, I assure you, aren't enough, not yet. And it is sad that after that long debate, when we voted, this proposal came to us all at the table. In the '60s, when nothing happens, when everyone has to wait for an order from the Ministry of Finance, it can work on a system law and be brought here to this national assembly. Yeah, well, if not in this house, these things will be decided. Why would this national assembly today give up its historical responsibility and decide to adopt a system law in this area? And all those changes that are needed to make this happen successfully. In the '60s, nothing's gonna happen. In the 1960s, however, many things can happen if we take a serious approach I hope that we will take this path seriously. That is, as far as Article 1 is concerned, which is strongly linked to Article 21 and 29. But then I'd like to come by when we get to the 15th and, above all, the 7th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about Article 1 and the amendment of the two parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment. Dear Members and Members! I'm inviting you to the hall because we're going to move on to a decision on the amendment. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 19 Members and Members voted against 34. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 has not been adopted. I am now putting to the debate Article 10 and the two amendments to this Article, which were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia and New Slovenia. One is on a special sheet, as I explained at the outset, proposing the deletion of Article 21b and Article 21d. I am opening a debate on Article 10 and both amendments. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. In the coalition of Slovenia and also in the Social Democratic Party, we are convinced that the law on the implementation of the budget is not a law to which we would always impose, which is not regulated in other sectoral laws and systemic solutions. It is therefore unacceptable to provide one of its articles with a legal basis for regulating private investment in public infrastructure in all areas of the public sector. That we do not mean this only in the coalition of Slovenia, also confirms the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which says that this solution is unacceptable. So she's flawed, she's questionable. Another more diplomatic term says it's unacceptable. I do not think it is an honor for this national council to accept solutions that are legally unacceptable, as our lawyers, the lawyers of this house, point us out. I am confident that the regulation of investments, private investment in public infrastructure is necessary in our country. In all areas. This is practically one of the cancers of our infrastructure development so far because we have not had it. That is why I am finally disappointed that governments, at the age of ten, have not settled this issue and are not regulating it now, but want to try it on some improvised way of doing it at home. Solutions can also be very dangerous, questionable, and we have also proposed this amendment to delete this and, of course, to focus more energy on systemic regulation of these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it again, I conclude Mr. Pucko, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President! I will talk about the second amendment to Article 10, which states that Article 21d is deleted in Article 10. I support this amendment because I think it is perfectly normal that the diction in the basic text was not acceptable, and I will say so. When we devoted the main part of the debate to private financing of public infrastructure, we forgot little about this article, which should have already been deleted on the Committee. I therefore propose that we support the amendment that speaks of the deletion of Article 21d. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Doesn't anyone want another word? Can I close the debate? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Let me explain, as I have already explained in the presentation of the Group of Members that this is an article 21d which says that this provision would result in the loss of the basic criteria for demarcating between the revenues of two years. The amount of value added tax collected for this year cannot be counted as next year’s revenue and can be reduced in the following year’s deficit, but can be increased this year. That's why I think it's the only acceptable solution from an accounting point of view. That is why we are proposing this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I can now conclude the debate on Article 10 and the two amendments. We're moving on to decision-making. First of all, we will decide on the proposal by the Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party to delete Article 21b because it is closer. We decide on this amendment first. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. 19 votes against 41 Members and Members of Parliament. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that this amendment to Article 10 has not been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the same candidates to delete Article 21b. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We are now going to the debate on Article 15. I think you already have on your hands another amendment to the Procedural Proposal, Mr. Bajuk. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam President! The Committee also proposed that Article 7 of the Government proposal be deleted. Won't that go to the vote? All of a sudden, we went over it. If not, I would formally table an amendment to keep Article 7 of the Government's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u176	Dr. Bayuk. All the amendments proposed on the Committee and adopted there are included in the amended proposal of the law and are deleted in paragraph 7. In the amended bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u177	I propose that the Government's proposal be retained and paragraph 7 not deleted. How am I supposed to make this amendment? Do I give it to you orally or do you want me to write it? It says here it can be done during the session. So we're still in session. I suggest that Article 7 be maintained. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u178	Dr. Bayuk. Your services will probably explain to you that we are discussing and deciding on individual articles and amendments tabled in the course of the debate until the beginning of the discussion. We're at the 10th. Thus, Article 7 is not, or is already, Article 15. Unfortunately, Dr. Bayuk, that would not be in accordance with the rules of procedure. Article 7 has been outlined and the proposal for a law has been supplemented. May I have your attention, because we have another amendment on the bench. You're just getting it, so I'm gonna wait a minute. We'll discuss two amendments. The Members of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia propose to delete Article 29a in Article 15. However, the group of ten members proposes that the first sentence of the seventh paragraph of Article 29a be amended to read as follows: The share of the tax which, according to the criteria laid down in the first paragraph of this Article, belongs to the municipalities referred to in the third paragraph of this Article for the period from 28 March 2003 to the application of this Act shall be determined on the basis of the information obtained from the notaries and applications to the Ministry responsible for finance within 15 days of the application of this Act. Since ten Members propose to amend the first paragraph and two members to delete it, we will first have a discussion and then I will explain exactly what amendment we are voting on. I hope you're all ahead of you. Mr Visjak has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I'd just procedurally correct the amendment. There has been an unloving error and it is written 29.a, and in fact it is a 29.b article, since the explanation shows that it is again a substance similar to that of Article 21.b. That's what you call private investment. In short, it is a mistake, not to delete Article 29a, but to delete Article 29b. That's already on the table.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u180	Thank you very much. By the end of the debate on Article and Amendment, the proposers may amend the text of the amendment. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Beumann, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The amendment, which is now being divided, refers to the amendment, as previously stated, to the first sentence, not to the first paragraph, of the first sentence of the seventh paragraph of Article 29.a. This is because, as it is written down, it is inoperable and the municipalities, which, while entitled to the work of a tax on the sale of non-walled building land, do not have such data if they are not alone in the role of the seller. This amendment has only this ambition to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. In view of the amendment being corrected by the motions, it reads: "Article 15(b) is deleted." This is a farthest amendment than the amendment of the 10 Members, that the first sentence of paragraph 7 in Article 29a should be amended to read as I have previously presented it. We first vote on the amendment to Article 15 of the 10 Members. We're voting. Members and honourable Members of the Commission [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u183	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u184	There's nothing to apologize for. I think I'm clear enough to explain more than I think is necessary because you have written products in front of you. Mr. Bajuk says I want to be a professor, but I will try to explain what we decide. And I think I've explained it twice, three times and clearly enough. The amendment of the 10 Members to Article 15 was not adopted. We are now deciding on the amendment of two parliamentary groups [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Your Honor! First of all, we voted on the amendments of the ten Members to amend the first sentence of paragraph 7 in Article 29a to read as stated in Article 29a, so we decide first. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u185	Dear President! You said we were going to vote on a more distant amendment, which is why we voted that way. And that's how I understood and not just me, probably others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u186	Your Honor, allow me to interrupt the session for a few minutes, to take a magnetogram, because I want to clarify whether I gave a clear instruction, and if the instructions were not clear, we will discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u187	Unfortunately, we must find that my prediction was perfectly correct. The announcement was: "...as the amendment of the two groups of Members has been amended and, therefore, attacking Article 29b is far more distant, so we will first vote on the amendment of the ten Members, which is...." and I read it and I said, "We are therefore voting on the amendment." Indeed, my instructions were without question as far as you were following him. So, [[...]] We are now voting on the second amendment of the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party to Article 15 to delete Article 29b. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. Your Honor! 29.b Article, as I mentioned in my presentation, has some particular interest, and that is, the first is that the provisions of Article 21b, which you have already adopted - a historical error, apply to the municipalities as well. However, the congregations are treated differently. The municipalities are subject to certain restrictions. Restraints, which have also changed, quickly in the parent’s working body. The government has proposed 2% of the revenue realised in the approved budget of the previous year, reduced by assigned revenue. This was followed by a quick vote of 3%. So much so that you will also understand how quickly this worked, how deeply it was the idea of the proponents to raise by 50% quickly. But the interesting thing is that the proponents, the government and the majority in the committee take as normal that there must be some restrictions in the field of municipalities and no restrictions in the field of the state, absolutely none. You've already voted for this! And despite the fact that you voted, I would say, you also voted on something that the Prime Minister himself here in this Chamber said on Monday afternoon that when I mentioned to him that such laws were not only adopted, but that some proposed, he literally replied to me, "I am convinced" - when I mentioned ZIPRO and this article 21.b - "I am sure that the Minister of Finance will listen to your warnings." Well, it's not the Prime Minister's fault, no one's to blame, only Dr. Marble is now responsible for these things. But let's get back to this 29.b article. Why will you vote the restrictions on the congregations? And if you vote for the restrictions on the congregations, why didn't you vote for the country? But the state can do without limitation, without further ado. We can move forward, cheerfully forward. Welcome! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In view of what has happened, however, we must be aware that, of course, the rules must be respected. This must also respect common sense. Now, it is impossible for the man who proposes the amendment to vote against him. Okay, we can joke, but it's not a joke, of course. We could all be a little more serious together and realize that because of a certain error, it can also be corrected. Without looking at it this is not a criticism of you, Vice President, the situation was simply such that the people who proposed this amendment voted against because they thought it was another amendment. [[...]] And now, if there is a common sense, then such a situation can be rectified.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u191	Mr. Battelli, thank you very much. You probably know we can't talk in this case about common sense. We've established rules of procedure. We've established rules of the game. And the mother of democracy is respect for procedure, and in fact, it is the same for all. It's the same for everyone. And unfortunately, in this case, there was a valid vote, and sometimes we were wrong, and sometimes we were thinking about other things, and the person was inattentive. That's what happened to us, I think, almost everyone in this room already. Personally, I am sorry if I could explain in my own words the question that anyone could question what we are deciding. Unfortunately, after the magnetogram, I realized that there really was no doubt in my words. I'm really sorry, Mr. Battelli. I'm asking if anyone else would like to explain. Procedural proposal, please, Mr. Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Given what's going on in the National Assembly, at least I have a feeling, and I have an assessment that some people are wrong - that they're actually incompetent, that's right. And I would suggest that we vote on tomorrow at 10 a.m. - because of this. And also because it seems to me that it is insurmountable that only a handful of Members sitting here vote on such important things as the law we are currently considering, and it is a real shame for this national assembly on the left and on the right to do so. I would therefore suggest that we put to a procedural vote and proceed with this meeting tomorrow, because we still have a lot to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, you probably meant to say we're tired, unable to do anything. That's a bad grade. On the basis of your procedural proposal, I can assess that Mr Moge thinks we are tired. Dear Members and Members. The President may assess the suspension of the work of the National Assembly and proceed tomorrow, otherwise the National Assembly itself will not decide on this under the current Rules of Procedure. However, as far as I am aware, the agreement at the College of the President of the National Assembly was that today the National Assembly would conclude its work. I think there are only a few more points - ZIPRO we can finish very quickly. We also asked the government to prepare us a harmonisation amendment. I'm really asking for your attention, and we're moving on with our work. We no longer vote in accordance with the new rules of procedure on such procedural proposals to decide what to do and to postpone. So please, if anyone would like to suggest this further, here you are, Mr Cuckoo. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u194	Given that what has happened many times has been repeated that the government coalition has rejected some amendment only because it has been proposed by the Slovenian Coalition, regardless of its content, and because we find that this amendment has also been rejected in good faith that the proposal is a coalition, so you have rejected it, regardless of its content, I propose procedurally that the government coalition allow itself a quarter hour or half an hour of rest and consider whether it is a good procedure to always reject the amendment of the coalition, regardless of its content [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u195	Mr. Cuckoo!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u196	It would not be good to think about the content on which it is voted.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u197	Dear Members and Members! Procedural proposals - indeed, these are not procedural proposals. So please, if we can get on with our work, or I'll be slow to lose my sanity, too, because I don't know where we are anymore. We therefore vote on the amendment of the two groups of Members to delete Article 29b. We're voting. May I have your attention, because we are voting. There are 54 of us present, 18 votes against 35. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. I am now putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the members of New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the two parliamentary groups to Article 22. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 16 votes against 37. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Your Honor! I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 10. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] . We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since no additional amendments have been tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a full decision on the law. Neither the government's representative nor the legal and regulatory services have informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We therefore vote on the law. Voice explanation, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote against this law, including for that reason, and now I will explain one part that I could not before because of my own misunderstanding of the Rules of Procedure and I was sure that I would be able to debate on Article 7 but could not. The interesting thing is that one of the most positive things, the only positive thing I could find in this law, I also mentioned in my presentation, was the addition of paragraph 7 and paragraph 8 of Article 7. And this is that the government will finally propose and explain how it is necessary and imperative that, in fact, all, irrespective of Article 125 of the Public Procurement Act, all the authorities of the State Administration, when awarding, should act in accordance with the Government Regulation governing the low-value procurement procedure. The explanation was that this was absolutely necessary, and we agreed, and how we agreed! You know very well that the area of public procurement - I am very interested, we also had a difficult debate on that law, but we have already accepted that it will go forward, if everything is all right - and without explanation it was lined up. Not only was there no explanation on the parent's working body lined, there is no explanation - it's lined, it's lined! The interesting thing is that Mr Minister, when he started his presentation in the National Assembly this morning, mentioned it as one point that we will also accept it. I assume that you voted your own minister that he did not know that his proposal was over-voted and lined up in the home working body and today you have voted against it. That's how it's done in this country! That is also why I will vote against this law with all my determination. But the responsibility is yours, and remember!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the law. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 44 votes against 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u200	We're moving to 17. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. The assembly will address three matters under this item: the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint three members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, two proposals from the Council of Justice and a proposal from the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We will now move to a debate and a decision on these three proposals. We will first focus on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint three members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of Article 36 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed that we appoint Prof. Ivan Ribnikar, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec and Mag as members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. Oh, my God, Jashovich. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic wish to further explain his proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal by the President of the Republic was addressed by the Commission on Elections. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I propose that we join the debate on all three proposed candidates. Who wants a word? Comrade Tuck, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. It is therefore human resources matters which have a relatively large impact on the functioning of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, the Bank has recently proved to be an institution on which to build and build a solid operation, both a supervisory function and monitoring of developments in other banks. We're not just thinking about the SIB bank, we're thinking about the Cranium Bank and stuff. And one would expect that in these institutions there would be some human resources better refreshments or some discreet personnel checks of old tested personnel going through these events in some way with a stain of inefficiency. Thus, the composition of the candidates in some names is less appropriate, in others more, but we expected a better, clearer and more decisive refreshment of the Bank's Council. In fact, if all three names were fresh, it would still be only a third of the freshness, so that we think that in the future it would be more appropriate to look at, to choose more decisively, and not so much to look at the dependence on any connection, or the eminence, which has not proved to be in these trial years.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u202	Okay. Mr Jerovšek also applied for the debate, which is not in the Chamber at this time, so that I conclude the debate and move on to the vote. May I have your attention, please? In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Law on Banka Slovenije, the National Assembly on the Appointment of Candidates for Members of the Board of the Bank shall vote in secret. In accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret vote shall be held by the Commission, which shall consist of four other Members, who shall be elected in addition to the President. These are colleagues of Moge, Kelemina, Yuri and Levich. I am also a member of this commission, as chairman. Does anyone object to such a proposal? Nobody. Then we move on to the decision on the composition of this commission. We vote on the composition of the commission. Please. We vote on the composition of the commission. 50 in attendance, 48 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 48.]] [[1 versus.]] I take it that we have elected the Commission in the proposed composition. Make sure we don't repeat the embarrassment we witnessed a little while ago, and I suggest that there is peace in the hall. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 3 votes will be delivered to the Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by giving his name and surname. In particular, I want to make it clear that the vote is to surround the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 37 of the Bank of Slovenia Act, each proposed candidate will be appointed if the majority of all Members vote for him or her, i.e. at least 46. We will vote here in the voting room. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We will now proceed to a secret ballot. Before I ask Members to assist me in voting and we will report to room 217, I propose that we agree on one more thing that is not related to this agenda item, but to the holding of the sitting today. I propose that, at the time when the vote for Members and Members is concluded, the Committee on Finance should meet by the time I announce the results of the vote. As far as I could be consulted, it would be enough for the committee to meet at this time and prepare everything necessary to decide on the next meeting. This will now decide that the vote will begin at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes. It will take 15 minutes for Members and a half hours for the committee - 45 minutes later, so we will meet at 6 p.m. and 50 minutes. The vote will last between 18:00 and 5 minutes until 18:00 and 20 minutes. I'll explain again. The vote will begin at 6 p.m. and 5 minutes, until 6 p.m. and 20 minutes. It will then be half an hour for the Committee on Finance to meet. We'll meet again in the hall at 6 p.m. and 50 minutes. Now I'm asking the committee to help me run the vote so we can meet quickly in room 217. By 6:00 and 50 minutes, I'm adjourning the session. After the end of the vote at 6 p.m. and 20 minutes, I ask the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Comrade Puck, to convene a committee meeting in the big salon. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u203	Colleagues and colleagues, would you please be so kind as to occupy your seats? We will continue with the agenda item, first reading the minutes of the three votes. May I have your attention, please? First of all, I will take note of the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate Prof. Dr. Ivan Ribnik as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was today in the Houses of the National Assembly. 64 ballots were distributed. 64 ballots were delivered, 2 were invalid, 62 were valid. "For" was voted by 49 Members and "against" 13. On the basis of this outcome, Prof. Dr. Ivan Ribnikar was appointed a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. The mandate shall begin on 11 September 2003. Minutes of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec, as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. This vote was also today, 64 ballots were distributed, and so much was given. No valid 64. "For" was voted by 62 Members, "against" by 2. On the basis of this outcome, Dr. Boštjan Jazbec was appointed as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. The term of office shall also begin on 11 September of this year. Finally, the third report, the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the appointment of the proposed candidate mag. Boža Jašovica as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was today in the Houses of the National Assembly. 64 ballots were distributed, so much submitted, 3 were invalid, 61 were valid. "For" was voted by 47 Members, "against" was voted by 14 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mag was appointed by the majority of all Members as members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years. Oh, my God, Jashovich. It shall also begin its term of office on 11 September 2003. On behalf of the National Assembly, I congratulate all the candidates who have been appointed, and I wish them great success in their work! This concludes this part of the agenda item. Let's move on to the next issue related to the mandate-election issues. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial office of the Judge and Judge for Offences before the Judge for Izola and Novo Mesto. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Chairman of the Election Commission? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of the parliamentary groups and Members have not applied for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Nataša Pruša Aničič to the judicial seat of the Judge for Offences before the Judge for Offences in Izola. We're voting. 50, 43 for, no one against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Boštjan Kovic to the judge's seat for offences before the Judge for Offences in Novi Grad. We're voting. 52 present, 44 for and none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one's against it.]] This proposal has also been adopted. I would like to congratulate both of them on their appointed function, and I would like to wish them a successful job. In the third case, we will decide on a proposal for a decision appointing the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. Does the president want a word? He doesn't want to. He wants the word of his colleague Jerovšek? Please, you have the floor. Excuse me, first of all, Comrade Sušnik on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. I'm sorry, my friend Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u204	A well-respected choir. Members of the Social Democratic Party oppose the adoption of a decision appointing members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Despite our constant warnings and demands, the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Committee is in total contradiction with our generally known demand to increase the level of democracy in Slovenia. Our "no" is conditioned by your persistent rejection and the impeding of our demands after the appointment of at least one third of the members of the Supervisory Boards in public companies, state-owned funds and state-owned companies on a proposal from parliamentary parties that have not supported the government. In this way, the opposition would also be able to access the data, ensure minimum supervision and, above all, rational spending of money in the public sector. The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has been established as a tool for the formulation of agricultural policy and for the economic management of agricultural land and forests with the primary and most important objective of providing land to those who are also willing to process it. It is indisputably the foundation and primary task of the Fund, to encourage such transport with agricultural land and such forest management, which will in the long term strengthen the economic and general situation of the family farm as the main and most important operator and holder of agricultural development and indirectly rural development. The proposal to appoint a supervisory committee shall also be incomplete from that point of view and from the agricultural policy objective. There are no farmers, no farmers among the five proposed members, and that is why the Members of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will not vote in favour of the decision on appointment. Veterinary and veterinary authorities control key levers of agricultural policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Under cover of protection of safe food, the veterinarian uncompromisingly enforces its narrow cecho and solely financial gainful interests. Slovenia has become and remains an extremely veterinary country in the worst sense of the word. Veterinary measures are incomprehensible and specific at the expense of the farmer, regardless of the consequences of his work, irrespective of the deteriorating situation of livestock farming as the most important part of Slovenian agriculture. The proposed five members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia are as many as three veterinarians, which is sufficient reason for caution and reflection, and therefore we also oppose the appointment of the Supervisory Board in the proposed composition and thus protest against this attempt to break and dominate the veterinary system in the area of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore call on this assembly, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group, to reject the decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, and I recommend to the Election Commission that a new proposal for a decision be drawn up that takes into account - I am sure - the legitimate concerns I have expressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The report of the Commissioner-Immunity Commission on the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia accidentally started reading on the last, third party where one of the proposed candidates was not written, but there were four, and when I looked at this selection, I was convinced that I was reading the proposal of the Supervisory Committee of the Veterinary Administration of Slovenia. Because in fact, there's also our former colleague, Branko Tomažič, who is an animal breeder after specialization, so he's actually a body. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the establishment of this Supervisory Committee. In fact, when I have yet to see how it has been done on the Commission's mandate-immunity and what objectives have obviously been pursued, I can say that the LDS is pursuing its hegnomy in all areas. To work as a bulldozer does not take into account any arguments, no interests of this country. This is about land, agricultural land, building land and here are long-term interests that are uncompromising with bulldozer technology, technology through its satellites. And, in fact, have it, do it. You're not ashamed. You're embarrassing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u207	Peace in the hall! Order!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u208	You're not embarrassed, we know that, but somewhere it's gonna end. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u209	I see a few deadlines for discussion, and I must warn you that this is not possible. It may be possible to explain your vote if you so wish and now when deciding on the proposal to appoint the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of two years. Who, then, wants to explain his voice? Comrade Kebrich, Comrade Sok. Please, Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will explain my vote that I will vote against the proposal of a mandate-immunity commission. My three fellow Members will do the same. For we believe that this composition, as submitted, is not appropriate. We have also proposed our candidate, Mr Zoran Lesnik, the agricultural technician. Why it fell out, it is not difficult to guess, because in this supervisory council it worked both for the benefit of the farmer's life and for certain, of course, it did not fit, and therefore this proposal has not been adopted by the Commission and we cannot therefore vote for the composition that it has submitted to the National Assembly of the Immunity Commission. The composition mirrored a particular profession of one part of the agricultural economic life and therefore we believe that the composition should be quite different and I will therefore vote as colleagues against it and I hope that this proposal will not be voted on and that it will give us a new opportunity to have such a composition proposed by a mandate-immunity commission, which will be proportionately distributed not only through such a line but also through a profession. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u211	Thank you very much. My friend Sok. Voice explanation, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Nor do I intend to support this proposal, not because the three colleagues of my residence are proposed to this Supervisory Board. Apparently, the view on Kwiaz prevailed that we are best acquainted with the farmland, and that is probably how they decided to do so. But what bothers me in particular is that there is really no one in this proposal who is directly involved in agricultural production. We made such a proposal, but obviously it was not a wish, and I now understand that the SDS has made such a proposal. You voted on a committee. I would like to remind you of an anonymous writing that surrounded Slovenia before we appointed the Director of the Agricultural Lands Fund in this National Assembly. What bothers me in particular is, in addition, the highly political way in which you employ coalition parties to a large extent, the fact that he has joined, I would say, the family principle of recruitment. That you have looked here and suggested certain heads of the councils to your family members. And that, you know, is completely politically unhygienic. So, for these reasons, of course, I will vote against this proposal and I hope that this proposal will not receive a sufficient majority today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u213	My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u214	I'll explain my voice. Otherwise, I am a member of Kviaz, and I remember the vote very clearly. I'm gonna hold myself back because I don't think there's any tragedy if any of the things Kviaz defines go through in the National Assembly. But I am speaking because I remember that there is no one in Kviaz who has pointed out the things you are now talking about; nor does Mr Sušnik, but it would be very valuable, as Vice-President Quiaz. Secondly, I should say that the parliamentary groups have proposed candidates, namely, the parliamentary groups have also been very loud, for no reason whatsoever, but perhaps by accident, these veterinary lobbyes have been chosen. And secondly, let me say that the LDS has proposed two, like the others, and has withdrawn one of its members. We said we'd delete him as a candidate. And I think it's kind of unfair -- not to use a worse word -- to report that this LDS is "fura as a bulldozer". We withdrew ours, and we voted. None of the members of Quiaz have given any warning. I think the arguments are serious enough, the way I feel is humble, and yet I will abstain.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u215	Let's refrain from qualifications for our actions, please. Comrade Sušnik, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I will take advantage of the possibility of explaining my vote and a little misuse of the rules of procedure also because of the fact that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u217	No, you can't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u218	I'm talking to Mr. Partlich. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u219	There's no controversy! There's no controversy in the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u220	I will not vote in favour of such a proposal because it does not seem appropriate. However, I was not able to draw attention to Kwiaz because we were convinced that, with the proposed candidates from the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, and with the assurance of Mr Anderlic from last May's meeting of Kwiaz, that the principle of third representation in the supervisory councils would be followed, that Members who have a majority in Kviaz would take this assurance into account and that at least one of the proposed candidates from the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia would receive sufficient support. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. Mr President concluded the debate. He just announced the results and there was no way to say anything on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u221	I ask that you do not state in your explanations and do not dispute with other views, because those who are politicised do not have the opportunity to respond to your debate. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I shall exceptionally vote in favour of this proposal. Given that we have two important bodies in the Agricultural Land Fund, this is the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Business policy is governed by an administrative committee which, in my opinion, is also properly composed to do what it has to do. This body is a supervisory body and needs more or less educated people who control the operations of the funds. Personally, I am also disturbed, as you may have noticed on several occasions, that the overinclusion of the veterinary system in the administration of the country often disturbs me and in some places causes great problems. However, here I see that this body is that we have, above all, quite a lot of highly educated people in this proposal, because they will not be able to express their, as far as they are concerned, veterinary ambitions, because they will not be possible through the competences of this body. Even the eyewitnesses that my colleague Partljič has already rejected - only one is ours, if you're looking at it. And he has his opposition, and he has the first. I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u223	I saw another hand. I'm not sure. Yes, yes, Comrade Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Although I have already explained my point of view, the information I have heard here is that it is some of the candidates for express nepotism and clientism, but I find it really unacceptable, completely unacceptable, because just when Mr. Juban said it is now a supervisory body [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u225	Peace. Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u226	I'm not embalming.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u227	None [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u228	the supervisory authority. [[...]] In the supervisory authorities, not in the courts, people who are related must be excluded. Not that they're being staged, programmed to do exactly what they shouldn't do. And I must say that that void, in the area of the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund, was not accidental. And in this area of agricultural transport, on the basis of such a candidate list, such a choice can be imagined and many things will happen. And nepotism and clienteleism don't predict good things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u229	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u230	I will vote in favour of this proposal, not for the reason that I think it is a particularly happy choice of these candidates, but because it is, I will say, a normal procedure when we call on members of the groups to propose candidates and then we try to determine this combination more or less happily. Unfortunately, it would take too long for me to say from this list, what we have appointed during this term, the supervisory and other committees, how these mandates are divided by group, but given the proportion of the votes we have in this assembly, it is only fair to say that this representation in the supervisory committees and in other committees, in which it is proposed by Kviaz, on the proposal of the members of the groups, is approximately reflected. I'd say he's leaving two groups. That this is a major imbalance, a major imbalance in relation to the strength of the Group of Members, is in the case of DeSUS when a small group of Members has a large surplus of appointments, and a large deviation in a negative sense is in the case of LDS when a large group has the largest deficit of a higher-and-higher percentage. This is a fact of these statistics, which we are also following. The second deficit is then on the Social Democrats' side, and the second surplus is, if I'm not mistaken, on the side of the People's Party, but these things are trying to mitigate on a broader scale, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u231	Time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u232	because for five cities, of course, it is not possible to propose by proportion from nine groups. [[...]] You can trust me on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u233	Thank you. Please. An explanation of vote, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For me personally, I have to say, this is a fantastic situation. The opposition in one of the Gorenje municipalities consists of the Liberal Democracy and the United List. And she made a wish days ago with six demands for the so-called democratisation of municipal, political life. It's those six points, but it's on the hair. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u235	This is not the subject of this discussion! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u236	I know, Mr. President. When I'm done with the introduction, I'll get to the subject of this case. Well, and there in one of those demands is also at least a percentage equivalent to the election results of the opposition's representation on the supervisory committees, on the committees of those municipal companies and so on. And they're horribly fighting and complaining, and now they've noticed that the mayor has a lollipop car and so on. However, that is why, Mr President, to remind these same people of their duality, there are two faces, one on the other, depending on the position that this party is in. I'll certainly be against this proposal myself. Against this because I cannot even agree with the predecessor that the LDS is in the worst position as a percentage [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u237	Don't argue!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u238	How could it be worse than nothing? Could the members be even less than nothing? I simply don't understand these explanations and, of course, I would like to think about it. Once again, I will oppose this because I also oppose all such policies at the municipal level. However, the policy we are learning from you is used elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u239	Thank you. I believe that we can now vote on the appointment of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of two years. We're voting. Present 58, 33 for and 17 for. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this point. I suggest we go to the budget. On the bench you received an additional report and a harmonisation amendment to the proposal for a rebalancing. May I have your attention, please? [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? I suggest we get on with it, if you don't mind. Please! The harmonisation amendment to the 2003 draft rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] He wants to speak to the chairman of the committee? [[Not at all.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the balance of the state budget. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 45 in and 13 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are voting on the proposals for a full budget rebalancing. We're voting, please! We are voting on the 2003 budget balance as a whole. 57 present, 42 for and 12 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that we have adopted the budget balance for this year. We have a decision proposed by the Committee: "The National Assembly authorizes the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Puck and Mr Willi Trofenik and Mr Andrey Visiak to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service, the final text of the 2003 State Budget Balance based on the decisions taken by the National Assembly." We're voting! We are voting on this proposal. 58 present, 51 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] This proposal is adopted. Let us move forward with the points set out in the agenda. We're at 3. Dots. Thirdly, a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on pre-arranged drug compositions. Can we make a decision? Is the National Assembly ready? Yes, it is. We're voting! We're voting on the law. 56 present, 54 for and 1 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and therefore the third point has been concluded. At point 4, we are looking at the third reading of the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law. I'm moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting! May I have your attention, please? 55 present, 48 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] The law has been adopted and thus concludes this item on the agenda. At point 5, we have a third reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on goats of mythical products. We decide on the bill. We're voting! Excuse me. Just a moment. I'm calling off the vote. Just a moment to see if there's an amendment or not, then we can decide. Just a moment, we'll check it out, then we'll make a decision. Then we will move on to the proposal of the War Cemetery Act, the Housing Act, and we will meet slowly. So? Yes, an amendment has been tabled at the third reading of Article 21 of the four LDS, ZLSD, SLS and DeSUS. It's about Article 21. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] First, we will move on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 21. I ask that the competent services also monitor the voting process so that something does not go wrong. Can we make a decision? We vote on the amendment tabled by the four groups of Members to Article 21. 55 present, 45 for and 1 against [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Is that why, Madam Secretary of State, there's been a discrepancy? Can we make a decision? Thank you very much. Now we're going to decide the whole law. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 45 and 9 were opposite. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. That's how point 5 is concluded. There's a six in front of us. Dot of the Day - Third Defence Bill on War Cemetery. We'll move on to a decision on the law. Please, Comrade Tsukati, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. Our party, in view of everything that has happened to this law, is predicting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an obstruction of voting. First of all, because the law is supposed to rehabilitate and settle the silenced cemeteries and, in fact, it legitimizes the silence of revolutionary violence. Further, the marriage was supposed to be respectful to the dead, and in fact, you killed soldiers after the war robbery of the only honor, the status of soldiers. And thirdly, the law is supposed to be of a reconciliation nature, but in fact it expresses great ignorance about the interests of the dead victims, towards the interests of those represented by the New Slovenian Commitment. The law was supposed to soften the injustices and divisions of 1945, but it actually deepens them. And marriage should be an expression of our maturity, for it is only then that man and nation are able to accept themselves when they are able to face their past openly and critically. This process must include a change of mind, a change in heart and spirit, a Council of Europe resolution on measures to eliminate the legacy of the former totalitarian communist regimes. However, it turns out that we have not matured this step. Nothing has taught us history, we still share this nation in black and white, positive, negative, and because of all this we cannot participate and be present in such a shameful act as the adoption of this law. Pressure on the button is a small action with severe consequences; it is pressure where it does not matter whether it is made out of joy or bitterness in the heart, the consequences are the same. That's why we're leaving the hall at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Comrade Dr. Bayuk, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will also leave the Chamber. We will leave the hall, although it is technically called obstruction, we are actually leaving the hall because it was not possible to reach that minimum consensus to settle this issue, this open-ended wound of our history in a dignified manner that respects human rights. The law, such as it is, is actually offensive to the slain and to the relatives, so we cannot agree with it and regret that it was not possible to arrange otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Obstruction's announced, right? There's been an obstruction, my colleague, Dr. Bernick, so I can't give you a vote, but I would give you a vote if you'd come forward, and I'd give you my word if you'd heard from me sooner. Can we make a decision? Please. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law on war graves in its entirety. We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 47 in attendance, 44 in and 3 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the War Cemetery Act has been passed, thus concluding this item on the agenda. And I'm going to continue with 7. PERIOD OF THE DAY - PROPOSAL OF HOUSE LAW, with which we will also conclude today’s meeting. We have a coordinating amendment. More of them. First, please? You received the harmonisation amendment on the bench. We've got more. Anybody want to talk about them? Please, Comrade Sok, you have the floor. Please, if the microphone goes off there. Comrade Sok has his word, everyone else please be kind to whoever comes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u244	Thank you for your word. I would ask you, Mr President, if the legislative and legal service interprets such a harmonisation amendment with which the amendment or the content adopted under Article 103 is translated by this harmonisation amendment, I think in Article 198. So, I'd like to explain if this is really about the harmonisation amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u245	Please give me a few minutes' rest. At this time, he wants the word "minister."
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u246	Thank you very much. We have proposed such a harmonisation amendment on the proposal of the legislative service.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u247	Please, can you explain this? Please, can you explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u248	The legislative and legal service shall have or have both, in accordance with the business rules, the separate competence of assessing non-compliance in the law. And not one about the other does not have a business opportunity to assess the proposed harmonisation. I have warned this assembly about this a long time ago, so that from a professional point of view we do not have any comments on these amendments, but we do not have the authority to comment on them in business.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u249	Good. We'll decide on the harmonisation amendment. We'll go in the order you have in your review. First on the article, i.e. on the amendment to Article 29. We're voting. We're in the process of coordinating the amendments. We are voting on that to Article 29. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 48 in attendance, 38 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing he's been voted. Article 103. We're voting. 49, 38 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I'm guessing he's been voted. Article 192. We're voting. Peace in the hall. Please, we're all a little tired and we need to be very careful. 53 present, 40 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I understand this has been adopted. Article 198. Another final harmonisation amendment. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 51 present, 39 for, 6 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I take it this one's been adopted, too. By making a full decision on the law. Can we vote? Please. We vote no. [[...]] Excuse me. I'm calling off the vote. A voice explanation, perhaps, Comrade Tanko? Please. Explanation of voice. Attention in the hall. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u250	The law, which we will now decide on, has very partial corrections, which are largely consistent with lobbyist groups. Most segments of the law are incomplete and remain unresolved important areas. Thus, the issue of the reserve fund is not regulated because the ceiling is not set and not all housing owners are treated equally. The scope of subsidies is not regulated, especially in this area, the number of beneficiaries will be reduced and subsidies will also be reduced. In this area, it means a certain saving of the country and a small amount of social assistance. There is also no uniform arrangement in all municipalities for emergency assistance, no supervision of the government and Parliament over the indebtedness of the housing fund is ensured, and thus the ineffective operation of the national savings scheme is maintained. It is also contrary to our interests that the provision on own participation, which will burden the most vulnerable, those non-profit tenants, and also discriminatoryly regulates the area of denationalisation, which carries the conflict between tenants and owners, and the country has completely recovered from this. In our opinion, too, this is a very important area of State aid, not covered by this law, and it makes it impossible to obtain housing, especially for young groups. Finally, there will also be tremendous increases in non-profit rents, so we do not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I saw another hand. Whose? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I'm not voting for this law myself. I estimate that this law is weak, that it introduces a lot of bureaucratic procedures, so to speak, a lot of red tape. I think, too, that it will prove to be constitutionally controversial because the legal regulation of the reserve fund is an intervention in private property and, of course, from this point of view, it will appear that our citizens will be in an unequal position in accordance with the Constitution. You simply told those who live in rentals or who live in apartments that do not have enough resources to build their own houses that they would have to invest in a reserve fund. However, this reserve fund will be managed by the state-imposed administrators, who will then interfere with the rights of these tenants. Nor does the law resolve the issue of all tenants in denationalised apartments; neither for those who live and who want to solve this problem, nor for the owners of these re-acquired apartments. For this reason, we have repeatedly warned of this in the debate itself, for all these reasons we will not vote in favour of this housing law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-06-19-SDZ3-Redna-27.ana.u253	Okay, then we can decide the whole law now. We're voting! Attention in the hall! We are voting on the law as a whole. Housing law has been passed. 53 present, 36 for and 13 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that we have adopted this item on the agenda, which was the last on the agenda of the regular June session. The 27th meeting was closed. Thank you all for your cooperation. Have a nice Friday and have a nice weekend. On Monday, however, the National Assembly continues its work. Thank you.
