ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! Nice greetings to those who will join us, and I would like to turn to them so that they can come from the lobby to the hall. We'll start the session in a moment. My colleagues and colleagues, once again, a very nice greeting for everyone. We will start the 28th regular session of the National Assembly. I called on her on the basis of Rule 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Before we set the agenda, I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues will be absent today. These are colleagues of Lavrič, colleagues of Battelli, Dr. Brejc, Butolen, Horvat, Jakič, Janša, Kacin, Peterle and colleague Cyril Pucko. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items this time as usual. On the 1st item of the Prime Minister, Mag. Anton Ropa, who will answer the first four parliamentary questions. At the 12th point, I invited the President of the State Council. The 15th item will be attended by a representative of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in our country. For the 26th item of the agenda, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the representative of the Judicial Council. I welcome all those present once again. We are now moving on to the agenda for the 28th meeting. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure, which was received by reference to 2 July this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I did not receive any proposals for the withdrawal of each item on the agenda within the time limit. In this regard, I should like to inform you that, by letter of 8 July, the Government informed the National Assembly that it was withdrawing its proposal to appoint a National Council for Culture, so that the National Assembly would not consider this proposal under this item, which is otherwise on the agenda. Now I'd like to ask for your attention in particular. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that the agenda of this session be extended by considering the proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. You received my proposal by letter of 8 July this year. As a proposaler, I would just like to remind you that, after the date for collecting signatures after this deadline, I have received from the initiators the necessary number of signatures and that we are obliged to adopt a decision in accordance with our powers, in which we will also take a decision on the period when the rights to which they are being claimed will also apply. It is the right for people to decide on the issue at the referendum. I ask whether a government representative wishes to speak on this matter. He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Please, on behalf of the SDS delegation? Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u2	The Group of Members will support your proposal, even because it was a co-actor or because we were very much encouraged to collect signatures. And given that the number has gathered very quickly, we consider that this is already a sign that it is essential to make decisions as soon as possible. That is why we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. Mag. Drobnik, New Slovenia's parliamentary group. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u4	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members - as I may have said twice before, the referendum would not have taken place and I think it would not have been necessary if the National Assembly had responded reasonably to the initiative, to amend the law, to regulate the opening time of trade, i.e. the trade law. Since this was not necessary, despite twice the abuse of the Constitutional Court, there was nothing left for others but to collect signatures. And they've been successful in gathering them. This will cost the country, of course, but it is so that we know where the reasons are for the referendum. And the New Slovenia Group will respect the will of the people who have signed the request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u5	Would any of the other MPs want it? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u6	The Liberal Democracy Group will support this motion for a decree for completely different reasons, as mentioned above. In no case is the proposal to extend the agenda - we are talking about extending the agenda, yes - so the Group of Members will support the enlargement and later also the decree. Because at the end of the day, it's a completely runaway and the only possible path. And so far, of course, it has not been possible to do otherwise as we have done and the law since the moment the initiative was put forward has not been able to be considered, and therefore, of course, we do not accept the readings and therefore, not because of this, but because of the necessity, for legal reasons, we will support this and, of course, we will discuss it later in the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, colleague Peca and no one else has a say. Comrade Jerovšek. Please, fellow Peca, you're the only one who has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! We are also aware in the Slovenian National Party of the importance and the legal path that today we must vote on this extension of the agenda. In particular, we would like to stress our disagreement with the speaker on the part of liberal democracy, because we are convinced that this country, namely the Republic of Slovenia, could avoid this referendum, in so far as the Slovenian policy, and in particular the Slovenian government, would otherwise deal with this topic. Unfortunately, we have come before the fact that people, at least for the required number of votes, over 40,000, have once again given the mistrust of the Slovenian government. We therefore assess in the Slovenian National Party that this National Assembly is at present set before the fact that it approaches the initiators of the referendum and thus allows the story to be concluded. Unfortunately, and once again, it is important to stress that Slovenian policy must bear the full burden of all the costs it will cost to carry out the referendum. This should be attributed to those who represent the so-called Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Mr. President. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we support the inclusion of the proposal for a decree on the call for a referendum on the opening times of trade in this meeting of the National Assembly. All formal conditions are met for this purpose. However, our Group of Members considers it right to call for a referendum because, so far, there has been no opportunity to find a common language, especially on the part of the administrations and managers in the shops. We believe that full liberalisation, as proposed, is not appropriate, and that on the basis of the referendum held, we hope that there will be opportunities and time for both corporate administrations, unions and consumers to sit together and find appropriate solutions to provide the necessary opening time to ensure consumers' interests, as well as to be more consistent with the views of employees and, of course, administrations and owners in these companies. The current potential for differences has not led to this. Probably too little has been done by the competent ministry to find common solutions. It seems that the referendum will be the intermediate path that will lead us to find the most optimal solution later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Podobnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It is understandable that when an extension of the agenda is proposed with a point relating to the law in force, this point is supported. The National Assembly cannot act differently than to support the proposal of the President of the National Assembly and to place this item on the agenda. It is important to ask when the referendum will be, because before the referendum there is also the so-called time after which arguments for and against will be heard. This will be a referendum that will take place very quickly on vacation. Some of your colleagues have already gone into content. The content of this referendum is mainly political, there are administrations, there are unions, there are consumers, there is a government and there is a national assembly. Let's face it, we could find a different solution. Last but not least, we have already asked the Constitutional Court twice about this subject. We could find a way to avoid a referendum in September. Now the referendum is before us, and most likely the ways in which the signatures were collected, that is, quickly, the energy was positive, most likely already predicts what solution the legislator will have to take this fall. Maybe we really made a big mistake not to adopt the law before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u13	Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Kebrich, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. There is no or no dilemma in our parliamentary group. The will of the people is our command. The Rules of Procedure and the Regulations state that it is essential that we respect this if we are to be a state of law. Therefore, our parliamentary group will vote to put this issue on the agenda for this July session today, and there will be plenty of opportunities. We hope that employers will only soften and find a solution that will satisfy both partners. Therefore, I repeat, we will vote in favour of placing this item on the agenda of the July session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u15	Okay. Anyone else want a word? As long as no one on behalf of the parliamentary groups is involved, we will then move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The proposal is to extend the agenda by a decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law amending the law on trade. We're voting. May I have your attention, we're in the middle of a vote. The extension decision shall be adopted. 67 present, 66 for and none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The assembly will consider this motion for a decree as the 27th item of the agenda on Tuesday 15 July following the conclusion of the 26th item of the agenda. We will now decide to set the agenda in full with the enlargement that we have just voted on. I propose to the National Assembly that such a proposal be adopted by means of a vote on enlargement. Can I put this to a vote? Please, we are voting on the agenda as a whole. 68 present, 64 for and none against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the Council of State has adopted the agenda of the 28th regular meeting. That way, at this point, we can stop work by 3 p.m. when the National Assembly comes to 1st, on questions from Members and Members. All, including the Prime Minister and ministers and ministers, I invite you to be correct. We'll resume at 3 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u16	We'll continue the session. I also invite the Prime Minister, we can't continue without him, it's 3 p.m. So I ask the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers to take their seats. Let me apologize to two ministers and one minister, Minister of Economy Dr. Petrinov, Minister of Culture, Mrs Richter and Minister without a portfolio responsible for European affairs, Dr. Potočnik have other obligations, they are indisposed and cannot participate in our work today. You have before you the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues, including written POSITION QUESTIONS AND THE BUDGET, and oral questions and initiatives that have not yet been answered by the Government. Today, too, I would like to express my satisfaction at reducing the backlog of questions that the government is not answering. And I hope that one day we will find ourselves in a situation where there will be no answer to any of our questions that we are asking the government. We will now go, as the rules of procedure have been said, in order to raise questions. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister of the Magi will answer to the first four. A robbery that I greet nicely between us. The Member, as you know, can ask no more than two questions, which are available to him after three minutes, the Prime Minister or the Secretary-General shall have a maximum of five minutes. The Member may, within two minutes, request a supplement to the reply and may use it to do so. The first question for the Prime Minister will be raised by his colleague, Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! Croatia's water economy, which intends to completely destroy old Drava and its trough in the 20km belt, is in breach of as many as seven international conventions signed by Croatia. Among other things, the Croatian side has reached a kilometer deep into Slovenian territory. Next, Croatia is either trying to organise or establish in silence fishing zones and economic zones, thus interfering with the European legal order which Europe opposes, but we do not hear a single voice from the Slovenian government. Croatia also intends to change the epicontinental belt, which goes to the direct damage of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise it is true that they say that Slovenia would grant concessions for the use of its own, that is to say the Slovenian sea, but how can Croatians grant concessions to the owner for the use of their own territory. In this regard, I must say that the Slovenian National Party will organise the first international conference on the success of the Adriatic Sea and the borders within the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 20 September this year in Belgrade. There are several starting points that show that the weight is on our side and international legal experts also agree. If nothing else, the sea was the property of Yugoslavia and, after the breakup of Yugoslavia, the sea belonged or should have been a success for all the republics or countries created in the area of the former Yugoslavia. I'm asking you: How will the Slovenian government react to this conference? Because I feel that at least some in the Slovenian government are more inclined to the Croatian side and are willing to endure and agree to all the abuses of neighbouring Croatia, but not to defend Slovenian national interests that are of any vital importance, since without going out to the open sea and losing Slovenian indigenous territory, we are still searching for that little Slovenia, which remains when it has always lost its territory after all the winning wars and has always been smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u19	Nicely greeted. Thank you so much for asking. Therefore, with regard to the issue relating to the border with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia, I can reiterate the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. As you are well aware, the heads of delegations negotiating the border on 20 July 2001 initialled the draft Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the common state border. This draft was confirmed by both governments, also addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy in the National Assembly and supported by it. So, as far as the border with the neighbouring Republic of Croatia is concerned, the position of the Republic of Slovenia, at least as regards the Government and also the Foreign Policy Committee, is clear and we are prepared to ratify this draft, as well. As you well know, the ratification of this Treaty has stopped on the Croatian side, there has not been first support within the committee of their assembly, and then not in the assembly itself. Our assessment is that any opening of this treaty would not be good. It is very difficult to expect that in this case we would achieve better positions and, in the context of Slovenia's interests, strengthen our interests more. So we insist on this treaty, which has been agreed, which has been initialled and supported by both governments. Of course, we regret that this agreement has not been reached and that this can, in particular, affect the population on both sides of the border. Of course, I would like to say that we are trying to make sure that, in connection with the daily life of the inhabitants on both sides, things are regulated and, in this context, I think it is important that the current temporary fishing regime, which was established last year, works and, of course, we hope that it will continue to work. As far as a specific conference is concerned. I don't know the details about her and I can't comment on her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u20	Okay. That was the Prime Minister's response. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask a further question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr President, you know that the borders are set in peace agreements, especially since the Republic of Croatia attacked the Republic of Slovenia legally by allowing tanks from its territory to enter the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We have not dealt with this matter once before, and it must also be said that there is still a question of war reparations from World War II when the independent country of Croatia, as the only country in this part of the former Yugoslavia, joined the triple pact of the Nazi coalition. In this regard, we must also ask ourselves why the delegation of the Republic of Slovenia first considered the possibility of success of the Adriatic Sea during the talks, and then withdrew it itself, while Croatia immediately began to be in mourning and was seized by considerable panic. There's something else we need to be aware of. That the question of the success of the Adriatic Sea is also the question of Italy. The fact is that Croatia is negotiating bilaterally with Italy, to the detriment of the Republic of Slovenia, and we therefore intend to open at this conference the question of Zadar, which Italy is to receive, or which is to be returned to Italy. I would like to ask you one more question, Mr President: In Athens, Croatia shared some kind of "non paper" with thesis and requests for damage to the Republic of Slovenia and would ask you: Did Owl deliver it to you, and why not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u22	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u23	Yes, there has been a whole lot of additional arguments and arguments here, which, of course, I find difficult to comment on, and I don't know if they are relevant to border issues alone. As I said, the Slovenian government insists on this treaty, which has been agreed and which is also the basis for reaching a final agreement. The Slovenian Government is interested in the best possible neighbourly relations with the Republic of Croatia, and in this context we also support Croatia's entry into the European Union, and at least as far as Athens and Thessaloniki are concerned, at these two meetings of the European Council, as well as at meetings involving countries from South-Eastern Europe, from the Balkans, there were no such discussions, not even such proposals. However, it was discussed how and in what way to help countries in this area to achieve the standards and level of legal and other arrangements and systems that would bring them closer to the European Union as soon as possible. As far as this is concerned, Slovenia will support Croatia, as well as the other countries in this area, and I am also assessing that this is the basis and the best way to improve relations, that we do not ultimately have specific problems with the border and that we are ultimately in the interests of both countries in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. The next question will be asked by your colleague France Tsukati. You have the floor, mate Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr. President! I do not think that there is a citizen in the Republic of Slovenia who would not be aware of the importance of the constitutional provision that Slovenia is a legal and social state. And we probably all realize that it's legal and only then can it be social. For if it is not legal, if it is not governed by law, then the law is stronger, it is the law stronger by fists or by capital or by political position. The first, which is supposed to prevent and prosecute crime in Slovenia, is certainly the Attorney-General, with whom we have a great deal of bad luck in this mandate. Let me just mention three cases. It took SIB a year and a half to press a complaint filed by the Ljubljana opposition, and only under great pressure from the public and the media, the Attorney General promised certain procedures, which again cover only third-class actors. The main players remain far from the right hand. The second case was the case of Petka, where the Slovenian prosecutor’s office, of course, found that it was only a case of bodily injury, and this finding was corrected by the Maribor Prosecutor’s Office by stating that it was an attempted murder, which is a huge difference on which the procedure was based and all the follow-up. The statement was that the prosecution had not cooperated with the commission, the Attorney General's statement that the prosecution had done the right thing, that it was doing the right thing, that there was no stain on it, very strange. The third case is District Attorney Gorazd Fischer. A good year ago, information came to the public about the suspicion of abuse of the position. It is illegal for the head of the office to appoint his traveling companion without adequate education, with an unjustified high salary. Under pressure from the media, the Attorney General announced some internal oversight at the time. Mr Fisher is still in his position to prosecute the crime of white collars. So the same one who abused his position unpunished should continue to persecute those who abuse their position. And he still has all the support of the Attorney General, especially when he is entrusted with the function of running a political process, such as Depala Vas. If this is the case, then I think that citizens have the right to demand that the State, the executive power, make this country a more legal and secure country. I therefore ask you again, as stated in yesterday's message: When will you propose to replace the Attorney General?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u26	I will be grateful to all those who, due to the passage of their time to perform, will not have to be interrupted, and to you, Comrade Tucky. Mr. Prime Minister, you have time to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you so much for asking. As you probably know, the Attorney General appoints the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 17 of the State Prosecutor's Act. This law also defines the way in which its discharge takes place, namely Section 40 of the State Prosecutor's Office Act and Section 41 of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Article 40 provides for his discharge in so far as he is convicted of a crime or imprisonment. However, in relation to Article 41, Article 63 of the Law on Courts shall apply, which shall indicate that it may terminate its function if it has been dissolved in accordance with this Act. So, as far as the first reasons are concerned, the conditions are not met. As for others, this discussion may be open and discussed. I would like to point out that, with regard to certain matters that have been brought before the National Assembly, the Government has also adopted a decision to assess the work of the Ministry of Justice, just in the case of Friday, and that it also proposes appropriate conclusions and conclusions. As you know, the Ministry of Justice carried out a review of the work and in this case also stated in the conclusions that the conduct of the Attorney General was correct. We all know, however, that the State Prosecutor-General has prepared a report on the prosecution's work, and this report is in the National Assembly and, of course, you will probably be very specific here, and in this regard you will also adopt the relevant conclusions. In short, on the basis of the analyses carried out so far on its work and the conclusions of the competent institutions, there is no basis for the Government to propose its discharge to the National Assembly and therefore we will not do so unless this happens further.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u28	Complementary question. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u29	Given that in recent years the prosecution has almost no bloody crime led to a conviction, no major economic crime would be resolved. Above all, those crimes and those of economic crime which have a wider organised background and which involve capital and politics, our prosecution cannot, by any means, be able, or unwilling to resolve. You will probably agree that we need effective law enforcement authorities, that we need criminals who will not be associated with criminals and will not be part of organised crime, that we need a general prosecutor who does not represent political processes, but who will pursue real crime and real corruption, and that will be effective. Instead of rekindling false hopes through the pre-election establishment of various ethical commissions, we believe that it would be better to ensure that law enforcement and prosecution authorities carry out their basic task. And if anyone can't do this job and doesn't want to do it, it's our assessment that the person who proposes it to this place is responsible. Mr President, if you are not aware of this problem enough, then it is probably a questionable fitness to carry out this function. However, if you are aware and do not act properly, effectively and quickly, you are taking all the blame for the fact that Slovenia is becoming a less and less legal country. I therefore ask you: Are you sure that the measures just announced or the fine-tuning state prosecutor are sufficient to carry out the role of Attorney General effectively?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u30	Mr. President, would you like to add something to your answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u31	Mr Cukjat, you have undoubtedly opened some of the issues that are important and need to be addressed, and the government is aware of this and is also trying to take appropriate action within its remit. We have recently proposed some things in this systemic work, and the National Assembly will shortly address the so-called law, the anti-corruption law that has been prepared by the Anti-Corruption Office, which introduces some important elements to ensure greater efficiency, greater transparency in the functioning of all those in the public sector. At the same time, the government has also adopted a draft, elements of the anti-corruption strategy, which will also be addressed by the National Assembly, and in this draft, there are a number of areas in which you have discussed and ways and also instruments to increase the effectiveness of the entire judiciary, the judiciary, the prosecution and the police. And in this part, I think we have some of the quality proposals that you will be able to make with your proposals, with your conclusions, and in the part where they are appropriate and where there will be a common assessment of how to improve the strategy, we will also take your proposals into account. There is absolutely no reason, I hope that, as far as this is concerned, at least as regards the functioning of the rule of law, we have common objectives. However, as regards the identification of specific responsibilities, specific persons and the assessment of efficiency and inefficiency, it is my duty to take into account the opinions and views of the relevant institutions. In this case, of course, I am obliged, too, to take into account the opinion and position of the Ministry of Justice, and I will also continue to trust it in this context, and in so far as the different proposals and different assessments given by the competent ministries and institutions, including the National Assembly, which will not last consider the report of the Attorney General, we will then, of course, examine these statements, these findings, carefully and, of course, react accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The third question will be asked by my colleague Diaca. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u33	Yes, thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The priority foreign policy objectives of the Republic of Slovenia are achieved by inviting them to the European Union and NATO. With these words, we can narrow down the Government's findings when invited to the international organisation mentioned above. The main arguments for Slovenia's accession to the European Union were certainly those who provided the Slovenian people with the opportunity to achieve greater prosperity and progress, both economic and social. In the case of the arguments for Slovenia's entry into the union, you placed the security of Slovenian citizens first and the fact that the first Slovenian foreign policy goal was to enter NATO. There has been a lot of effort and, above all, budgetary money, and it will also be intended to pay for NATO membership. However, in the fact that the birth rate in Slovenia is plummeting, we are finding that the security that NATO is supposed to provide will no longer be needed by any Slovenian, because we will simply be gone. The government's attitude to the problem of fertility decline should be alarming, so much more so in the fact that birth rates in Slovenia are among the lowest in Europe. Anyone who seriously thinks about the future of Slovenia, not only as a country, but also about the future of the Slovenian nation, must worry about such low fertility. In Slovenia, too few children are born to maintain at least the same number of inhabitants. The birth rate in Slovenia has been declining for the past 100 years. Today, the number of children per woman is barely 1.24. In the European Union, with which we compare many times, this is the number of 1.6 children per woman, which means that in Slovenia women are less than 22 percent born. Slovenians have had a birth drop from almost 30,000 in 1980 to 17 thousand in 2001. This is only a good half or 58 percent relative to 1980. This means that in 2100 there will be only half a million Slovenes or even fewer. In this light, various international memberships and all smart-sounding long-term strategies become completely meaningless, for soon there will be no more people to be targeted. Birth and demographic policy are at a high priority in most European nations, including those far greater than ours. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia we simply do not understand why the government of the doubting nation does not face this problem much more intensely and specifically. However, all our strategies, technological, economic, cultural, educational, national symbols are based on people, and these are getting smaller. I would therefore like to ask: Does the Government realize that it is high time that instead of external policy issues, it is time to take seriously the internal political ones, in which one of the priorities is certainly the issue of fertility decline? What kind of solutions is he preparing in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you for the question. You have, of course, raised a very topical question, not the last question that has been discussed very much in recent years, not only within the government, but also in the National Assembly. All Members are well aware of how many such discussions have been held so far, and many will also remember what the National Assembly has adopted in this regard in recent years, and this is the subject of data. Birth in Slovenia does not drop steeply. It is true that it is significantly lower than it has been in the past, and it is true that fertility has stabilized or stagnant in recent years. Data show that in 98 17,868 live births were born in 99 17,533. And that in 2001 it fell to 17,477 and rose again in 2002 to 17,521. So in recent years we have actually stopped the decline in fertility in Slovenia. Undoubtedly, however, this is significantly lower than it has been in recent years, and it is true that what you said was Slovenia among those countries with lower birth rates. In this regard, of course, we have tried many things in the past, in particular those things that relate to the property situation or income of families. You are well aware that in recent years we have corrected the law on parental protection and family benefits, that we have reintroduced a father's leave, a large family allowance, a partial compensation for lost earnings, and you probably know that Slovenia is among those countries in Europe that have the longest maternity leave. Compared with some Scandinavian countries with better fertility outcomes, it is interesting to find that in Slovenia, for example, we have maternity leave and leave for the care of the child 365 days and in Denmark only three months. The same is true in all other countries. As far as these rights are concerned, we have done relatively much in recent years. In the area of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, you will also remember that we have introduced some reductions in the age limit in retirement. For one child 8 months, for two children 20 months, for three 36 months and so on. In short, we have taken some important measures in Slovenia on this segment. We have established a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, which deals especially with those children who have problems, or mothers and children who have problems with maintenance. We have taken these problems into account, in particular the issue of young families, also in changing and supplementing the Employment Act, where we introduced specific subsidies for young families and tried to facilitate the employment of young people. Last but not least, this is shown in the budget. If you look at the proportion of funds or funds for family benefits and parental benefits in the budget from 1999 to 2003, the last figure is from the balance sheet, we have raised the funds from 61 billion to 104 billion. So it is very difficult to say that we have done nothing in this area. Much has been done and I must admit, of course, that much of this has been done in the National Assembly, on the basis of the initiatives of individual parliamentary groups and individual Members. Analysis and birth studies show that this does not depend solely on the material situation, even it is noted that those parts of the population that have higher wages and more regulated property conditions do not necessarily have a higher number of children or vice versa, and that there is not actually a very close link. We are aware and it is clear that the country here must assume its share of responsibility and help young families, but only with this and only in this way can it not be possible to raise fertility. Of course, it is also a number of other non-economic aspects that are linked, and these are the results of research done in the past years within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. That is, it is a parental relationship, it is a relationship that is of some value in society, and it defines how both parents, mothers and fathers share their role in raising children. The linkage of the so-called "intbreakable" career chain is very important. We find that the mother’s average age rises at first birth and is 26.7 years old. In short, in addition to what needs to be done in the field of material existence, much needs to be done also in the area of promotion, a different way of sharing, the responsibility of life and, of course, values. In this context, it is trying to move forward within the framework of the national family programme under preparation within the Ministry of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fourthly, your final question today will be asked by Comrade Kebrich. Do you have a follow-up question? I'm sorry, mate Diaci. First of all, you're a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. I admit that a lot of things have been done, but the data and figures that you've been mentioning also indicate that this negative trend is likely to not change quickly; I agree with that, both. However, you also mentioned the national family programme, which the government has been promising for some time now, and this would also raise my supplementary question: What about this program in which it is in its stage and what it will contain?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u39	However, I suggest that the competent minister responds later. It is ensured, and these are data from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to prepare this programme by the end of 2003. However, it contains, of course, these measures which relate to the material situation and those which relate to the position and role of, in particular, the mother and the family, as well as the child in society.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u40	If I understand correctly, Dr. Dimovski, the Prime Minister has authorized you to answer his question. Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly answer this question. This program is being prepared. In line with the government programme, it will be ready by the end of 2003. However, very broad professional discussions have already taken place and a number of analyses have been prepared, which can also, of course, be presented if you wish. We are talking about two national programmes, a national programme for children and a national programme for the family. The first will focus on the child's benefits, and the second will ask how, in fact, all that the Prime Minister has said should be linked to a coordinated whole, it is said, from the economic, social and other conditions that can provide for some targeted consideration of these issues. In this sense, the measures already taken by individual laws are somehow focused on what, of course, the national programme will bring round in this respect.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u42	Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, my friend Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you for your word. In fact, we have found that this is a very complex issue, so I propose that we hold a discussion on this subject on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u44	Good. My colleague Diaca, who asked the Prime Minister a question, may request and has also just done so to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question. This will be decided by the National Assembly, which will be decided tomorrow in that part of our agenda, which will address tomorrow's decisions on matters; before that, we will decide on your proposal, Comrade Diaca. Now we're going to move on. It is now up to Comrade Kebric, for the last, fourth question to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u45	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Dear Prime Minister, I am firmly convinced that you know what rewards the members of the boards of successful companies share because the media report extensively on this. I've only read some of this from where I'm collecting data. I take it from them that individuals receive not only the million prizes but the rewards that go into the tens of millions. In companies, this is a total of millions, and in the country, the sums for the awards of members of the boards are up to billions. In my view, I have learned from the competent institutions that these awards are taxed, but they do not pay contributions. In the second paragraph, I quote, Article 126 on labour relations, the law adopted the National Assembly last year, and it entered into force on 1 January this year, writes, allow me to quote it: 126 Article - "The salary consists of basic salary, part of salary for performance and allowances. An integral part of the salary shall also be payment for business performance, provided that only this is agreed by a collective agreement or a contract of employment." End of quote. It is clear from this that successful work should not be specifically rewarded with the prize, but [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Only part of the salary can be paid. [[...]] Unfortunately, payment of the prize allows part of the second sentence, the quoted provision, which states that "successful work is an integral part of the salary only if it is agreed by collective agreement or contract of employment". This allows success to be rewarded with prizes, and that is the problem. To avoid paying the contributions of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Thus, these institutions are disadvantaged and the state is damaged, as it must therefore pay more in the PPE than if they were of this kind of profit, which is undoubtedly also the contribution paid. I am not against an additional award of performance, but all the benefits resulting from the work must be treated as wages as the first sentence of the second paragraph of the quoted article. I ask you, Mr President: Will you take action in the government by reclassifying the prizes into wages or making contributions from them?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you for asking. So, first of all, I'd like to comment on what you asked. As far as rewards, wages and the like are concerned, you probably know that within the government we have taken a decision to carry out and are also preparing an analysis of wage policies and wage differences in Slovenia. We have recently considered the first draft of this analysis and have also come to some conclusions which will also be made publicly available. The essence of these findings is that wage differences, when viewed by deciles and larger population groups, do not increase substantially and do not increase substantially in Slovenia and are also comparable to comparable countries. However, the fact that a relatively narrow group within the highest income class receives very high wages and rewards. And this is certainly part of the problem of our pay-out structure. Of course, another problem is how to approach it and how to avoid doing more harm than benefits. As far as this particular question is concerned, it is exactly as you said. The Company Act in Article 253 defines how they are counted and how they are paid. And we have further checked and DURS has assured us that these awards, which are paid to the administrations, are subject to such a tax, i.e. income as well as contributions and must be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u48	Do you have a further question, Comrade Kebrich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you for your word. In addition, my question, Mr President, is this. In the media, we often track cases where the management of individual companies takes over businesses. The most famous last case is the internal takeover by the BTC management. For internal acquisitions, the company management often uses part of the profits it receives from the business performance. I want to know: Are contributions paid in addition to the tax, as profit is the result of a successful job for those employees who have created this income with living? I am not talking about the share of profits belonging to capital owners, that there will be no misunderstanding or that my proposal will not be misunderstood that this is an attack on capital shares or shareholders. I'm asking you: Is the government thinking about arranging this in a way that is presented in my previous parliamentary question on how to regulate the awards of the members of the board, that is to say that this is being treated as if the contributions paid out of this would also be paid? This issue will be useful both for both institutions and for the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u50	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you so much for asking. So, as long as this is the case for profits or special prizes, a contribution must be paid. However, the question is whether such payments always occur in such a case and there may be another problem. The problem may be that in certain cases it may be possible to obtain either financial assistance from a parent undertaking or from other forms that may benefit an individual or individual group. With regard to the subject, the changes to the takeover law, which regulate precisely this area, are a specific chapter governing the takeover by the administration, which sets out the procedures by which this is to be prevented, by which, and through which it would also be prevented from members of the administration who are also owners in order to vote in favour of such acquisitions requiring additional procedures as regards the valuation of shares and also protection. In particular, solutions, protection of small shareholders, small ones with individual shares or fewer shares that are less informed are intended. In short, this law has been being prepared by the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and in cooperation with the Securities Market Agency for some time. I think that harmonisation is now so far away that next week we can adopt this law into the government and send it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. These were the answers of the Prime Minister to four questions or five questions from members of the opposition and coalition member, colleague Kebric. With this, the Prime Minister has answered all the questions. Ministers and ministers will now answer questions. The first one is a colleague of the Possons. It will ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! I am asking Dr Tei Petrin, Minister of Economy, the following question regarding Mura. I am interested in the fate of the workers who performed their work at Mura before the rehabilitation in Lendava and Petrovci. And today you're the only one working on Murski Sobota. They're still working. Will you be able to return to work in Lendava and Petrovce after successful rehabilitation? Because since the relocation of establishments from these demographically endangered places, where unemployment is already so large, about 20% in Lendava, this fact has an additional impact on the difficult situation. Lendava is so poor and 130 jobs are also very important for her. That's why we want them back, and we expect the Mure to return to Lendava. But I'm asking Mr Kopach the next question. I think it is right for someone to tell farmers publicly how the state will remedy the effects of drought, so I ask the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Copač: What will they do to ensure that, as soon as possible and as efficiently as possible, the transparent and justly saved effects of the drought will be achieved, so that 2001 will not be repeated when farmers were cheated on Gorički? I want to know: Will this be regulated by intervention or system law, and when? In doing so, I would like to remind you of a well-known river, which quickly does, twice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u54	Mrs. Possons, just a moment. Minister Tee Petrin is not available for excuses, I said that at the beginning. Do you insist that you receive an answer to your question orally or can the Minister prepare a written answer in the next 30 days?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u55	A written reply would be preferable in practice in order to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u56	Okay. Minister Digger, now you have a chance to answer the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The honourable Member, as you probably know, has proposed a law to remedy the consequences of natural disasters by the end of June in the parliamentary procedure. Today, however, it has proposed to Parliament that this law be treated in an urgent manner and, as I have been informed, that if you, of course, are Members and Members of Parliament, you should consider this law after the conclusion of this meeting of the National Assembly, that is, in the coming week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u58	Only if I can make it up to you. The answer is because it concerns a question that is currently being asked, let me say that the proposal was tabled today by the government and that tomorrow the college will decide when we will deal with it at 9 a.m. and 30 minutes. It is expected that Wednesday afternoon, after the committee will probably take a lot of time to draw up a decision-making position at the request of the President of the committee responsible on Wednesday morning. So now you have some idea of when the National Assembly will decide on this law. My friend Rupar will now ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr President, at first I expected an answer to the question raised by me at the previous meeting of the Minister for Culture, and I think it is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u60	She apologized today. As far as I know, he's abroad on duty.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u61	That's why we're moving this to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u62	Do you insist on answering your questions orally?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u63	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u64	You also have the opportunity to reply in writing, but you insist that you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u65	I insist on an oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u66	Okay. You have this business opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u67	Now, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask Mr President, the Minister for Transport and Communications.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u69	Mr. Secretary! Slovenia is building highways, and if luck strikes, we will have a difficult road cross across Slovenia at the end of this decade. What I think is compared to the construction of roads in Europe, but also now in Croatia, is actually catastrophically slow, but it is not my intention to draw attention to this. I would like to point out that, at the same time as the construction of highways, they grow like mushrooms in the rain of toll stations. These toll stations are on Slovenian highways, with those that are being built, and with those that exist, on average on every 37 km built road. With this, Slovenia also has the shortest distance between individual toll stations on the old continent, in addition to the marking of the slowest highway builder in Europe. Of course, foreigners find this very difficult to understand because, for example, from Karavank, where they pay the toll for the first time, and at least they stop at sea three times, they literally rush into these toll stations, not to mention the inconvenientness of Slovenian highway users. Well, when they get to this highway and pay the toll, they find that for this toll, they pay the most expensive toll in Europe. The second most expensive country is Italy. But on a built-up mile of road Italy is 40 percent cheaper than Slovenia. Now, of course, I want to know - but these data are accurate because they are summarized from the Internet - the following. When Slovenia or the ministry will finally have mercy, if not already on Slovenians, on foreigners to pay the toll as in Switzerland, once and for all for use. Or with vinjets like in Austria? When is that supposed to happen, if you do. Does anyone in this government and in this country even consider shutting down these toll stations or at least increasing the distance to a normal distance? Let's say when you put it in the fifth gear, you don't have to stop immediately. And last of all, I wonder when someone will feel sorry for a Slovenian citizen and lower his toll when using the highway. This is very significant in the use of local roads, by-roads, where traffic increases more than on highways. I wonder if anyone's even thinking about lowering that toll. I would like to say that we want the users of motorways to be at least roughly equal to the rights and obligations of users of motorways in Europe. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. Minister of Transport, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, according to the evidence, none of your three claims are valid. Nor is it that we are the slowest to build highways, that we have the only most toll stations, and yet another claim you have cited. I must say that at the very beginning of the construction of the highway programme it was determined that Slovenian motorways were built as toll roads, first of all, as we probably all remember well, in a closed highway system. And then, I think in 1995, the system was changed by a decision of the then National Assembly and this toll system, I have to say, has, unfortunately, been partially opened. There's a lot of trouble coming out of here. The fact is that the toll system must comply primarily with three principles: as far as possible fairness, which means that tolls should normally be paid by all users in all motorways, as far as possible in accordance with the actual distance transported along the motorway; the second principle is the principle of economy, which means that the method of payment of tolls in the given circumstances is the most economically justified; and the third, as far as possible, that the inflows from toll in the given circumstances are the highest. The answer to the question whether the government or the ministry is considering changing the toll system is yes. The government has taken quite a few conclusions on the toll system. On the basis of the task already under way, we have the task of using, in the context of possible scenarios for electronic tolling in the free movement of transport in Slovenia and to present the relevant analyses for the introduction of possible systems already started in 2004, and to introduce this system after appropriate testing by 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u72	That was the answer. Do you want to ask an additional question? Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u73	First of all, I have to say that the data is accurate. If you drive from Karavank, where you pay for the first time highway - a new toll station you will work in Podtakor - and next is Torovo pri Ljubljana. It is said that between Karavank and Ljubljana there are 84 kilometers and three tolls. So don't make me a stranger. The price on a liquid kilometer is 40% higher than in Italy. So that's a very good point. The additional question is also linked to the toll. See, ABC card users we pay the toll in advance. When the money runs out, you come to the detection station and it says "no credit". Whose credit is not there now? The user credits the country for the use of the highway, pays in advance and the traffic light informs the user that he no longer has credit. Whose credit? Excuse me, I've got a German behind me, my friend, who read "no credit," or let it be Italian, "non credit," let it be Croat, "no credit." Whose credit is it if I pay the toll in advance? I'd like to see if anyone's thinking. Yeah, sorry, that's right. I'm lending the country and she's warning me that I don't have a loan. They're laughing at me behind my back. I've already proposed many times, turn this "no credit" into another formulation, I don't know, "no advance" or "no advance" or something that I won't be offended by using this ABC card. Because I'm lending the country, not the state to me. Maybe just that as an initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u75	This inscription means that there is no "good estate". We will also consider what the most accurate inscription would be. In fact, there's no "good estate" on the card. But I'd use it back for the first time you mentioned guilt in Austria. That's what happens all the time. Austria goes from 1.1.2004, that is, six months later, to an electronic toll collection system for all categories of cars, except for passenger cars once more. Germany is going to the toll collection system, which it does not have so far, from the 1.9th year of this year for trucks. We, as a future member of the EU, cannot go to the blame system for this reason, because this system would be even more unjust in Slovenia and because this system would also make the toll flow significantly smaller.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the next two questions will go to your address. It's a question of my friend Mamić. Comrade Mamić, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I welcome all present. Let's still stay on the freeway. My question is: How many kilometres of highways in Slovenia were built from 1994 to the end of 2002 and for how much money? I am interested in this because every year we monitor the budget of 60, 70 billion and open 15 and 16 kilometers of highway. So it's said that this logic would make about 4 billion kilometers. I asked the committee Secretary Vidic, and he said it was $2 billion. That's not on me right now. If we compare. For the construction of roads in Croatia, it is written in the media to cost a kilometre a billion SIT if converted into tolars. Racan may be hiding something, but it's his business, but it's official. I know that Primorje, my former company, worked 10 kilometers of highway at Zadar, which is not an easy terrain, for 6 and a half billion tolars. But if we look at our highway program, that we're still 249 kilometers away, maybe it's just started, some of the groundwork is done, I'm interested in the following. When is this program going to be over? The second question is in the toll stations referred to by Mr Rupar. Why are so many people employed at toll stations, since the toll ticket can be issued automatically? Does this mean that the new toll stations that will be built will also employ so many more people? If we're going to get into some kind of universal modern system, then we're going to destroy these toll stations. I don't know. This economy doesn't make sense. I'll ask the Minister if he answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Minister of Transport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you for the question, Mr. Mamić. You ask for a lot of information or information about the highway sections, their values, and so on. I think the answer to this question could be broader. With just a few numbers, of course, it can't be given in full. I propose that I also say some of these numbers to give you a comprehensive answer, which I also have prepared. But for a short answer, I would just say that the physical realization of the construction of the highway, which is envisaged under the national programme, is about 554 kilometers. This was envisaged for construction from 1994 to 2002 for 385 kilometres. During this period, 240.9 miles [240.9 km] and 241 km] were built. The reasons are, of course, well known and will be stated in the new national programme balance, which is currently in interdepartmental coordination and which I am confident will be addressed by the government this month and then by the national assembly immediately after that in the early autumn. The financial realisation of the construction of motorways, planned under the national programme, was $4.1 billion, which was $3.25 billion for 1994 to 2002, and was $2.23 billion for that period. If we shorten these data by stating the price per kilometer, it is accurate that for sections that were built by 1994, the price was approximately $7 million per kilometer and for sections that were built after 1994 until 31.12.2002 and 7.43 million dollars. However, the second question I think is similar to what Mr Rupar had already asked, so I think because it is also answered in writing, I do not think it is necessary to mention it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you very much. My colleague Mamić is satisfied with the Minister of Transport's replies. My colleague Bevk will ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. A well-respected choir. The Ministry of Agriculture is also responsible for freshwater fishing. The law governing this area was adopted in 1976 and no longer follows developments, nor the problems facing Slovenian freshwater fishing today. Minister of Agriculture, Master Franco Booth, I ask: What concept of the new law do you advocate and when will the government send the law on freshwater fishing into parliamentary procedure? During the last extremely hot and dry period, we have also witnessed numerous fish seas in Slovenian rivers. In the media, the sea of fish in Ljubljana and Cerknica, the Idrijca River, was particularly reflected. Again, it has proved to be a poor provision for water control, for repairing damage, and for punishing and detecting those responsible. In particular, there is a clear confusion in the area of jurisdiction. The responsibility and competence of the sea fish as a hot bone are given by the inspection services of the three ministries: agricultural, environmental and defence. The latter includes an inspectorate to protect against natural and other disasters. So, unfortunately, it often happens that the culprits for the seas are not even exposed, let alone punished. A special chapter is a sub-law providing for compensation for damage to fish. It's an interesting price list. The poacher, for example, who confiscates three pieces of the Sostic trout, is multiplied by a factor of 25. However, whoever causes an ecological disaster and kills 30 tonnes of fish and destroys the entire living in the river, the market price of the trout will be multiplied by only a figure of 4.4. I therefore ask the relevant ministers the following. When will you propose to the government the adoption of a sub-legislative regulation that will simplify and regulate clear powers to act on the seas of fish and aquatic life? However, I am asking or giving him an initiative to study the results of a ten-year project on the repopulation of the Soča trout, which does not produce satisfactory results and can also be controversial in terms of preserving other indigenous trout species in the Soča basin. Thank you so much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Master Booth, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your questions. The law on freshwater fishing is in preparation. By the end of September, the Government is expected to adopt it on our proposal and to mediate it to the National Assembly. We would also have a public debate in September. I myself advocate that the law takes into account the good experience of recent years, but, at the same time, it allows fishing rights to be granted on the basis of concessions from now on also to monitor the implementation of all that has been given by this concession. The State must have the opportunity to take that right away from someone who is miserably or carelessly in charge of the public good. In this way, we will also be able to regulate the open issues of some fishing families that have been going on for years and years. In view of the different powers of the various inspectorates, I agree with your conclusion that it is necessary to unify them as soon as possible, and to that end I am also giving an initiative to the other two ministries to unify the matter in the sense that the sub-legislative act will clearly regulate how and how to act in the event of an act such as that of the Ljubljana River. I believe that the system that will allow the award, as well as the taking of concessions, will be able to contribute to this.It is indeed true that this dimension is broader and that cooperation between different ministries will have to be good or excellent. Otherwise it will be impossible to regulate things that are multilayered. As far as the repopulation of the Soviet trout is concerned, we have been working intensively on this project since 1996, when a repopulation programme was prepared for all the fishing families of the Adriatic basin. A special circle on the prohibition of fishing in these waters has also been issued with the current trout [[For he has successfully crossed himself with the falcon, and the Christians are fruitful.]] . On the other hand, for the 2000-2005 fishing season, a medium-term plan was drawn up, part of which is also guidance on the conservation of the Societal trout. According to our assessment, the more intense concern in this area is already reflected by a slightly better state of the number of the Soviet trout. The problem is also partly related to the issue of fish-eating birds, especially cormorant birds. This is a particular problem across the European area. In 2000, the Government removed cormorant from the list of endangered species by amending the Regulation on protected species, similar to that of almost all European Union countries. On the basis of the signed Bonn Convention and recommended by the so-called Copenhagen Programme, which has also been ratified by Slovenia, unfortunately in Slovenia we do not receive a specific understanding of the bird protection company, which has simply not yet been able to find a broader view, which would also cover the problem of the disappearance of certain indigenous fish species, such as the so-called trout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u84	Complementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. This is a problem of freshwater fishing. My focus has been on the sea of fish in recent times, especially in Ljubljana and the river Cerknica. I would like the Ministry of Agriculture to draw up a special report on how these two seas have been monitored and acted. I'd like to tell you about the Cerknica case. The assassination took place on June 23rd, and the competent inspector arrived on the ground on June 30th, saying, a week later, despite the police station in Idrija having conducted a field inspection on the same day of the evening. While the Agriculture Inspector and the Natural Disaster Protection Inspector were not even considered competent in this area. In fact, these ministries share this problem with each other and no one is actually taking action, and the damage is extremely difficult to claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u86	Minister, would you like to add something in your reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u87	I can only add that things need to be unified. It is undeniable, however, that this needs to be done in cooperation with at least two other ministries, which currently have an even greater weight on the measures you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Barovic will raise the question of the Member of the Minister of Health, Dr Kebru. Please, my friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The supremacy is economically and socially in crisis, which can also be confirmed here by the present ministers from different departments. In addition, in the past ten years, Zasavje has lost regional factors in internal affairs, the judiciary, education. For many years, the agony around the Regional General Hospital Trbovlje has been going on, whether it will remain or be eliminated, what will happen to it. They're supposed to be shutting down the pediatric department. The relationship to surgery renovation does not exactly reflect the desire and will that this section of the abdominal regional hospital be updated. And now what I will ask you, Mr Keber, and I thank you in advance for the very precise answers, because the questions are also very clear. Is it true that the existence of the gynaecological-natal department of the General Hospital Trbovlje is at risk? If so, is it about shutting down or closing down the entire department, or is it part of this section? If this is true, is it a gradual transformation of the regional general hospital of Trbovlje into a nursing hospital for which doctors also use the term of the nursery and then for the complete termination in general? Let me finish. It's not just a suture hospital. Such hospitals are more and likely their fate will be the same as that of a stem-save hospital. So what will be the fate, in sayings, I have heard this expression, "smaller" hospitals, I hope we will learn from your answer, Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr Member for your question. Mr. President! The question is obviously interesting for some Members, and Mr Matjaž Švagan has also raised a very similar question to which he will receive a written answer. I hope that today, too, from my oral response, all Members will hear our broader thinking. The fate or future of Slovenian hospitals is indeed changing. It's not one hospital, it's after all for hospitals from the clinical center to the last hospital. Their fate, their content changes. They'll have to become more effective. Their content is moving from the hospital work towards the regional health centre. Patients, only those who really need a hospital, will be treated at the hospital. New working methods, new technologies allow more and more patients to be treated in an ambulance and also at home. More than that, the White Paper will show in the reform, which will be received in a short time by honourable Members and which will be discussed. With regard to the trebwell hospital and neither in Slovenia are we planning, nor do we have the possibility of closing hospitals in our hands. Fate, their own, will take the hospitals into their own hands. We plan regulation, we plan transparent financing, we plan to make every product of work, and this is a patient with his problem paid the same throughout the country. Hospitals themselves will have to consider whether their amount of work, the interest of their own fellow countrymen in their hospital, when they seek help, is enough to keep their wards. In the general plans of the Ministry of Health there are even reverse trends. You know that an investment plan has been adopted in this hospital, worth billions and 300 million. It is true that most of this sum is in 2005 and 2006, but for the plans already this year and for the start of works next year. This means that this is also additional evidence that the state does not intend to abolish or sell expensive investments and expensive infrastructures, but, of course, calls for a new policy to be considered by hospital managers on new programmes and new content of work to attract their natives. So it is not a political gesture - we want to keep our hospital and when we keep it and when we get them a subsidy, then we go to Ljubljana for treatment - but in fact this hospital has to prove to its people that it is necessary. And I'm sure according to the results we know about the Trbovlje hospital, it won't be hard for her to prove it. We have no answers that it is, as for some other departments, a problem in this sense. Which is why I'm kind of surprised by your question. The concrete answer is: there is no reason for the maternity-gynocology department, which now has about 400 births per year, which means that it is not the smallest in the country, just in the Trbovlje hospital. It is true, however, that such departments in the country are more likely to be under some external pressure to have smaller children’s departments. Today we have heard the question, which was related to something else, to another point, in this country we have significantly fewer births and significantly fewer children and the same capacity of all departments. We will have to do something in this area, but the main stimulus will be to do so, the satisfaction of the citizens to be treated in this hospital and the economic viability. It is true, however, that I do not believe that the State will be able to subsidise any departments that are so small that they do not withstand the economic pressure of survival when they open up. In this context, hospital administrations will have to consider whether they would not specialize in certain activities and in the future, there will be more to focus on some activities where, despite the smallness of the environment in the country, you can provide services, operations, procedures. Of course, some hospitals are successfully headed in this direction. There is no reason, then, for me to try to create a fear of the future of the abdominal hospital, or its development, into a nursing home. This concept is even strongly rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister of Health. My friend Barovic would like to ask a further question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u93	It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Secretary, as you said. But you said you were surprised that I asked such a question. I can assure you personally that I didn't make it up. I was asked this question by professional workers at the stem hospital. And the Indians got it from your ministry. But let me take this opportunity and ask you one more question. When I read in connection with this professional evaluation, medical professional evaluation, I was very careful in two claims and please confirm or deny them. One of the professional claims is that the abolition of hospitals or departments means the distribution of people, patients. And another claim that any closures or terminations result in a decrease in the number of professional activities and in particular a decrease in the quality of activities. I will be happy if you answer me whether these statements of the profession are correct or if your assessment as minister is different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u94	Mr. Minister of Health, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are opening the question of the so-called geographical accessibility of the citizen to the health system, and I could say that the smallness of Slovenia, of course, justifies that we are only talking about basic health care. This protection must be close to the citizen: general doctor, family doctor, child doctor. For a hospital with much more demanding infrastructure and much more demanding knowledge to be managed by its employees in order to generate the real assistance of citizens at a secondary level, it is not primarily important how far away it is. There are countries, and these are developed countries, such as Finland, where the first hospital is 500 kilometers away. I know that looking at the map explains why. But the general doctor is 100 kilometers away, and they know it's fate. There is no hospital on the island in the middle of the Adriatic. Some of this must be accepted by the citizens who live in this way. Therefore, the future that allows us to say, treatment at home, good road connections, is not inclined to locate hospitals in the future, if I say, in every city. We're lucky, we're washing, the truth to be told, too many hospitals right now. But not so much as to think that this is such a big problem that we now have to do something about it in terms of closure. We are fortunate that this infrastructure, however, has not been so exaggerated that we cannot answer the questions about it in the future. So the answer, for example, to have a hospital in a place does not mean that those citizens are better served than others. The task of the State and its regulation, to respond again, is to ensure that all citizens are equally accessible, equally and fairly accessible to those services that are best and all the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u96	Minister, you'll get another question. Your grandson's going to stop him for you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I must say, I was surprised when I learned from the media that 1.7. was a pilot rescue project, offering medical assistance with helicopters fell into the water for a banal reason. Why banal? Because this case has been trying to solve itself for almost ten years. At first there were no suitable helicopters, then there was no money. Now that we have the appropriate helicopters, both in the military, police and private sector, when the money was provided, almost a hundred million for this year, provided by the health care agency for training 20 medical teams, the inspector has issued a decision that the helicopter landing area at the clinical centre is not appropriate. That's why I'm saying it's a banal reason, given all this activity. The public therefore rightly wonders whether this project will ever come to life. In view of the fact that the accident is the key to the first twenty minutes of the accident and experience from abroad, I am also interested in the following: When is this project gonna run if it ever does? Why is it not also possible for the private sector to apply equally to such matters and to make a call if there is already work elsewhere? The army itself finds that military aviation is too expensive to be misused. On the other hand, you are also preparing a health reform, and we hear other problems when there is no money, in health care is the biggest problem when there is no money, and now money and resources are provided, teams are ready. There are other transport matters, but the system is not working. So, of course, I'm interested in who's not qualified right now. Is he not qualified to be a potential private and public sector? Are not those who are supposed to be responsible for carrying out this project qualified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of grandkids. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. If I start at the beginning, yeah, now it's money. All we need to know is that this money is our same money. This is the health care money that had to be excluded from compulsory insurance. It's not extra money. It's the same money that citizens collect. It is clear, therefore, that there is also a new right, and this is helicopter transport, in a sense or the extension of the right that has been sporadic so far, it is necessary to drive in the framework of a pilot project, because it is not so clear to what extent citizens will need it. Not that I wouldn't, but to what extent they'll need it. With the new road cross and the reach of the helicopter and the time distances, it becomes clear that if the helicopter flies from Brnik to rescue someone in Prekmurje, the transport from that town in Prekmurje to the nearby hospital will, of course, be significantly faster. However, there are, of course, areas, valleys, hard-to-access places and some other reasons which justify a certain number of so-called primary or secondary transports. But because of all these facts and the high complexity and the required security to be provided during the flight, she has instructed us to launch this project pilotly in the public system and in this project successfully, although not without obstacles, four ministries are involved: in addition to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence, Home Affairs and Transport. I would like to say that the story that was interrupted in one or two weeks is, of course, banal. It's a story about whether in network planning, how to solve things and at the same time lead to the beginning, suddenly something creaks up and in the last minute, some inspector discovers something else that needs to be moved. I can only say that I have the last assurance that this project will start the second week and that from here on out, of course, with all the excuses, if we have any last-minute setbacks, I am sure that this time it will not be so that next week this project will start, it has its initial sums and initial targets. In about half a year, and at the latest in one year, we will also inform the public of the results of this project and also of the scope of investing in this system in the future. Therefore, when this project is completed, it will also be possible to provide a relevant answer whether it is necessary to attract the private sector or whether the number, the quantity of needs, is sufficient to be carried out within the systems, but which are, in fact, also in part, trained to help citizens if we are talking about having the readiness of the military and the police to engage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u100	Complementary question, colleague of the grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you. I'll come back to you because I already asked you this question at the beginning of the year where you answered me that the pilot project was due to take place in mid-April. That's why I said it wasn't a matter of weeks. It's been a couple of months. Therefore, there is a legitimate fear that the matter will linger for a long time. I hope that the basis of this pilot project will not protect the monopoly of a sector, because, at the end of this phase, there is an additional reform that you are preparing for yourself in the field of health, where the main "cost benefit" analysis is needed, so to speak, an analysis of the benefits and costs. The analysis will be essential to say that, as you mentioned, depending on the frequency, I think the problem is very simple: only a network of these stations should be expanded and given as a condition when the concession is tendered. My question is essentially based on an accident that occurred at the end of last year or at the beginning of this year, when the helicopter from Brnik was unable to fly when you mentioned Brnik, which is the starting point of our national helicopters, due to fog. While, let's say, at other airports, that fog wasn't there. And, of course, there is this fundamental difference. The private sector is also significantly cheaper when transport is carried out by helicopters on certain other matters under the same conditions. Therefore, I believe that it is essential in these matters that such additional services or faster services do not increase the cost of healthcare for citizens as well. However, since the color of the helicopter is not important, it is of course the same quality. I therefore hope that when this pilot project succeeds, a serious call will also be made, of course on the basis of a serious cost-benefit analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you. Anything else you'd like to add, Mr. Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] The next question will be raised by my colleague Celigoj, two ministers, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Madam Minister, Madam Ministers! My question is indeed addressed to the Minister of Transport and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. For the transport of petroleum derivatives between Postojna and Rijeka, the road through Ilirsko Bistrica has been closed for a year at the border crossing between Jelšane-Rupa and Starod-Pasjak. Tanks carrying oil derivatives, such as white oil fractions, must therefore transport through Gorski Kotor and then via Karlovac to the border crossing of the Obrežje, which makes their journey longer than 230 kilometres. Transport from Illyrian Bistrica and related companies gravitating to the raw refinery suffer enormous economic damage. This damage amounts to about 50 million dollars a month, 600 million a year, which is a lot of money for the country, not just for the company that suffers this damage. In this regard, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Rupel, has already promised to end the closure and has also discussed this with the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Piculo, and therefore the affected continue to expect an answer that would offer an appropriate solution to the problem described and, above all, for the expected closure of this prison. In 1972, traffic signs were placed on the road between Postojno and Jelshani, which further restrict the transport of petroleum products. I hear the Croatian side also requires the removal of these tables. The Foreign Minister gave me a written reply a few moments ago, and I would also like to ask Mr President for part of his reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u104	Mr. President, Minister of Transport, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Čeligoj, we also discussed this topic at the last meeting a few weeks ago with representatives or with the Croatian Transport Minister in Zagreb. The fact that such data as you mentioned were correct and that we had the possibility of transporting heavy trucks in this area on the route of Kozina-Starod, but not on the route of Postojna-Iliska Bistrica for a long time and the international border crossing now, but rather the border between the Republics of Slovenia and Croatia, that is Jelsane. The problem with this route or on this road Postojna-Iliska Bistrica-Yelšane is in irregular elements in some places. In a few places it is impossible, virtually impossible, to meet two heavy trucks. This is why an idea project is prepared for a thorough reconstruction of this road, but this value of course exceeds the financial capacity of the budget or budget plans of the Directorate for the following years. However, we have prepared measures at individual locations, in a few places where appropriate traffic lights or other measures, in particular with appropriate traffic signalling, would regulate the possibility of transport by heavy vehicles as well. However, we will probably propose, this is also a matter of agreement, but only that this ban remains in the main tourist season, given the extremely large number of passenger cars and holiday trailers, because then there is a great danger of various accidents. Thus we expect that, the programme is ready, we will arrange some bottlenecks on this route to release this traffic and with appropriate arrangements with the Republic of Croatia to do so also by the Croatians.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much. You want to ask another question? You announced two, Comrade Cheligoy. Complementary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your answer. Maybe just a short supplementary question. From Mr Rupl's reply it follows that the Croatian side claims that the restriction on traffic on the Postojna-Yelšana route applies only to Croatian trucks, not to Slovenian trucks. Is that true? That's the first I've heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u108	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u109	This is not true, of course, but the traffic signal says local traffic is allowed. This means that those who drive to Illyrian Bistrica or in another direction are not subject to a traffic ban. That is why Croatia imagines that this means only for Slovenian carriers.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u110	Do you want to ask another question now? [[No, no, ……]] Then there's a mag behind you. A visor. Comrade Visjak, you have the floor. Your question is addressed to the Minister, who is rightly not among us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u111	Dear President, thank you very much. However, at my previous meeting, I also had a question for the Minister of State, and there was no question, and then I put it to the other Minister, which was not properly assessed by the President, so today, despite the absence of the Minister here, I will ask the question of a Member of Parliament and I will also request an oral answer from her. However, the question referred to a visit to the workers of the former Trebovlje plant Pek, who visited the Minister and were very disappointed with the answers and the visits, is said, above the results of the talks in Ljubljana, with the Minister, Mrs Teo Petrin, regarding the fate of this plant and in particular the solution to their problems. Workers, this was a typical example of how the workers wanted to learn from the minister the basics, that is to say how their fate will be taken care of and how and what their claims will be to all this corrupt economy. Minister, such problems are not only in Trbovje, so I also ask this question, we also have such problems in Posav, where we have a textile industry, even in our municipality, where we also have a closed plant Beti Dobova. This is a general problem in Slovenia. And when these workers come to someone, the most competent, who can tell them how and what the answer is, which is politically and extremely underestimating. In her reply, the Minister also said that one of the reasons why they do not have a solution is to oppose the opposition in order to make more money in the region and in this particular company. That is why I am specifically asking the Minister what she meant when she said that to these workers. I think that this is extremely political and I think that the Minister must explain what cases she has in mind when she referred to the opposition as the blocking factor for investing the country, that is, through state aid to restructuring the economy. I would like to say that the opposition has always and still advocated a more effective state and regional aid scheme in terms of restructuring, that, after all, the initiative and the efforts of the opposition have been adopted in this National Assembly by the law on providing state aid to businesses in difficulty, that we have, in fact, constantly warned and warned about centralisation and the lack of regional money and that we have forever invested amendments in the budget to ensure a greater amount of money. I seriously ask the Minister what she had in mind when she said that the opposition was blocking the resolution of such problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u112	A colleague of mags. Visjak, as the question is said, you have the right to ask the oral question once again, and it is also up to you to answer it at the next meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u113	Dear President! I would take this opportunity, and I will be at the next meeting, if the Minister is here, I would like her to be a pawn, and I expect her to be an oral response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much. A visor. My colleague Zupanova has a question for the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Today, the issue of the prosecution has already been raised to the Prime Minister, and I am addressing you, Mr Justice, with a similar theme. We could tell the Ljubljana DA that we also know him through affairs regarding the heads of the offices. Not so long ago, against the then head of the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office, caught up in the theft, a criminal procedure was initiated, but it appears that the case was outdated. However, the District State Prosecutor's Office against the leader who is supposed to return the money should submit an indictment for several crimes, which the Court has not yet ruled on. The case of disputed personnel, when Mr Fischer, Head of the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office, set up his life partner without adequate education, was known and probably expired. I am sure that the lady has landed in some appropriate service, and the gentleman continues to perform the work of the District Attorney. Mr Fischer has never been criminally responsible for the abuse of the position, but the state's prosecutor's office was harmed by about 2 million tolars because of inadequate education. Recently, however, there has been an even worse scandal in the state's attorney's office. In the reorganisation, they found that the head of the office was carrying out her work with a forged diploma, and that she received an appropriate high salary. And she's been in the D.A.'s office for over 30 years. I could list some more unpleasant cases, but these cases are enough to ask a person what kind of people they ask the prosecution and how they examine their employees. What citizens should think of all of this is different than that there is corruption, dishonesty, counterfeiting in these kinds. How can such an institution employ people with questionable moral qualities? Is this also the reason why many reports against directors who have damaged social property in billions of dollars are pawned or rolled through drawers until they are obsolete? It is no wonder, therefore, that people are increasingly less trusting in the justice system and the country. Someone is responsible for this, but it is hard to believe that someone will be responsible for it. Dear Mr. Secretary! I ask you, will you take any action against those responsible in connection with the last scandal in the Higher State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u116	Please, Mr. Justice Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u117	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. There are at least two irregularities mentioned in this question. With regard to the first one relating to the District Attorney's Office, I must very clearly stress the known fact that in that case it was proceeding in a manner which I believe was appropriate. The current Head of Public Prosecutor's Office is no longer performing this function, and for this reason, it is any indication that the case has been left without action, inadequate or inadequate. The irregularities were identified in the performance of the Head of the District State Prosecutor's Office and it is therefore not appropriate to mix this with the performance of the State Prosecutor's office, in respect of which some irregularities have not been established. With regard to the last case, i.e. the irregularities that have occurred in relation to the personnel file of one of the staff members, it is necessary to say first that this irregularity has been detected when there were proceedings concerning the transfer of employees to the former higher state prosecutor's office in Ljubljana within the framework of the state's Attorney General's Office. As part of the review of the personnel documentation, it was found that one of the staff members was a forged diploma and a false entry into the workbook. On this basis - and in the case of the staff of the Attorney General's Office it is by no means possible to report negligence - a disciplinary procedure was initiated immediately as a result of a serious breach of labour obligations and a temporary removal measure was also put in place for the duration of the disciplinary procedure. At the same time, the District State Prosecutor's Office was informed of the matter in connection with the decision to initiate the criminal procedure. The disciplinary procedure is completed at the first stage and a sanction has been imposed for the infringement found and, according to my information, the matter is still under appeal. In the context of the ongoing procedures, all the circumstances of the irregularity will no doubt be established. In this regard, too, who may be additionally responsible for the possibility of such an irregularity. If this is established, we will, of course, act as in similar cases of the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana and the Prosecutor's Office in Ptuj, noting that the Higher State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana no longer exists since 1.7.years ago due to the transformation, in accordance with the amendment of the State Prosecutor's Office Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u118	Complementary question, colleague Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your answer. You got away a little bit. Given that the state's attorney's office will be gone, it seems that things will be resolved. But if you don't mind, I'm asking you a further question: Does it ever happen that, for such or other reasons, for example, a worker receives too much pay - usually it does not happen or happens due to accounting errors - it must be returned next month or simply taken away from him? I wonder: Has Mr. Fisher returned the approximately 2 million that were created by his actions in the prosecution? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u120	Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u121	I do not have reliable data on this very specific fact at this time, which is why I cannot answer this question orally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. My colleague Kavtičnik will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister and Minister, respectable council! I'm going to ask the Minister of Transport, Mr. Jacob President. At its regular session on 29.11.2002, the Law on Ski Safety was adopted, which entered into force on 3 November. 1. 2003 and enters into force 1. 12. 2003. At that time, six months is the deadline for the preparation of sub-laws, and the deadline for the implementation of this legislation or this legal obligation is 3. Seven. 2003. So today we're 9. 7. That's why I want to know: Are these acts of marriage already adopted and not adopted? The law also provides that the Minister shall draw up professional and technical regulations on the organisation of markings on ski slopes, the protection of tracks and the rest on the proposal of the national sports sector. So, on the proposal of the Ski Association of Slovenia, which has most of these technical standards already established, and these standards are in line with international rules. In order to implement these standards, the ski link also has a Commission for the type-approval of ski tracks, led by the FISE Commissioner. As I have been informed, since the beginning of June 2003, the Ski Association has sent me the written text of the rules on the type and form of signs on the ski slope, the rules on technical conditions for the operation of skis and protective equipment, and a proposal for a record of ski accidents. As far as I am aware, you have only considered the proposal of the Ski Association as a good basis for further work, and at that time you have called for a call for the research task of the Professional Foundation for the establishment of implementing standards in the field of ski safety regulation. The deadline for issuing sub-laws or regulations is already overdue, as I have already said. According to the profession, the invitation to tender is even unnecessary, so I ask you: do you think that the Ski Association of Slovenia has not prepared the relevant professional grounds, although most of these are already internationally established? At the same time, I ask you to clarify your views and argue them in accordance with the rules of the profession. Of course, I will closely monitor your further activities, in particular the products of that research task. If it turns out that the task will be substantively and professionally complementary to the basis of the Slovenian Ski Association and the internationally valid standards, I will be most grateful for improving safety for users of our ski resorts. Otherwise, I will take this action as an unjustified waste of taxpayers' money or a repetition of the already known and recorded one. For there are also many studies in the state administration, which are not carried out because of the need for new knowledge, but rather because of the need for some researchers to explore the research already done.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u124	Please, Mr. Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u125	Yes, thank you very much for the question, Mr. Kavticnik. So I will try to cut back on the issue a little bit by saying that the main task of the Ministry of Transport is to draw up a regulation on this law, the ski safety law, to draw up a regulation on the technical conditions for the operation of the ski resort and the markings on ski slopes. It is true that from the Skiing Association of Slovenia we have received the professional basis or draft of this Regulation on 12. 6. 2003 and it is true that our professional services have found exactly what you stated in your question. The reasons are, of course - or above all - in the fact that these rules, which are truly in line with the rules of the international ski link in the type-approval of the lines, are, of course, adapted to those routes which are intended for competitive routes. And in this case we cannot directly use them for all skis, especially recreational routes for all ski resorts in the Republic of Slovenia. We receive warnings from individual ski resorts, from individual ski centres, in order to enforce such rules for all ski resorts, for all tracks - so that they would actually be impossible to implement mainly or in financial conditions where most ski resorts in Slovenia are located. This is why, of course, we will draw up an appropriate regulation with this task, and we will continue to coordinate it with the Skiing Association and provide the ski centre with prior information, ensuring that there will not be a problem with the indications of the next ski season.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u126	Comrade Kavtičnik, supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your answer. So, I'm sure it would be more appropriate for your concerns to address your professional services to the Slovenian Ski Association, which has certified experts and would be easier and cheaper, I say cheaper, free of charge to do this job that you have tendered for. Doubts remain on the eligibility of the invitation to tender. Above all, what I said would be much cheaper for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u128	Please, Mr. Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u129	So, in the Ministry we have a job for this area, I think an appropriate expert who sits on the organizational committees of the biggest competitions in Slovenia. And I'm sure he knows about this business. Therefore, I am sure that we will of course prepare such a product that will be acceptable to the will of the centres and, above all, for the safe development of recreational skiing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u130	Okay, that was all in connection with the question of colleague Kavtičnik. Mr Peče will ask the Minister of Finance and the Secretary-General of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u131	Your Honors are here! At the beginning of the new mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia announced the pursuit of the objective of limited inflation. In any way, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's announcement is welcome and commendable, but according to our assessment, the Slovenian National Party's assessment is that the forecasting or pursuit of a goal without content is rather meaningless or short-term. My question is precisely to get the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National Party to answer about long-term sustainability and the credibility of the response by avoiding those so-called hyperinflations. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working in contradiction: on the one hand, it is forecasting inflation in a limited amount or percentage, and on the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least last year, prohibits a speech on existing inflation. It may be one measure, but in no way is it a measure in any democratic state. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, under your leadership, predicts or imposes new taxes or new, higher tax rates. Let me mention some: housing savings tax, purpose saving tax, bank interest tax, new motor taxes, higher excise duties, the introduction of real estate tax and similar things. Of course, things are going in the opposite direction - on the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to tackle inflation or give an impression of inflation congestion, and on the other hand, it is taking measures that will lead this country, unfortunately, to a state of hyperinflation, through real two-digit inflation. However, it should be noted that even if the rebalancing is just adopted, it is forecast that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, due to its lack of seriousness with regard to the implementation of the smaller rate of inflation, will not succeed - even on the basis of a rebalancing through which it is clear to Members and the general public that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is opening up with it new debt options and a new form of deficit. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that, unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not see the proper role of economic policy and economic policy holders. Therefore, we would like to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also one of the main economic policy holders, which, through its instruments, can influence the forms of fiscal policy, monetary policy or direct control instruments and institutional instruments, which have unfortunately proved negative during the last phase of privatisation. As the fact is that if a State privatises a certain part of its assets, whether it be the public sector, it would be expected that it will not in any way subsidise further this sector, which it has just sold. My question in the first part is in particular: Which of the four instruments or sets of instruments does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia plan to implement and implement? And given that I think this is the most important issue that will take place in the next two or three years, I would ask you for specific information so that we can discuss it further or that certain entities in our country will be able to prepare for the failure or action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to anti-inflation policy, I have already spoken at the time of the budget rebalancing, where I have laid down a number of measures, if you remember, placed them in several categories and also connected them with each other. If we now go first to the issue of the tax impact on inflation, there are two tax effects that definitely affect inflation this year, which is an increase in the VAT rate on alcoholic beverages and an increase in excise duties on cigarettes. This increased rate of value added tax on alcohol carried out at the beginning of the year affects inflation of 0.07% and has already been planned under 5.1% of the inflation foreseen for this year. As regards tobacco products and the increase in excise duties, we are bound here by two directives of the European Union. For the time being, we are taking into account the first directive, which requires excise duty to be at least 57% of the retail price of the best-selling cigarettes. This target of 57% of excise duty will be reached on 1.1.2004 and this year on 1 July. In the new year, excise duties have increased, with the combined impact of this increase in excise duties being adapted to the European Directive - at the beginning of the year and on 1 July and together with an increase in VAT on alcoholic beverages is 0.5% of the inflation this year. Therefore, this overall increase has already been established in laws and from this point of view was also taken into account in 5.1% of inflation. This is the part of the taxes that will affect inflation this year. At the same time, the government has led anti-inflationary tax policy by adapting excise duties to mineral oil prices, according to oil derivatives. As you know, at the beginning of the year, when the world market saw a large rise in oil prices, excise cuts neutralized this effect of price increases and, if it did not affect, an increase of 0.7% would have been increased in inflation; as it intervened at the time prices increased, it was 0.2%. Why was it, why couldn't she neutralize it yet? Because there are some restrictions here, as far as the European directives are concerned, these excise duties are the lowest. That's how we got to the minimum of excise duties, and we couldn't lower them any more. Now prices have been falling, we have increased excise duties, so that the overall impact on public financial revenues is neutral. In addition, there was a whole range of other measures that we have already carried out - about these excise duties - because if we did not do so at the beginning of the year, the impact on inflation due to price rigidity would be considerable, the exact calculation is still being done. We also carried out a number of other measures: a coordinated increase in controlled prices, with simultaneous requirements for rationalising the operations of those whose prices we control, we coordinated with the monetary authority, with Banka Slovenije. These were direct measures. Then all measures to reduce public financial expenditure aimed at eliminating the need to increase taxes, which then increase inflation. I've explained this in the balance sheet and we're taking these measures. Eliminating the increase in the amounts for past inflation associated with past inflation is this so-called deindexation. We have done it in certain areas, a lot of areas, and we continue to do so. And increasing the competitiveness of certain monopolistic sectors. With regard to tax reform, I would simply say that the objective of tax reform is to restructure tax burdens rather than increase tax burdens. I have stressed this many times: we are reducing labour taxation and increasing property taxation. So there is no way that higher inflation can result from this objective of tax reform. It's hyperinflation to talk about, but, of course, it's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, you want the Minister to complete his answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u135	Unfortunately, I must say that it is not easy for us to talk about selective taxation with such a government - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment or the economic forum of the Slovenian National Party, this is mainly about taxation of that part or layer of people who will not be able to afford it and who do not have much political power to influence your decisions. On the other hand, the fact is that I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that inflation is going to progress, especially given that your response showed the following, that inflation is being monitored over 365 days, you're trying to get inflation through excise duties on tobacco products and alcohol. The approach to curbing inflation through these two excise duties is, in my opinion, quite meaningless and pointless. But unfortunately, the executive power in this country is in your hands. In your reply, I expected answers in any way, which would also concern the central bank, i.e. monetary measures and, above all, direct controls, i.e. connections between the central bank and the governments of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, the continuation of the process of institutional instruments that would stifle. The fact is that, at least according to our assessment, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would need at least behaviour on the existence of a type of inflation at the normal time of entry into the monetary union. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Slovenia there is a cost inflation, which, in addition to raising prices and wages, a selective increase in wages, causes exactly, according to our assessment, a wrong government policy, in particular as regards tax policy in the area of income and expenditure. Moreover, the most important area is the inactive policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Finance in the field of the central bank in connection with coordination. Because the fact is that the central bank of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the national assembly and the interested communities and with them, with trade unions and a chamber, is the most important element in creating inflation. And the fact is, we all fell here. On the other hand, the gap between inertial inflation and non-inertial inflation is very close. And the moment Slovenia crosses this rubikin, it will be too late and then hyperinflation will no longer be meaningless, but it will be a fact in our hands. My interest, the interest of the Slovenian National Party is solely one: these are: stable public finances. We would be happy to support you in your proposals for rebalancing, in ways to reduce deficits, if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u136	Mr. Pece, please. It's time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u137	The proposals of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were, of course, of good quality and long-term. [[...]] I'm afraid there'll be a government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u138	Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u139	The Republic of Slovenia has taken this country into an enviable position. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I've been waiting for you to finish your thought, but this waiting for your speaking skills has been almost a minute's overtime, so I'm asking you nicely in the future to hold on to your time. Mr. Minister, would you like to give an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u141	Yeah, well, I have to say, it's very hard to answer. I would say only two points: greater taxation of those layers that are most difficult to defend than was obvious. This is not because, in the new Income Act, we foresee an increase in general relief, which means for those with the lowest incomes a serious relief, says the majority of the population that will not be taxed. Then only this emphasis can be placed on the inaction of the Ministry of Finance’s policy regarding the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia is an independent institution. We can talk, we try to coordinate, of course the Ministry of Finance cannot direct Banka Slovenije's decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u143	Since your answer was no, I will repeat once again that it is not easy for us to have such a government. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I appeal to you, Vice-President, to put to the vote tomorrow on an expanded debate where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can be made available and armed with anti-inflationary behaviour, and please accept this as a business opportunity for an expanded debate on the fight against inflation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament may propose that the State assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, but, as is the case with practice, the State Assembly will decide on this proposal at the next meeting of the assembly under the voting item. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Sušnik, Minister of Information Society. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. My question is addressed to the Minister for the Information Society, Mr Paul Gantar, and relates to the implementation of the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. Since the adoption of this law in the National Assembly a year has passed, we have not been satisfied with the legal solutions, so we have tabled a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network, which was approved by a large majority at the previous legislative referendum on 19 January. Seventy-six percent and a few voters supported the above-mentioned bill. The amended and amended law, which was adopted in the final stage on 28 May 2003 and entered into force on 10.6.2003, provides for a refund for overinvestment in the acquisition of a telephone connection in cash, and which is essential, provides for the recovery of all the over-investment made by the contracting authorities for the acquisition of a telephone connection. Dear Minister, given that more than a year has passed since the entry into force of the law, I ask: When can the beneficiaries of both the natural person and the local community and their legal successors expect or expect the return of too much? I ask you this because he is unquestionably committed to the return of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the Government and the Minister of this Government. I ask: How does the Special Commission set up by the Council of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation work? By the way, since the departure of the Director of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation, there is no director. I ask: When will you, as a competent minister, adopt a table showing the amount of connectivity in individual periods of time as prescribed by the law and in areas of former PTT organisations, contributions from self-government stakeholders and everything else that is necessary and represents the legal basis for determining the amount of reimbursement? Next. I ask you: When do you expect the call of beneficiaries to submit a refund application to be issued? This must be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia by the appointed commission - even if you have understood my question, which is substantively related to when - and can you state this as precisely as possible - the return process under this law will begin and end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Pavel Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. Dear Members and Members. As mentioned above, this Commission, which was already established by the Board of Agencies, has already drawn up a table, which has dealt with the period from 1.1.1974 to 31.12.1994. This table has already been sent to the Minister for the Information Society, but has not been published for a clear reason because they were adopted in the meantime, amendments to the law by which the period of return has been extended. Although somewhat vaguely, it was written inside - I had already pointed out this at the time - on the basis of the unequivocal interpretation of lawyers, this deadline was defined by the time line 13.10.1997 when Telekom Slovenije was established. And by that time, they were his ancestors. And this table will be corrected by this date and this table will, of course, be published as soon as this calculation is made, probably relatively quickly, in a few weeks, if not days. However, with regard to the publication of a public call by beneficiaries, this call is not yet urgent, as the deadline for the privatisation of Telekom, from which the fund is being formed, is not yet set and will certainly not take place in this mandate. It is clear that we will prepare this publication, but it makes sense to give this publication a period before this privatisation takes place, otherwise we will have to publish it again and again. Thus, all the activities under the law are, in fact, carried out or have already been carried out. What matters is when the privatisation of Telekom will be carried out. My assessment and, of course, the government, given the state of the telecommunications market, as well as some of the experience from the privatisation of Telekoms in Eastern Europe, is that this will not happen within the mandate of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, you want to Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u149	In any case, a more defined response would be expected. Last but not least, it is reasonable to doubt or doubt the fact that the privatisation of Telekom will not happen, that is also the reason for the adoption of this law, that the privatisation procedures of Telekom have stopped. This will likely continue in any way to avoid the final solution to this problem, which we have been present with since 1999, and from the first Constitutional Court decision until mid-2002, when, finally after major hardships, this law, which solves the pressing issue of investment, which ultimately solves the issue of the relationship of the current government to rural areas, is resolved. I must say that this response was expected, but I am sure that it does not satisfy everyone or satisfy the beneficiaries. It is likely that the pressure method will have to continue, since if there were no pressure, marriage solutions such as these would probably not have been adopted today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u151	Of course, honourable Members and honourable Vice-Presidents, I must clearly deny any idea that the government will not privatise Telekom because it does not want to return the shares of these investments to the telecommunications network. We do not privatise Telekom because it is simply not market conditions that allow sales or partial privatisation to meet the objectives of our telecommunications policy, as well as economic objectives. At the same time, I have to make it very clear that I am not prepared to sell Telekom and damage state property on my own just to meet the demands of those who feel that the investments that will come back must be reversed. It is so clear that we have done all the procedures that we can now do to complete the remaining ones and return the payments when we can sell, partially sell, to Telekom at a reasonable price, without damaging state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u153	Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, welcome! My question is first of all to the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor. Dear Mr. Secretary! On 10 March this year, I informed you in writing about the problem which arose because Durs did not issue any decisions on compensation for the use of building land for this year. On 24 March, because you were absent, I asked you a written question and asked you why Durs acted, for responsibility and who will cover the damage caused by inequity in local communities. Since I reopened this problem at the meeting of the Finance Committee on 24 April, it is said that a month after the question was raised, the responsible Secretary of State, Mrs Milojka Kolar, said the following [[Quote]] : "By the way, Mr Trofenik was sent a reply yesterday in accordance with the deadlines and rules of procedure and in the reply it is very clear how much of the delay Durs is carrying." I find that this claim is unrealistic because I received your ministry's written reply dated May 15th, not until May 21st. However, it does not answer the question raised, it lists the abundance of legal and other acts that are to be the basis, but does not provide an answer to the question raised or travels local communities to certain advances that are without any basis, since all local communities delivered the necessary information to Durs in December. Therefore, I am forced to ask this question again, Your Honor, or to extend it with the following: How is it possible, in the light of the Constitutional Court decision of 10 April of this year, to annul the rulings in those parts where compensation for water surfaces of energy facilities on Drava is granted by Dursa to certain local communities before, it is said, in March, to some, after a decision of the Constitutional Court, when there is no more legal basis, and to some, not at all? This has led the local communities and those who have not obtained decisions to the impossible situation that they have not received a tolar from this source in this year. Others who received for the first six months, however, are evident to have received funds without an adequate legal basis, at least after 10 April of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. This question refers to a decision by the Constitutional Court, as stated by Mr Trofenik, which repealed the provisions of the decision on compensation for the use of building plots. And if it is, say, the Drava River, it is the Gorišnica, Ormož, Ptuj and the Parents, which included the area of the land under the water and sewers of the individual power plants, it is said, this watery land. As provided for by the Constitutional Court Act, the annulment shall take effect in the future, and in the case of cases only, initiated on the basis of repealed provisions which have not yet been decided by law. On the basis of the decrees of the municipalities of Ptuj and Ormož, decisions were already issued for 2003 on the award of compensation for the use of building land, which became legally binding before the repeal of the contested provisions of municipal decisions by the Constitutional Court. These decisions cannot be repealed and are liable, in this case, to the Drava power plant, in accordance with tax law, to settle the whole compensation in 2003. In order to avoid the payment of a double duty in 2003, the solution should be sought in this case in the possibility that in such a case, for 2003 concessions for the use of water land are not charged to concessions which are compensation for the building plot. Due to the timely transmission of the data necessary for the assessment of the compensation for the use of buildings by the municipality of Gorišnica, no decision on the award of compensation to Drava power plants in that municipality was issued for 2003. After the publication of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the municipality of Gorišnica, however, requested the tax authority to issue a decision on the award of compensation for the use of building land to Drava power plants for the period from 1.1.2003 to the date of entry into force of the Constitutional Court’s decisions, that is to say, until 1.5.2003, which would be contrary to the Constitutional Court Act, i.e. illegal. Therefore, the tax authority for water lands cannot issue a decision. Indeed, during the first half of the year, the Drava Power Plants have already indicated the amortisation amount at the expense of the compensation for the use of the building land, since the compensation payments in 2003 are no longer legal basis, will have to be reimbursed to the taxpayer part of the amortisation amount and part of the deposit will be used to pay the compensation for the use of the building land which the Drava Power Plants are obliged to pay for the area of the building land within their installations.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Does he want a full answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u157	I'm sorry, Your Honor, but those who serve you with the data don't give you all the information. I would therefore ask for an exact and more specific response, and I will not use the business arrangement to propose a debate, but I really ask you to ask your subordinates to give you accurate, exact information. I would also ask for that part of the answer to a question that I have not yet received about responsibility. There are municipalities that have been given a decision following the application of the Constitutional Court decision, which is inadmissible, your interpretation, although I am not a lawyer, is contrary to the 9th paragraph of the Constitutional Court decision, which makes it clear that the compensation by virtue of this date does not belong and that the municipalities receive a substitute for the concession or concession fee. This is my second question to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Copac.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much. How? [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Aha. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u161	No, the question is, if you don't mind, I'll be on my own. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u162	Mr. Digger, allow me, allow me, a slight misunderstanding. Of course, Mr Trofenik has the right to ask Mr Kopač a question in its entirety. Maybe you seduced us by saying that, that's what's going on. However, allow me first to give the floor to the Minister of Finance to respond to your wish to complete his answer and then start with another question. Mr. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u163	I'm going to take another look at this and answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Trofenik, now a question for the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary in charge of energy. The Constitutional Court, in point nine of its decision, also substantiates the decision by providing local communities with alternative revenues in view of the suspended compensation for the use of building plots in the part concerning water surfaces in relation to energy facilities. Here, of course, it rightly quotes the tenth point of the regulation adopted by the Government on 27 February. It is not my intention to politicise the provisions of the Regulation and the keys and frameworks for this compensation, but I ask: When will the Government implement the third paragraph of Article 8 of the Regulation that it has adopted? This speaks, I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into account the opinion of the local communities in the areas where the concession is granted." In addition to the fact that you have provided us with the indicative calculations of compensation, you have not yet provided us with any procedure to all affected local communities - at least we are not aware of what this Treaty should look like in order to summarise the opinions at all. You know that the problem is that the congregations or local communities don't even know all the data to check, if I say so, the amounts you've provided. You must understand, however, that some are in an impossible financial situation, no more than 100 million compensation because no decision has been issued and no concession fees have been received, and the government has already decided for this year to whom the financial compensation belongs. That's what they say. They don't even get a financial settlement. But there are a whole bunch of them that are going to fall under the financial settlement system because of these changes and are in serious liquidity difficulties. I'd like to ask for a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. And now he's got the word "minister." Master Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, Mr Trofenik, the concession contract between the State and the Drava Power Plants is prepared, mutually agreed with Drava Power Plant and is ready for signature. Otherwise, in paying the concessions, as you asked, it must be said that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision, by 30 April this year, the municipalities were compensated for the use of building land and, as of 1 May this year, an appropriate share of the concession fee. The Ministry will also present, not at this time, but in the coming days it will present to the Drava Power Plants the accounts of monthly concession payments for 2003 from 1.5 further. Both in the work belonging to the State and in the work belonging to the congregations. The payment will be made to the payment accounts of the fees through the Ministry of Finance and I am counting that soon after the invoices are issued, as I said, will be issued in July 2003. These accounts will take account of the division of concession fee between 19 eligible municipalities following the cut prepared by the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. It's about withdrawals. If we accidentally receive a coordinated proposal from these 19 congregations for a possible different division in the coming days, we will take into account this possible different division in the final calculation. It is true, however, that, as provided for in the third paragraph of Article 8 of the cited Regulation, we have not asked you to deliver an opinion until these days. Therefore, this formal procedure, which you mentioned, has not yet been completed. But I'm counting on it to be in the course of July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Complementary response, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thanks for the answer. No offense, I would suggest that within the government we coordinate the answers, because apparently there are no uniform answers among the ministries, as I find. It's not mean, but it's a finding. I understand your response that you are prepared to amend Article 10 of the Regulation if the affected local communities are so united. I hope that the procedure, if I say so, is in accordance with paragraph 3 of Article 8 of the Regulation. However, I would warn the government that those who have received decisions have also received a paid compensation - i now claim, illegally - for six months, according to Durs data, and that this will cause problems. Of course, there are growing problems in those who do not receive anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u171	That there will be problems with these, in my opinion also with the strange decisions of the tax administration - I agree. We have such a case at the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, which follows in one of the later questions sent to me, so I think that this written communication between the Ministry of Finance and you, as a Member who has asked the question of a Member, will clear up these dilemmas. As for those who do not have any income at this moment, as I said, we understand this tribulation and we will try to put all these accounts out in July so that this thing can then begin to run as stipulated in the regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! My question was addressed to three ministries: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. I believe that Slovenia is still under-connected with many Slovenians who live around the world. The positive shift this year is already the third world conference of Slovenian scientists and economists from all over the world and in the country. Unfortunately, this conference was not organised through the government but was organised through civil society. Given that other countries, such as the Czech Republic, Ireland and the like, maintain very close contacts in both the scientific and economic fields with their experts abroad and invite them to cooperate, I would like to know: with what number and how our country cooperates with Slovenians already established abroad? From independence to today, how many prominent Slovenians have taught at the invitation of Slovenian universities in our country? Do our ministries have any vision of how this intellectual potential that we are offered will be exploited? Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already given me a written answer, I thank him. There is no Minister of Economy, so I expect a written reply from her, and I ask Minister Gabra to give his part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much - Madam Vice-President, Madam Members, ladies and gentlemen - for the question. If I answer exactly your question, then I will have to tell you - and this will only be part of my answer - to begin with, to answer the question of how many of our established professors, professors who are currently around the world, have asked the University of Ljubljana or all of the university institutions in Slovenia and we will answer this in writing because this is within their competence. We only allow financially in some cases such arrivals to Slovenia and the conduct of lectures, while we do not conduct the list of these lectures. The truth will only be drawn up by university institutions in a loving way. But we know that such lectures exist, and so you can expect this answer in due course. Otherwise, in the current year, we are funding two research projects from our ministry of Slovenian research institutes of substitution: one in Trieste, the other in Celovac. We are also co-financed by a young researcher who is researching at one of these institutes, and you have already mentioned the scientific meetings that are taking place. The one you were talking about, and was recently quite prominent in Slovenia, is the government, of course, not organised, but co-financed. We intend to do so in future, and we invite our peers, who are highly qualified, to participate in both the Sixth Framework Programme and other activities of the European Union, in which we also join, at the level of these programming activities. There are still certain other points through which cooperation is already underway. One is the Slovenian Economic Research Association in Brussels, the other is the Slovenian Science Institute in Vienna. In short, this network is already quite widely distributed, but I think that your issue today also leads to this - it encourages a further focused approach to this issue. This is what our services are already doing, and I expect that in due course we will be able to round up this policy, which will be combined with what is going on in the field of education. I don't know, it might indicate that Slovenia is currently scholarshiping about 150 students from the foreign exchange and expatriate students at the undergraduate study in Slovenia; it offers shorter forms of postgraduate study, it supports Slovenian language lectures [[There are 40 of them all over the world right now.]] . The last example -- we're very proud of him -- is the opening of a lecture in Buenos Aires, Argentina. We co-finance 50 teachers of complementary learning abroad and so on. There's something going on. However, I agree with you that it shows, probably, that we will be able to add a more rounded government policy to this, but I believe that we will be able to upgrade it together with other departments.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mrs Tisovic wishes to complete her reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your answer. I think in one area you've said quite well how we finance others. However, we would also like to know this potential that we have outside to attract inside that we have something in Slovenia. In that sense, I meant what a vision it was. You answered my question, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs answered me in this regard. Mainly, the focus of my question was on this: How will we attract back knowledge from Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u179	As you've already established, I've alerted you to both moments. Personally, I am sure that even when it comes to financing or co-financing studies of our relatives in Slovenia, this indirectly - I do not know if there is a need to elaborate on this - means also returning some potential to Slovenia, and I do not see these finances as finances that go abroad and would benefit anyone else. When I'm talking about funding and co-financing scientific potential at the institutes I mentioned, these institutes are not studying or research projects are not geared towards the benefit of another country. [[I'm not going to the addresses on purpose, but I can give you this because I have this material ahead of me, including the addresses of these tasks.]] This is for the benefit of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Secretary-General of the Government and the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the ministers and respected colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the Minister of Education, Mr Gabr, my first question. On the day of Statehood and at the same time the school year, several in-depth analyses were carried out on the presence of Slovenian independence in schools, in particular in history. Of the 118 operational objectives of the fourth year of high school, two were intended for the democratisation of Slovenia and its independence. This means at a practical level that the history teacher has only one lesson hour at his disposal to address the democratisation of Slovenia and its independence. And we need to find out that it's catastrophic. This indicates a total disregard for democratisation and Slovenian independence and a conscious disregard for the formation of national consciousness and national identity through the teaching substance. The same image of neglect is shown through the current graduation catalogue for history. The renewed curriculum for high school highlights that the final level of knowledge to which the teacher must weigh is determined by the graduation. The entire graduate exam is divided into 20 themes, of which eight are national Slovene, the last Slovenian topic taught by students has the title Slovenians in the first decade after World War II, meaning that they are learning Slovenian history only until 1955. In this orientation of learning content, it is understandable that high school graduates know almost nothing about the independence of Slovenia, as indicated by the surveys, and that the school does not instill in them the desired national pride and attitude towards their own history. Students and students are much more and more familiar with the icons of the former Yugoslav State through educational content and graduation programmes than by building a relationship with Slovenia. Not to mention that important men for the creation of Slovenia are practically silent - such as, say, Maister. He therefore asks and who is responsible for such a shameful situation in the field of youth education? Why is the creation of national consciousness and identity at best a matter of personal commitment to teachers? What will the Ministry do to stop the objective anti-Slovenian attitude of learning content in the next school year? When will pupils and students be familiar with the process of independence of Slovenia be part of compulsory education? Isn't it about time? In a survey conducted between students in the 7th and 8th classes and students in the 4th grade of high school, most of history studies end with the end of World War II. This is a real picture of the history of Slovenia and the independent Slovenian country in our schools! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Minister Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen. The picture that honourable Member Jerovšek painted is, of course, a picture that at least he paints to us. When we tried to gain as much insight as possible into how the curriculum records this subject, the topic of self-reliance or even better the construction of Slovenian national identity, it turns out that the painting is much more varied. If we take them really, even as large people in our history as Maister, then we find them several times during the entire learning process in parallel. When it comes to Slovenia, we find a return to the period of Quarantine and so on, throughout history. This happens not only in the subject of history, but also in other subjects, especially in the subject of Slovenian language and literature. I have before me a list of the relevant educational groups of the institution for the subjects, which I will also be happy to hand over to the Member of Parliament. There are only a few things I'd like to point out. The first is that in this country, from the 1990s forward with certainty, politics no longer contains curricula. They're being discussed by the profession. Just as historians and historians and those dealing with other areas in which this topic is addressed decide, they judge how many hours are allocated for what. While hours prescribed in the curriculum have long been out of the question. Thus it is not possible to calculate, as colleague Jerovšek calculated, the number of hours to devote to which subject. The curriculum is targeted, the substance needs to be won, but the hours are no longer prescribed. However, let me say that, for example, every year, one of those at the graduation is dedicated to this particular area and that the same is true in the exam fields for the primary school area. However, in order to avoid misinterpretation, I agree that further attention should be paid to civic education. A special group for this purpose has already been established within the Ministry. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that, as this year's youth population has been particularly invited, I have recently been invited to a celebration before Parliament, it is necessary to add as much respect to my own country as possible and to the political institutions of the population as possible. Only both together, so the efforts of the school, which were also invited this year to mark the day of statehood at the end of the school year, make progress in this area possible. I think we will succeed with experts, who are further reminded by such questions of the re-examination of these issues, to find an appropriate measure of concern for national pride in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, your answer that the ministry or policy is not responsible for the formation of national consciousness and the situation in this area seemed somewhat ignorant to me. You admitted that for the first time this year, young people were invited to celebrate the holiday of statehood. And you're saying the painting's a big picture. I agree that there is a variety of things in that this area is quite blurry and confusion is not transparency. I cannot agree at all that the giants of our history, Maister and others, Slomšek, are sufficiently present in the contents. Young people, I've convinced myself that when I pick them up on a stick, they don't have the image of these people, but we know that some of the icons of the former regimes, totalitarian ones, had the first-graders in their head. I submit that in the field of education of youth and the formation of national consciousness, Slovenia has practically permanent publishing. When I was preparing for this topic, I also spoke to two academics. I have read many articles, from which I have also drawn something, and I have not met a person who would agree or be satisfied with the state of the spirit in this area. And that's not what young people are responsible for. Our youth is also good, patriotic. But she is not raised in this spirit for patriotism. I don't know what the ideological reasons are. I don't know. Let's say Libelic and Libelian youth don't even know, they don't learn. That's why last year the state ignored the 80th anniversary of the great struggle, the great actions of the Lebanese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u187	Thank you. Look, I myself have mentioned two elements that are important for the topic we are talking about. First time. Within the school curriculum in this country, fortunately, it has for some time been no longer ruled by politics and does not determine what should be included in the curriculum of an individual subject. It's the right thing to do, and I hope it will be the same in the future. I am particularly convinced that this is the case when it is easy to talk here about high treason and contradiction, and I do not know what else. If politics were to start writing curricula instead of historians for history and instead of celebrations, and instead, in order, for biology instead of biologists, we might return to some times that were not particularly friendly. I therefore suggest a meaningful and patient professional debate on these issues, which will go hand in hand with this group, which deals specifically with issues of civic education and civil culture. Hard words about treason do not contribute to civil culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. And now the question you have raised, Mr Jerovšek, to the Secretary-General of the Government. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u189	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that, due to a lack of response, an expanded debate be held on this extremely important point, the formation of national consciousness, national relations, patriotism among the young generation. I hope that the government is aware that, without an educated national pride and patriotism, it is not in the long term possible to count on a healthy national economy sovereignty, defence ability and so on. I think that this is one of the key topics, and I hope that in this case I will not get an answer, that this is also a policy intervention in this area. I hope that such a debate, which is extremely important, is legitimate and necessary in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Education, Science and Sport to his delegation will be decided by the State Assembly at the next meeting of the Assembly in the framework of the votes. I now give you, Mr Jerovšek, a word for the question of the question of the matter before the Secretary-General of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u191	Zgornji Bistrica in the municipality of Slovenska Bistriva was exhumed in 2001 on the basis of the existing conclusions of the Commission for the Registration and Marking of Cemeteries at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipal Council, 431 human skeletons were exhumed, victims of post-war beatings. The excavation of corpses or remains located in the former bunker shelter in Zgornja Bistrica was ordered by investigating judge Ivan Novak by order, operative number KPD 495/2001, dated 30.8.2001. The investigating judge also ordered that the Institute of Forensic Medicine from Ljubljana carry out an expert work. Since the issue of covered graves falls under all criteria, the Commission for the Registration and Marking of Cemeteries of the Republic of Slovenia at its 6th regular session of 19.6.2001 decided that the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica for the digging up and identification of victims in the bunker of Zgornja Bistrica shall, on the basis of the invoices, transfer the money referred to in item 6661 to the Ministry of Labour. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite its programmed policy to address the problem of the graves of the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, has so far not reimbursed the resulting costs associated with the discovery of graves in the bunkers in Zgornja Bistrica, in the amount of 32 million, with which the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica temporarily financed the excavation. I'm asking the government why they don't pay the people they've accepted about gibberish. Why is he in total opposition to the Republic of Slovenia's adopted declaration on the adoption of the War Cemetery Act and also against the adopted law? The discovery, the excavation of the hidden cemetery in Zgornji Bistrica, made a significant and significant shift in Slovenia in the fiveth relationship to the victims who were killed. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia clearly opposes this by rejecting the refund of costs, showing that it does not intend to seriously and honestly implement the declared policies. I ask in particular: When will the government repay the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica these funds - for it always invents new excuses and then takes responsibility for the payment to the State Prosecutor's Office? The state prosecutor's office paid for its work and the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica was not reimbursed. Is the government aware of any symbolic message sent to the Slovenian public to act so ignorantly on a matter that separates Slovenians and does not want this problem to be solved so that the markings can finally be placed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirko Bandelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer as best I can about this problem. The fact is that the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica began digging through some of my, pardon, Slovenian Bistrica, according to my information, even before the relevant decisions were issued. But that's not essential right now. Of course, the government cannot do otherwise than the laws on the implementation of the budget and the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It cannot, of course, cover the 2001 commitments unless they are specifically defined in the 2003 or 2004 budget. The fact is that this system has simply not been integrated into the system of budgetary expenditure for this purpose. In principle, the budgetary expenditure shall be paid by the authority which caused it. In this case, they are indisputably judicial authorities or prosecutors. It is also true that one part of this was paid by the prosecution. According to my information, the Supreme Court has also received funds specifically from the budget for this purpose and has expressed some willingness to cover one part of these funds. Nevertheless, in the government we are looking for the possibility that one part of these costs, which the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica had in connection with this excavation, would be settled. As far as I know, some appropriate arrangements are already under way in this direction, in particular with the assistance of the government commission led by Mr Pershin. If I recall correctly, it is likely that you, Mr Jerovšek, will know this better, since you were supposed to be there at the meeting, it was agreed that the government would send a recommendation on co-financing or coverage of an 11 million Slovenian Bistrica account mainly by this commission. While this recommendation is not yet available, we are not waiting for this recommendation, of course it would be welcome, independently of this in the government between the competent ministries, in particular the Ministry of Labour, Justice and Home Affairs, to seek solutions to the budget, as is the case with the items identified in the budget, to execute this part of the separation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u195	Of course, I cannot be satisfied with the answer. In fact, with the Flossules we are looking for how long will you be looking for?How long will you show the Slovenian public this farce that you have signed a declaration that you have adopted a law while you are not enforcing this law? Will this law also be applied, such as that of Dr. Kopač, that certain laws do not require enforcement? Is it not interesting and indicative that whenever a payment obligation arises under a law that is not universal for the whole of Slovenia, but relates to some part of Slovenia, let's say in this case Slovensko Bistrica or if it were in Koroškem, Prekmurje or, I don't know, Brkini, it would be the same, then the government does not do it, but at the same time always has enough money to pay the billions of rewards that are corrupt are illegal. Why don't you put those resources into this? All Slovenian cemeteries would already have features and the Slovenian people would be less contentious. You're going farce. And I ask you to settle your obligations as soon as possible, and no more excuses for excuses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, before I give my word to Mr Bandl, you have hurt the honour of Minister Janez Kopač by stating that the doctrine of Janez Kopač is one which dictates that laws are not respected, and I expect you to apologize to him. I give my word to the Secretary-General to give an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u197	Well, I was just about to get to that part of the statement. In fact, the government is not subject to anything other than the rules and the budget in force. And precisely because no regulation imposes a direct obligation on the government or any ministry to pay these costs to the municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, we need to find an appropriate solution which will be systematically acceptable and which will be legal. And that's what we're looking for. Therefore, I can also reject all other insinuations regarding the fact that all issues are also piete, politicisation of this issue and so on - this is a purely technical financial issue, which is not easy in its solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u198	Thank you very much. If you'd like to excuse yourself, Mr Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u199	Yes, if Minister Kopach was hurt by this, of course I apologize to him. Please also apologize to those who were told in Styria that there are no wise people in Maribor, and to those who were told that this law would not be enforced. At that time, people in Styria were deeply hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u200	Mr Jerovšek, please, no one who doesn't give him the word can have it. I also ask the Minister to respect the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jerovšek apologized. I think that the apology had its place, and thus the declaration cannot be accepted as it was given. Mr Leopold Groselj will now raise the question to the Minister for Finance and Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u201	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I am asking a question about the difficult financial problem in Radeče. From the amount of compensation charged for the building site of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, the municipality has to return 178 million SIT, which represents more than half of the eligible consumption of Radeče in 2003. It is a matter that has been going on for some time now, and it has been inherited by the present congregational leadership. The interviews of the new head of the municipality at the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and at the Ministry of Finance do not go in the direction of readiness to find a possible common solution, which practically puts Radeče municipality ahead of financial failure. In 1993, Vrhovo began operating the hydroelectric power plant, which has been under construction since 1986. The new Radeče Congregation was established in 1995. In order to take up part of the obligations under unfinished works and maintain the built utilities as a consequence of the construction of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant, it was also necessary to provide a permanent source of resources. As the Regulation on the granting of the concession for the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant was not implemented, the municipality adopted a decree by which the Sava power plant Ljubljana undertook to pay its contribution to the building land for the entire dam of the Vrhovo hydroelectric power plant. For 1996, 1997 and 1998, the contribution at various levels was also charged. The Sava power plants of Ljubljana objected in this way and challenged the amounts charged by legal means. However, the State and its institutions have always taken a wise stand, even though they should grant concessions under the regulation. The Constitutional Court’s judgment of 28 October 1999 referred the municipality and the State to regulate the case by concession and not by way of compensation for building land. In doing so, the Constitutional Court sought to protect the interest of the municipality of Radeče by repealing the municipal decree governing the charging of the building land and not for the removal. The tax administration, however, took into account the Constitutional Court Act in the drafting of the final decision, which provides that the decision shall take into account the rules applicable on the date of the final decision. As a result of the complaints, the final decision took into account the rules of 2000 when the municipal decree on the payment of the building land had already been repealed by a Constitutional Court judgment. Due to the established principle of late interest, the principal of SIT 92 million, despite the return of SIT 26 million, increased to SIT 180 million, which must be returned to the Sava power plants of Ljubljana by Radeče. I ask the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and the Ministry of Finance the following. Why is this attitude towards the problem of the Radeče municipality and how do you intend to help resolve the situation, as it is largely due to the failure to implement the adopted regulations of the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy and, above all, the Ministry of the Economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u202	Thank you very much. First, I give the floor to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Master Janez Kopac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, Mr Grošelj. The fact is that the problems mentioned by you are due to the fact that the Sava Power Plants have gone on appeal as a company and has increased to 178 million tolars due to the established principle of late interest of principal 92 million tolars, as you mentioned. It is not clear, however, that the Sava Power Plants have ceased to pay compensation for the use of building land as a result of the Constitutional Court decision. The Sava power plant still pays compensation for the use of the building land, but only for the part of the land for which the charging of such compensation is lawful.The municipality of Radeče charged this also from the water land or from the land under the accumulation of the plant Vrhovo Savaska Power Plant, of course, they complained to the Constitutional Court. They didn't sue the congregations, but they complained to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court gave them the right one and that is why this debt of the municipality is due to a decision of the Constitutional Court. This had an impact on the tax administration’s decision to overcompensate. In short, there is no dispute between the Sava power plants and the municipality. It is the debt of the municipality which has been identified as a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court. We've been trying to solve this problem. We organized a meeting with the mayor of Radeče, and there we also proposed or considered a possible solution. We have proposed to explore the possibility of repayment of the debt to be repaid during the entire period of payment of the concession, which is 50 years, which would represent a lower revenue for the municipality of around 3 million tolar per year. That would be bearable. But if we want to solve the situation in this way, the tax administration should agree. However, the tax administration, according to our known information, I think that the Minister of Finance will also say this, which he cannot agree to. In fact, she does not have any legal authority to do otherwise than she does, and that is to claim the congregation for this unlawfully charged amount. Existing regulations do not allow any good to resolve this problem in a way that reduces, cancels, postpones, or any other debt. If we wanted anything else, we would need a special law that Parliament would adopt only on the subject, the debt of the Radeče congregation. We understand this, but I think the Minister of Finance will explain something.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Marble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Actually, there's not enough to add. We were actually trying to solve this problem, and we were also the initiator of last year's meeting with representatives, as already mentioned by the Minister, governments, municipalities, Sava power plants and coordination meetings. The last one was 27.1. We have come to these conclusions made by the Minister that there is simply no legal possibility for the tax administration to allow such a way of paying back, because taxes have to be reimbursed in a single amount. Then we also looked for these options in the context of the congregation’s debt to the congregation and then to pay off the concessional debt and to pay in one single amount. However, there is also a problem, since there is also a limit to how much the congregation may owe. In fact, the only solution is the one stated by the Minister for Environment and Space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u206	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer. Here you go, Mr. Groschel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. It is also true that Durs rejected the decision of the Sava Power Plants or the complaint as unfounded, and only after the decision of the Constitutional Court did it put it into effect. It is said that Durs has already violated his rules here, and that is undoubtedly the case. Secondly, I would also like to mention that in 2000, when the National Assembly of 23.6.2000 adopted a law on the granting of concessions for the exploitation of water potential on the lower Sava, and these provisions and laws set a three-month deadline for the award of concessions and a six-month period for the signing of the concession contract, and, of course, we can find together that these deadlines were not respected. The concession was awarded to the Sava power plant Ljubljana in November 2000. More than four months late, I guess. The Concession Treaty was signed only in July 2002, two years after the adoption of the Vrhovo Building Act. The municipality of Radeče was not invited to sign because they were signatories or mayors of the municipalities of Sevnice, Krško and Brežice. In this way, the municipality of Radeče was again injured for about 37 and a half million SIT concessions. [[...]] A document that the Ministry of the Environment knows very well also shows here that there is no dispute here, over [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which undoubtedly belongs to the municipality of Brežica. [[...]] The hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo itself, which was built, and this clearly shows, was built on the land of Vrhovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Is there anything else that any of the ministers would like to explain? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. He will ask the Minister of Finance the question of Mr Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Respectable persistent members of the government, Madam Minister and Madam Ministers! Mr. Secretary of State! As a professor, in the studies you have been working for the government, you have found that the SOD and the CAD do not have the appropriate rules for carrying out or operating capital shares of 20% of the capital of former social enterprises. You have found that these two capital companies should be subject to the same rules as investment funds. The situation in this area is today, after six months, since you have been responsible as a finance minister, among other things, unfortunately still as it was before your arrival. Today, as a finance minister and a member of the government, I want you to respond to another aspect of the management of the capital shares of the SOD and the KAD, according to any instructions or rules of the government, for example, Mr Lenič or Mr Kušar, when they decide to sell together over 70% of the ownership stake in the Paloma Sweet Summit. We are interested in whether Mr Lenič and Kušar are obliged to respect any strategy for the development of the paper and cellulose industry in Slovenia, i.e. for an economic activity which is known to bring us relatively high added value. And another question. According to our information, at the beginning of this year, KAD and SOD commissioned Paloma's appreciation for the sale of the authorized price list, which is also the President of the Paloma Supervisory Board. Therefore, I would be very pleased to have your answer to the question: Does the conclusion that the President of the Paloma Supervisory Board is also evaluating this company meet the criteria for the dependence of the persons involved in this professional business, which you have greatly helped us to develop as a professor? On the other hand, the workers in the Paloma factory would be even more pleased with the answer to the second question: How many employees in Paloma would you say would have a salary under an individual contract? 5 or 10 leading managers or maybe even about 30? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u210	Thank you. Minister of Finance, Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you so much for asking. It is true that in this study we have found that the SOD and the CAD should be subject to the same supervision as other players in the capital market. In this direction, too, the transformation of the KAD is now under way. For the SOD, of course, the rules of business and also the objectives which they have slightly different, since the SOD has only one, and this is fundamental, the objective of obtaining as much profit from selling this property as possible, which is then used to pay the denationalisation obligations. How do they manage their shares? Of course, they have a certain structure of control, and they also have their own policies of asset management and sales. The SOD considers that the statutes, internal rules, annual business plan define these more detailed criteria for the operation and management of assets, with the aim of maximising, as I said, the benefits for beneficiaries of different types of compensation, in order to ensure that this existing asset, still represented by capital investments, is provided with as much money as possible to cover legal obligations. These acts, the internal rules, the annual and business plans, are designed and then adopted on their management bodies, this is d.d., is organised as a share company, the organisation is also based on the provisions of the home law and so on. Their asset management policy is determined through these authorities. The same applies to KAD. When it is also organised as a share company, it is said to operate in accordance with the Company Act, according to its broad activities, it is said not only what property management was obtained from the property, but also under the First Pension Fund Act, and the property acquired by this Act, and since 2001 the Compulsory Additional Pension Insurance Fund and the Mutual Pension Insurance Fund. In this area, changes are now being made in order to actually separate what is from the ownership of these 10% of the assets of the companies that went into ownership and what is related to the management of the funds, according to the PPS, with the fund of compulsory supplementary pension insurance and mutual supplementary pension insurance. This part would be managed in the way it is managed in accordance with the Investment Companies Act. That's how change's gonna happen. These activities are underway. The division of KAD into these two parts, which would be managed differently, will also be carried out. As far as Paloma's case is concerned, I must admit that I don't know him because he's being handled at KAD, as you mentioned. In doing so, KAD does not follow the objectives of developing this activity. KAD also has its responsibilities - primarily asset management and broader strategic objectives are not its core activity. Otherwise, we could get information, if you want, for this case. I also do not know who has done the evaluation. If your claim is correct, of course it is not an independent person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Dr. Bajuk, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. Obviously, the KAD and the SOD do not have from the owner or one who actually has to exercise this right, and this is the Slovenian government, they do not have any specific instructions regarding the development of the paper-processing industry in Slovenia. This is a major concern because what is already happening in the cellulose industry can happen to us in this area. It is known that the pulp and paper factory in Krskem - according to acquaintances - will soon shut down its cellulose production, because the Czech owners, or the first Czech owners, do not comply with the contract concluded with the government when purchasing this factory, which is now in bankruptcy. They have no interest in investing about a billion euros in new cellulosic capacity. However, Slovenia is a land of forests 53% of our land is forests, but we do not know whether our government knows where it will be able to process waste from the cleaning of all these forests in the near future. Are we really not aware of this? What would we expect? We would expect the government, on behalf of all citizens and citizens, to take a clear stand and open the way for Paloma to take place in an organised market. Mr. Minister, do you disagree with me so that new shares can be issued - why not?Oh, my God! - in our capital market? Of course, there is also the possibility of a strategic partner, a foreigner who would really take on such a development. Why does the Slovenian government in this area, which is so important to our future together, have no clear strategy? I am sure that if Paloma were to take part in the Slovenian stock exchange, Mr Veselinovic would be very happy. Not because of his last name, because all we have to do is work on it so we can end the gray market and there's no better way than this. Thank you very much. I don't know any other way, maybe you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u215	I reiterate that I do not know this case and that in this case we will reply in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I have also asked a similar question to the Prime Minister, and I do not yet have an answer. There are no answers because there is no strategy. That is why I think it is absolutely necessary for this National Assembly to hold a debate on this issue, including on the specific issue of what is happening in such an important company in Slovenia as Paloma, in which the Slovenian Government has already invested almost 2 billion tolars in recapitalisation in 2000. I think it is imperative that this debate be held in this national assembly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We have a proposal from the Member of Parliament, Dr Andre Bajuk, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question. Dr. Bajuk, your question was about managing the capital shares of the capital company and the Slovenian compensation company, not Palomo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u219	That's right, and you can review the magnetogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u220	In this regard, the National Assembly will decide at its meeting tomorrow to discuss the response of the Minister of Finance to your question raised. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u221	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear government representatives and representatives! Colleagues and colleagues! We have recently received a report from the Ombudsman and I have been somewhat appalled by the chapter on child rights. This section of the Ombudsman states or states that the Ombudsman's basic approach is the benefit of the child and further says, "In considering initiatives and monitoring in the field of children's rights, we observe irregularities arising both from existing practice and from domestic legislation, which is often contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution treats the child as an independent and independent legal entity, while our legislation stems from the view that the child is primarily an object of protection". And what does that mean in practice? It's a specific case. A 14-year-old child sought help from the guardian, says that he is currently in a crisis center, but that the social work center wants to put him in a institution and the child wants to be with the foster family. The social work centre’s response was to take into account only the institution, and only the next school year. Despite the E.R., and this multiple, the Ombudsman was found to be very slow in the procedures at the Social Work Centre. The child said that he felt like a bag of potatoes that could be placed anywhere and loved by anyone. On the question of the possibility of housing in the foster family, the centre for social work, in this case Ljubljana-Bežigrad, explained that they did not find a suitable foster family. The baby found a foster family later on as well as himself. Nevertheless, the Centre for Social Work has re-emerged the fostering process and the Ombudsman's intervention has been necessary. So I ask: How can it be that a center, no matter where, for social work, treats children as an institution's facility, we can say what the ownership of bureaucrats is? This is not an isolated case in this report. There are many such and similar cases. We have so many beautiful words about citizens' rights, especially children's rights, which is right. With regard to rights, we are particularly sensitive to those who have worked openly against the country of the Republic of Slovenia - here I mean the so-called "deleted". But this is about kids, and we act so bureaucraticly. I ask the Minister: How can it be that, as we say, we have the best legislation in this area, because it seems that we can only speak, but we have institutions that act bureaucraticly and treat children the way that this child said, like bags of potatoes? How is it even possible that we have such institutions that treat children so bureaucraticly? My question is concrete, Mr Minister: What are you going to do about such and similar human rights violations, specifically children's rights? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Your Honor, thank you for your question. I'm sorry this case happened, too. In any case, if the child felt that way, of course, I am even more sorry. The fact is, this shouldn't be happening. In any case, the basic position we advocate in all legal changes is undoubtedly in the interests of the child. Despite the fact that in individual cases this may not be the case, as in the case that you described here and the stick, and will receive our special attention. Let me say here that the answer to your question can be multilayered. On the one hand, there is one fundamental question of how to protect the rights of the child in law and law. Another is what we will do in this and other areas that speak about the protection of the rights of the child. And the third is how we will actually put this fundamental right to the protection of children's rights into practice. Let me try to structure this answer briefly. First, as far as legal definitions are concerned. As you know, several steps have been taken in the area of family law in recent years. Probably not all of them, not enough. It is certainly our very important direction to regulate the benefits and decisions of contact with children in the law on marriage and family relations. In doing so, it is important that we come from this basic paradigm and that, in fact, this role is taken over by the courts instead of social work centres. Such a legal text is prepared, is in cross-sectoral coordination and will soon be in the parliamentary benches. It is, therefore, that social work centres no longer decide on these contacts, but that this has been transferred to the courts, which we believe is also an appropriate European practice. Social work centres, however, have taken over the function of mediation and globalism, as more and more parents have been looking for a child in one way or another. Secondly, as regards the legal arrangements for fostering activities. This Parliament has recently passed a law on fostering activities and has in some ways laid the groundwork for the implementation of this activity in Slovenia, but it has a very long tradition. In this particular case, as you mentioned, there was a solution to the foster family. This is also very important for us, because in Slovenia there are about 1,000 children who find a solution in foster families, and this is an instrument that is very important. The second thing I would like to say is that we are preparing a national programme, which I have already mentioned before, a national programme for children, which will also establish what the Ombudsman states, namely the function of representing children's rights and children. Many times, children do not have the opportunity to exercise their right directly or through their representative. I must say that here is our position that a child needs to be listened to. It is often necessary to have some professional support in this regard. It is also in this direction that our efforts are to have someone or to develop this function of representing children and children’s rights. And third, as far as implementation is concerned, the exercise of this child's right and the rights of the child's advocates are called implementing organisations, which is what social work centres are called. Social work centres also make mistakes and mistakes, and that is why we joined a supervisory authority last year. We have set up a supervisory authority within the Ministry, which is trying to identify irregularities and, of course, eliminate them by reviewing administrative, professional and other procedures. With the new law, or with the amendment of the Social Security Act, and with social protection, we want to go one step further, by establishing a social inspection. This is a job that will monitor procedures professionally and administratively mainly in social work centres and try to eliminate them directly. This is also recorded in the National Social Protection Programme until 2005 and is one of our tasks. I hope that this will also happen with a new amendment to the Social Protection Act. However, in any event, it is important that I say again at this point, if a particular case is to be found, the Ministry is always the one responsible for such or other supervision, professional or administrative, and then it tries to work in the protection of children's rights by addressing these problems and, of course, establishing a state that is most optimal for the child.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. I thank the Minister for that answer, if I'm not happy with him. The fact is that legislation is likely to need to be amended. I agree with that, and I support that. That no legislation will help if the authorities working in this system continue to be bureaucratic and inhuman if they do not have a human approach, if they treat the child as a protection facility in this case. In a document that you gave me before, I quickly read that you also consider inspection, which I think is good. However, if the inspection does not also address these cases specifically referred to by the Ombudsman and discuss with the operators and seek their answers and try to improve their work, then the new legislation will not help us all together, because we will still treat children as a statistical object in the work we are doing. I will be satisfied with the answer if there is a change in the treatment of children, if we are more human in this way, that we will not be bureaucratic, but that we will be human and that we will find responsibility in institutions. In this case, they are social work centres that do not do their work as they should. What is described here, and not only in this case, are these centers actually acting like an elephant in a porcelain shop. People, especially children, need different treatment. This is the human approach for which, Minister, given that you are responsible for this area, you have to take a somewhat more firm stand and, if this is not the case, talk to these people. What you've told me, I'm satisfied, but my pleasure will be right when these problems are resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Here, of course, I agree with what you have said that sometimes too much bureaucratic work is too little attention for people. Let me just say that we have joined the programme, which we have proposed as one of the priority programmes also by the end of the mandate, as regards the implementation of work at the centres for social work, which we are talking about modernising social work centres with five very concrete points. The first point of this programme is to put people at the centre of interest and care of the centre for social work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Dorian Marsic will ask the Minister of Justice the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. At the 12th meeting of the National Assembly on 22 January last year, I raised an oral question to the Minister of Justice about the resolution of the problems caused by the fact that about 5% of the surface of the Koper municipality. Land books are still not being run by the Slovenian Land Book Court. It is mainly the cathedral municipality of Pregara. Thus, citizens and citizens of the border area in Slovenia are forced to solve their book-keeping cases in a land-book court in another country, namely Buzet in the Republic of Croatia. This fact 12 years after the independence of the Republic of Slovenia shows the scandalous attitude of the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia to solve this problem and the strange understanding of the exercise of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia. While I received a formal answer to the question put by the Member States, I also thanked them for it. Despite further research over the year and a half, I sit that the solution to this problem has not moved from a dead point. I ask the Minister of Justice: Why has the procedure for setting up or supplementing the land book for this border area in Slovenia not yet started and who is responsible? When will the process of setting up or supplementing the land book for this area begin? How does the Ministry intend to participate in the selection of data in the process of setting up or supplementing? What are the tasks of the competent land book court in Cyprus, what are the deadlines for setting up or supplementing it, how will the Ministry assist the court in this procedure, and how will it monitor it? Why has the Ministry of Justice been minimizing this problem for several years now, since it is only a small area or a small number of properties? Dear Minister, I have an additional question from what has already been sent in writing: What does the Ministry of Justice think of the number of judicial arrears reflected in the Ombudsman's eighth regular annual report for 2002 in the field of land-booking cases, where, despite the prescribed three-month deadline for the resolution of the case, one year is pending until the decision is closed? In this context, I would like to add to the question: What does the Ministry of Justice still think about the number of judicial arrears, where it is necessary to wait three, four, five years or even more in the courts of general jurisdiction, as well as in the specialised courts, from the filing of an action to the first main hearing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Ivan Biszak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u231	Madam President, honourable Members and Members. First, perhaps briefly to this question, an additional second, of course, which would probably require a very long answer, but part of this answer is contained in a number of documents that have been prepared recently. First, an assessment of the situation in the Land Book Courts. In fact, we are not satisfied with this situation, but a number of activities are being carried out, in particular the Supreme Court's project to inform the Land Book, which, among other things, brought about last year's decline in the number of outstanding land-book cases for the first time after a long time. Indeed, for a small percentage, but this is our first sign of expected improvement when the land book is more computerized. The level of informationisation of the land book is now around three quarters, and in the courts where they have the highest rate, they also solve a lot more land-book cases, so the efficiency of the referees has increased significantly. We will also discuss the Ombudsman's report, including the allegations concerning the situation in the courts. I read this part of the report myself. There is, inter alia, a statement that there is a greater exception if certain matters are resolved in the courts within the time limits laid down by the Rules of Procedure. Of course it doesn't. Here, I think this evaluation is too businessy. The situation in the courts also shows annual statistics for last year and is such that the situation in more important cases is improving significantly. The situation under the Article of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of judicial arrears, is also improved by a rate of about 20% per year. Thus, we can observe in the last two years when the backlogs are so driven that there has been a significant improvement. A particular problem is the issue of the land book, which I have talked about in part. A serious problem is also the issue of executions, with which the Ministry and the courts, because it is within their competence, are directly engaged. So that I don't run out of time to answer the first question, let me not keep talking about the situation in the courts. That's right. You asked that question at the beginning of last year. After examining the issue, we found that the problem could be solved in two ways, either by copying data from the Croatian Land Book or by setting up a new one. The Ministry then decided to proceed with the first copy procedure, because we estimated that this would be faster and even cheaper. I made such a proposal to the Croatian Minister at the beginning of March last year at our meeting. I suggested that they allow the copying of property data from the cadastral municipality of Pregar from the land book, which is maintained in Croatia. This proposal was adopted in principle at the time by agreeing to be specified in writing. That's what I did. After a long time last November, we received the Minister's reply with the principle of ensuring that the copy of the data from the Croatian Land Book will be allowed, but with the additional requirement that we define or provide details on specific land-book entries, if the Croatian Court runs the whole cadastral municipality in one piece, and part of this is located in Slovenia. The Ministry, in cooperation with the District Court in Cyprus, has prepared all the necessary cadastral data. It's a pretty big job. This was forwarded to the Croatian side in early February this year. At this time to this day, we have repeatedly hurled an answer on various occasions, the position of the Croatian side, but to this day, unfortunately, we have not received it. Thus, it will be one of these talks at a meeting with the Croatian minister, first from March last year, which will take place on Friday this week. At the same time, let me say that we have examined whether there is such a problem elsewhere, and we have found that there is something similar in the area of the Crnomelj District Court, but not elsewhere. So I hope that after this meeting this problem will be clarified or that we will at least know whether we can go this way, if not, the only way to set up a new land book.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u233	Thanks again for the word. Dear Minister, I thank you for your answer regarding the land book that I have set for you as the first and you have answered as the second question. I hope that you will continue this work and, above all, will be the initiators of a solution to this problem as soon as possible. On the other hand, as regards the second question that I have raised with regard to judicial backlogs, and also because you yourself have confirmed that a longer answer to this topic would probably be needed, and also in view of the fact that you presented it yourself at the press conference, with regard to judicial statistics for 2002, where over half a million outstanding cases still remain, I would suggest that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, based on Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to hold a discussion on the answer at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u235	Like I said before, it would be worth saying a lot of things about it. One is an indication of 500,000 pending cases. 500,000 is annual, 530, 540,000, more or less stable. Inside it belongs to things that are being solved. Inside all the Slovenian courts - there are a number of courts, there are more and more who are currently solving matters - there is something beyond doubt about those who have problems. I have already mentioned a number of types of issues in which we are seeing significant problems, as well as some of the measures we are taking in this direction. In short, it is a question that needs to be addressed in a broken-down manner. It is also a fact that, for the first time, the Slovenian courts are in control of the current situation; that where there are major setbacks, this is due to a poor situation in the past. Secondly, it is an obvious situation that the situation from year to year is improving, though - I say this here too - that no one will say that I say only one side - with the current situation fully in all courts we cannot yet be satisfied. So there are many reasons why we should continue all efforts and even intensify them. This is briefly said that picture of the situation in the court. In short, the situation is improving, but it is not enough to be fully satisfied, but I can say this in this context right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u236	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Dorian Marcic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question of the matter, the State Assembly will decide at the next meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance will be raised by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Welcome, representatives, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We citizens of Slovenia have been raising funds for the oncology institute for many years. This was in a way: instead of a wreath on a grave, instead of a flower or wax on some other occasion; in short, 20 or 30 years were spent for this purpose and also collected money. I wonder, "Where is this money now in which account?" Where'd he go, who hit him? About one month ago, we discussed the guarantee law for the construction of the Institute, because there is no need for money available in the budget, so you say. So the state is building on credit. Finally, in that referendum on railways in the explanatory memorandum, it was written that by means of savings, if the referendum fails, we would build, I don't know, three oncological institutes - or six whole, my colleague says - a pediatric clinic and something else. I beg your pardon: where is this money? What is it used for? Who's got it, or maybe it's in a box and the key's lost? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u239	Your Honor. When I was aware of your question, of course, I obtained information for my term of office. It should be said that funds for the cancer institute donated by natural and legal persons are donated directly to the oncological institute as a legal person. They shall not be drawn up in any of the Government's paragraphs, the Ministry of Health and neither shall they be available or allocated to any of the two institutions. However, we have gained a sense of how much of this funding has been collected in the last two, three years - of course directly from the Cancer Institute. In 2001: 9 million, I round, in 2002: 9 million, this year, in the current course of 10 million. This was unintended money that could be used for various purposes. Assigned grants at this time: in 2001 1 million and a half, in 2002 15 million, in 2003 10 million. In addition, Mercator's contribution to demanding equipment of 84 million should be added. The oncological institute's fund-raising over the entire period, in the decade of disposal, planning and also some adaptations, shall include in the scope of the funds it otherwise has for the renewal of equipment in the work itself financed by depreciation. We don't have any other information on this money. We are convinced that, in terms of the oncological master, this money has been used by the Institute to rebuild spent equipment, but of course the oncology institute can itself submit a report for all the years. You mentioned the period of the thirties of the previous country. Surely this report can also be obtained, and if you want, we can also obtain it. We certainly did not understand the scope of your question at this stage that you would intervene for the entire period.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u241	This is exactly what I wanted to get because it was a very long time and in the previous one it was for the construction of a new oncology institute. That's the truth. In fact, the second part of the question relates to this: Why did the State not provide its budget obligations to the appropriate extent so that these funds donated by the citizens would be earmarked for what they have given? But obviously there were running costs of doing business, which, of course, thank God the institute was running, but that's how it starts to work. This means that the State has actually withdrawn with a smaller share, of course at the expense of these benefits, or donated citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u243	I'd like to comment for a moment. I hardly know a country that, in particular in the healthcare system, does not need additional resources for known reasons, which we often discuss and which we will also discuss in the preparation of future legislation, and would not also collect donations from institutions and individuals who wish to make their money available to the public for the purpose of health through this deliberate decision. We would even - I will say narrowly, resorially - even be pleased if the state would take this more generously in tax reliefs to allow individual institutions to implement, use their will, for what they want to spend more money. However, this is the area of others who regulate it. I just want to say that a donation doesn't mean the state is withdrawing. We will have much more debate on the extent to which the state can manage, and we want the state and the public system to be able to do more, but nevertheless there will always be something else in the area of health for which citizens and institutions and we will wish - we will also contribute separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u244	Thank you very much. You asked the Minister of Finance a second question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u245	Yes, I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, a second question. Surely, Mr. Minister, you know the malts of craftsmen in which craftsmen have provided their pension insurance since 1956. The fund operated until 1090 under a single pension scheme in a documentary manner. So, as a good master, this fund in 1990 found that it did not provide insurance companies with sufficient security for a long time. Therefore, within the framework of the current system, it has already begun to switch to the investment system and, in this context, has also provided the necessary or certain amount of reservations that are also required by law. The problem of the craftsmen's fund was legally resolved in 1999 by a new law on pension and disability insurance. Thus, the State assumed its obligations to this fund before 1983. Well, the expectations of the Fund have failed, as the country has not provided the necessary resources since the law was adopted. This means, of course, that the fund cannot generate sufficient amounts of necessary reservations. This can also be applied to the risks of the Fund and its insurers. According to the information I received, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has not paid any money in these years. These commitments certainly amount to more than 2 billion. I ask you, Mr Minister: Why have you not fulfilled these obligations to the craftsmen's fund? This does not only cause financial damage, but also reduces the trust of insurers and potential insurers. Why aren't you paying monthly bills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Minister Dr. Dusan Maramor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u247	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to the SOP, the real fund to craftsmen, we have carried out a thorough business review which has shown that the main problem of the fund is that it does not have adequate mathematical provisions so that it can obtain permission to carry out additional pension insurance. As regards the payment of the State's obligation, there is a disagreement between the Fund and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs regarding the level of these obligations. In the view of both ministries, the State's obligation is half below the amount required by the Fund. It was found that the Fund’s financial situation was such that even if the State paid its statutory obligation, including if it paid it at the level required by the Fund, would not be sufficient for the actuarial approval of the pension plan, which is a condition for carrying out additional pension insurance, the question of the purpose of such a solution was therefore raised. The normal functioning of the Fund would require its comprehensive recovery, which we estimate could only be done within the framework of a proposal prepared by the Capital Company, which provides that the craftsmen's fund is being transformed into a mutual pension fund operating under the auspices of the Capital Society, managed by an insurance company whose founder would be the Capital Society. Such a decision should be taken by the authorities of the Fund, which have rejected this possibility; however, the State has no influence on them since the fund is a subject of private law. Discussions were also held within the Ministry of Finance on different solutions - the possibility of transferring retired insurers, those subject to the State's obligation, to the Capital Society. However, as far as this option is concerned, the representatives of the Fund have not shown adequate willingness to agree or their requirements exceed their legal rights to such a certain amount of funds. I would like to point out that the Government wanted to provide a comprehensive solution to this situation, which is a prerequisite for the full participation of the fund of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, which, as has already been said, has not been the case so far. If there is no further willingness to cooperate with the SOP, the government will have no other option, of course because we have no influence in the SOP, rather than talking to the SOP only about the amount of funds covered by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and in the context of the ongoing judicial proceedings. It follows from the above that in this case the problem of the SOP due to the problem of actuarial confirmation of the pension plan will not be resolved because of these insufficient mathematical provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u249	Mr. Minister, your statement regarding full cooperation in this is essentially cynical. You are demanding some full cooperation, but the country is bound for practically almost 3 billion. Fill out the legal obligations, and this risk will decrease - you know, this is an obligation of the state - and then you talk about other things. Otherwise, we have institutions to monitor the obligations that such a fund must fulfil in order to ensure the security of investment or insurance. The state has an obligation to do so, and this is clearly stated in the law. It was also decided that the obligations were indisputable; in one part they were also determined, which were indisputable, because the State was delaying and by means of disputes which it had artificially invested, it was delaying payments. Therefore, the obligation is indisputable - pay out and you will thereby minimise the risk of this fund operating in the previous system of socialism, where craftsmen were evicted from normal insurance systems. That's what the debate is about, you know. Not to say they're not ready. This statement is not cynical. But I can tell you, I quote Dr. Drnovsk's statement a year ago. This question was raised a year ago. The government is actively involved in this issue and has recently adopted a complex scheme to address this issue. The liability of the craft fund has been assumed by the Capital Fund and the State has provided adequate assets as a counterweight to the capital fund to assume this obligation. So this question is solved according to our assessment." [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Shit, it's not solved! [[...]] This is so solved as the reform of Kebro, he virtually writes something and something in the public does not, but he thinks that the health problem in Slovenia is solved. It's not! If you write a paper, it has not yet been resolved; the obligation has to be paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko will ask the Minister for Culture and the Secretary-General of the Government the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u251	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. I'm giving up the question to the Minister of Culture because she's not present, and I'm just going to put it in the next session. I'd like to ask Mr. Bandle a question. In 1997, a law on public procurement was adopted, which determined to all public fund managers how investment or development funds could be used. The Court of Auditors, which is the Supreme Audit Institution of this State, reviewed the state budget as a whole and the budgets of all ministries each year on an official basis. In most of the audits carried out, there were very large irregularities in the use of public funds in procurement procedures. For a number of audits, a negative opinion was issued. However, there are also cases where opinions were not even possible to be delivered. A negative opinion has recently been issued even on response reports. As public funds are being used and paid past the law on public procurement and other rules and rules, it is reasonable to think that corruption can also be involved in such business. Despite poor audit opinions in individual ministries and government offices and services, there is no mention of any valuable measures either by ministers or by the government or by its Anti-Corruption Office or by the Public Procurement Office or by the Competition Office, and the Court of Auditors was indecisive. You probably still stick to the principle that if the procedure is not initiated, there is no problem. I wonder: Why has the government, despite the devastating findings of the Court of Auditors so far, failed to act in accordance with the legislation and powers it has, and demanded political and professional, subjective and objective responsibility? Why did the government not act even when the Court of Auditors clearly stated that the auditor was unable to submit authentic documents and could not deliver an opinion? Why did the government fail to act even when the Court of Auditors issued a negative opinion on the auditor’s response report because the auditor provided unreliable or false information? Why did neither the Anti-Corruption Office nor the Public Procurement Office nor the other preventive and repressive authorities in this country act?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Mirko Bandelj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u253	Yes, thank you very much for that question. I will try to answer as much as I can, of course, out of my jurisdiction. The fact is that in Slovenia we have a law on public procurement, for which we all, including the opposition Members, find that it is not the best. After all, we also have the amendment of the law now in the parliamentary process, and we already know that this law will need to be reformed even more fully. In accordance with European rules, too. This law was formed relatively quickly. For this country, it was a significant novelty at the time and, of course, in terms of its implementation, there are major problems in practice, particularly in the absence of a definition of low-value procurement areas. However, I must say that I do not agree with your assessment that there are very large irregularities in this area. The Court of Auditors, of course, finds these irregularities, many of them. Unquestionably, any such irregularity must be critically judged, but not every irregularity in public procurement procedures is also a crime, corruption or anything like that, or even does not in itself mean that it is in itself a suspicion that someone has deliberately violated the rules of public procurement, in order to obtain unjustifiable wealth for himself or anyone else. Even though the Court's reports are not in themselves intended to prosecute, if I say so, they are intended primarily to revise the accounts, they are intended to enforce the rules, improve the way in which the business is conducted, and even in cases where it is occurring, and this often happens, to irregularity in terms of procedures, the Court of Auditors only finds that the provider has chosen the most favourable, cheapest operator, the cheapest order to break this and that regulation or other act. Even in this case, it would be difficult to speak even if the Court of Auditors had determined the dimension of the error, it would be difficult to say that it is always a matter of injury or of mismanagement of budgetary resources. Of course, I also have to say that the government and all ministries are very seriously considering the findings of the Court of Auditors, that many measures have been taken to improve practice, including many measures to improve normative activities in this area. Thus, more or less today, all budgetary users are also equipped with internal regulations, which also rule out how to deal with those segments where legislation is sometimes overly relaxed, and much has been done in the area of detection and prevention of such infringements. In particular, this applies to budgetary control, or control of budgetary inspection, by the Ministry of Finance. By law, we have also been carrying out the so-called internal audit control for the past two years and, of course, we are also carrying out the results of these checks into practice. So far, at least I don't know the case, no criminal proceedings have been initiated. However, I know that the Court of Auditors, as well as individual budgetary consumers, report relevant reports to law enforcement authorities, where, of course, the procedure goes forward, because it is the responsibility of the other authorities and not the authorities that carry out these orders or the chairpersons of those bodies. But as it is said, in the vast majority of cases it is simple to make professional mistakes in a relatively complex and incomplete public procurement system. You also mentioned a specific case, a forgery of the Charter or something like that, if there is such a thing, of course we will take this very seriously and also in this case find or try to find out and also sanction offenders, in so far as there is indeed subjective responsibility and guilt for the mistakes made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u254	Thank you, Secretary General. Comrade Tanko, would you like an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u255	Look, these statements of yours, I don't think they have any real basis in the documents that are available to us. I have before me a report on the work of the Court of Auditors for 2002, a completely new document issued on 16 April of this year, pages 38 and 39. I will only read some major violations: the invitation to tender was not published in the Official Journal; the failure to comply with the decision of the State Audit Commission, by which the invitation to tender was fully or partially withdrawn; the legal conditions for the award of the contract were not met without a contract; the user did not have a legal basis; he took responsibility which was not planned in the budget; and he used budgetary resources for the payment of goods which had not been delivered at all. That's what it says, it says in "fictional obligations" collar. Improper prices, irregular discounts, miscalculated quantities, incorrect sums and multiplications, unworthy documents. In short, the very specific illegalities. Failure to comply with the Public Procurement Act is an individual's decision, as a large proportion of budget users take this Public Procurement Act into account in high and low values. And here we even have cases where employees get a big order for high values. If the Government and the Prime Minister fail to act and do not propose to replace either the Minister or the Secretary or other important professional interest, an important signal has been given to the public administration and to all authorities, repressive and preventive, how to act. And a clear signal to citizens that they should not expect anything from these authorities. The symbol also has meaning for the renaming of the Anti-Corruption Office to the Ethics and Integrity Commission, according to the home court to the Honorable Court, for which the rules are likely to be written by the most successful white collars. I think these symbolic bodies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u256	Please, if you'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u257	We probably don't need things in this country. However, we need specific activities, concrete actions and concrete procedures in the cases referred to by the Court of Auditors. These documents given by the Court of Auditors are not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u258	My friend Tanko, it's time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u259	for deposit, but a basis for action. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Secretary-General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u261	Another sentence is two, because I find it difficult to answer the obvious, which is not concrete. That's why I can't even know about them, and maybe even indirect ministries about them are what [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Can you give me your word, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u262	Mr. Bajuk, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u263	In short, I find it very difficult to comment on the findings that are not attributed to persons, and I say that there may have been some kind of procedure around this, such as you, Mr Tanko, demand, set in motion, but for him, I apologize, I don't know. I can promise you that I will read the pages you mentioned separately and also try to find out what they refer to. Nevertheless, I must say that I reject the thesis that any mistake is due to someone's conscious decision to find out something beyond the rule. It is simply an assessment of the assessment, an expert opinion, where there are also errors in these expert judgements, simply because of the fact that the rules in this area are incomplete. Therefore, it seems to me to attribute to each error something that is contrary to the principle of auditing, something that is contrary to the system of accounting control itself. Once again, the government and the ministries certainly act on such reports by the Court of Auditors, take measures that improve standards, improve procedures and also change the human resources structure of people who decide on public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u264	Thank you for your answer. The next question will be to the Minister Procedural? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u265	There is no way I can be satisfied with this answer. The Court of Auditors’ opinions are final, the conclusions are final, no complaint. This is said to be a likely task for the authorities responsible for this - and the government is one of those who should take these matters forward. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure [[I think the second paragraph is Article 246.]] to discuss the Secretary-General's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u266	Thank you. This procedural proposal will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are now moving on to the next Member to raise the question of a Member of Parliament to the Minister for Regional Development, Mrs Zdenki Kovac. Mr. Janez Sponik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u267	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs Kovaceva has been sitting here very persistently all afternoon listening to us. I am the only one who has decided to ask her a question from the Member States, which is related to the financing of Slovenian developments and other projects from the European funds. According to the Commission's regular progress report for 2002 in Slovenia, preparations for the implementation of the Structural and Cohesion Fund are under way. I also have before me a report prepared by or coordinated by the Minister is called the 2003 Regional Development Report. This report will be dealt with shortly by the government and will then come to the National Assembly, and I have this privilege to see it as a government Member. In this report, you state that in the implementation of, for example, Phare programmes, Slovenia is also engaged in further institutional construction for the implementation of structural funds this year. It is very important that in the form of accession aid, a comprehensive preparation of projects is premeditated. We need to have projects, the drawers need to be full of projects. In this report, you mention that the absorption of available resources depends, inter alia, on the absorption capacity of the beneficiaries. Slovenia had to draw up a single programming document 2004-2006 to draw up the European Structural Funds, which, in coordination with the European Commission, if I have the right information, will acquire the status of an international treaty and will therefore be bound by it. Coordination, part of this document, is expected to be completed by the end of the year, the submission will begin in hot July. So, what projects is it or will the government propose to co-finance during this period? How will potential users be invited and participate? How were the priorities set? Have these priorities been addressed by the National Assembly? How is human resources education going? Because it is known that for quality-prepared projects, this should be a communal area, then economic, regional development, technological development, is a very important quality preparation of these projects. The European Union's acquisition of funds is therefore only a first step. For such funds must be used to achieve the objective of the project by means of their assistance. Madam Minister, I am confident that you will support the expectations of the National Assembly, so that it will also be fully aware of the content of this single programme document, which it has set for the next three years, including four priorities on which Slovenia will draw money from European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u268	Thank you for the question. I give the floor to Minister Zdenka Kovac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u269	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member and, of course, all other Members and colleagues. Thank you for that question. The fact is that we are indeed in the full course of preparing to draw on European structural policy, both in the programmatic sense and in the institutional setting of the way these programmes are implemented. First of all, Slovenia, the Slovenian Government, in accordance with the international rules in force in the European Union, submitted a draft single programming document to the European Commission in March. For this document is made truly in terms of an international commitment, but of course it is based on negotiations between the European Commission and the individual recipient country. Slovenia has received a green light for the start of negotiations, which means that the European Commission has assessed this document as mature for the start of negotiations and we are officially starting negotiations with the arrival of the Presidents of the European Commission in Ljubljana. At the same time, of course, when we submitted a single programming document, only the continuation of the preparation did not stop, because the programming document is only a first step. The second step is the preparation of the so-called programme complement, where implementation methods are further processed, or which costs, which investments will be supported within development priorities and, of course, what the results of these investments will be expected. This programme complement is now in the final phase of cross-cutting coordination and will, in fact, be prepared before 25.7.2003, so that we will have the next phase practically processed by the time the negotiators arrive for the start of negotiations with a single programme document. Of course, if any substantial changes were to take place in the context of the negotiations, which we do not expect in the light of the Commission's first responses, then, of course, the programme complement should, as a consequence, be partly complemented. Now, what does this single programming document actually mean?? It foresees that the European Structural Funds will be geared towards co-financing three priorities: promoting competitiveness and entrepreneurship, promoting human resource development and employment and developing economic infrastructure. This was based on the priorities of the national development programme and on the priorities of the regional development programmes adopted and, of course, on the greatest shortcomings identified, which, I will say, show international comparisons on the position of Slovenia. These, of course, say that we are relatively high or at least on average in the field of social development, that we are significantly lagging behind in the area of competitiveness of the economy and, of course, in all the related activities that enable this competitiveness. Among other things, let me stress the extremely low percentage of adults involved in education, which, for example, also tells us our picture. All priorities follow the same objective: raising added value or increasing the competitiveness of the economy and creating new jobs. Together, it will be earmarked for investments in this three-year period, I am talking about European and domestic resources, 90 billion grants and around 20 billion import refunds, which will, of course, be implemented in cooperation with the international development banks, in particular in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, including in support of those carriers that will report their projects to the companies and will, of course, have to add their share to the financing. On the basis of the three priorities we have set, it has been difficult to coordinate on what measures we are going to go to now, as these measures need to be narrowed down by a relatively modest amount of resources. In the end, we landed at three storeys of projects or measures. First priority first. This is about promoting the business sector of competitiveness. This is about supporting projects that will strengthen the innovative environment. This is actually about, I will say, projects that are the continuation of what already has been adopted in Slovenia and are already giving birth to the first results so that there is also no fear that there would be not enough projects available, but at the same time the most active impact on the growth of the economy. I'm sorry. I'll be a minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u270	Madam Minister, you will have two more minutes at your disposal because Mr Podobnik will want an additional explanation - we will give you a new time. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u271	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. The question is or this area is really very complex and in 5 minutes it is difficult technically to say much about this thing. I would therefore like to touch on one of the complementary issues that I have mentioned and is typically ours, Parliamentary. Indeed, the government is strong when it has a parliamentary mandate in the negotiations. And when it is difficult, the government must rely on Parliament, otherwise it has problems in politics. It's a golden rule. When we negotiated for entry into the European Union, we in Slovenia developed an excellent model of continuous verification and mandate-giving to our negotiators through the Foreign Policy Committee. And all of these topics included other committees and committees of the National Assembly. In preparing such an important document as a single programming document, I have heard something new today that programme supplements are being prepared now, and Parliament has somehow been excluded or we have not talked about it here, in our procedure. And if my interpretation is correct that the status of this document will essentially be the status of an international treaty, it will be binding, then it seems to me that the government has made a mistake and must come to Parliament. This will not be a classic international treaty, because if it were, we should already have the mandate of the Foreign Policy Committee in the first step. I would ask, Madam Minister, if you check: what will be the real status of this document? And find ways together to come with this content to the National Assembly. Because you narrowed down the priorities because you had to. Why did we narrow them down? Because there's not enough money, especially. But when you're alive, you take someone. I don't know, I have the impression that our fellow Members and colleagues know this area quite poorly. The priorities are narrow and some will be affected, and this will be a political debate on the subject. So I am taking the initiative to try to find a way for the government to come to Parliament with this topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u273	Thank you very much. As you said, it is very difficult, in fact, to present this broad range of everything that will be supported in five minutes. But now I'm going to really focus on what was the question. It is true that we have not come formally to Parliament. It is also true that we have presented the programming document in that first design, which is not a final design, because the matter of negotiating with the European Commission will also be presented to some of the parliamentary groups, particularly the coalition's parliamentary groups, and there are quite a few suggestions, suggestions on why and how. Secondly, we have had a wide range of presentations in all Slovenian regions in accordance with the rules applicable in the area of the introduction of a single programming document, where all representatives of the National Assembly have been invited. We also had a short presentation on the state council and we had presentations with all those partners who will be active partners in the implementation, and these are mainly partners from the economy. We have also presented it to representatives of the municipalities or communities, so that the debate on this document has so far been very broad. It is now preparing a programme complement and it will complement what will be more specific about what is actually going on with this document. Of course, it is entirely possible that in the early autumn, as soon as this programme is complete, we will also present this in individual committees in Parliament. However, as binding as this is, it is true that this will not be a contract to write this down, but in these rules of implementation of structural policy it is considered that the document is an agreement between the Commission and each country as to how they will achieve the development objectives in each country. And what is written there will, of course, need to be implemented consistently, a accompanying body, which will be accompanied by realisations, but is the so-called "monitoring committee" or supervisory body composed by representatives of both the domestic government and non-governmental organisations and, of course, representatives of the European Commission. In fact, this body will be the one that will then be established on an annual basis this autumn, and this body will then, on an annual basis, monitor the realities of this document. It also allowed or denied possible changes between individual, less priorities, more between individual actions. But everything else will have to be carried out consistently, as has been written, and of course the results, either written or expected results, will be measured right through this document, so of course this is a very, very difficult commitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Economy a question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I do not see the Minister or the Minister to whom I would like to ask the question, but I will say this that Dr. Rupel is to me on my question that has been said: Why do some Slovenian embassies not follow the traditional custom of attending national festivities or performing receptions or singing the Slovenian anthem and a brief speech by the ambassador? While he tells me in answer that this is not in practice in Europe, but this is not my experience, but I will check it out. The second question was addressed to the Minister of Economy, which is the following. On 15 May this year, the European Court of Justice decided that the governments of the European Union, after the privatisation of companies, do not have the power to control such companies, such as through specific laws, complex articles in the statutes of the company or in relation to gold shares. I know he's not here. And he says - this court has warned that some countries, such as Spain, Great Britain, France, Italy, have these problems and will have to solve them. My question is: What does the Slovenian state intend to do, because we also have a lot of such situations through funds and so on and so forth? In what way will this be settled, and when? At present, this court, the European Court of Justice, does not include candidate countries, but we can count on this coming soon when we are in the European Union. Thank you very much. And please answer me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u276	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Dr Bernik, the Minister of Economic Affairs, who in advance apologized for today, is obliged to provide a written reply and you can, if you wish to have an answer at the meeting of the National Assembly, state that you wish to have a public reply at the next meeting. But if you are satisfied with the written, it is your duty to convey it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u277	I'd rather have an answer here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u278	Then you declare that you would like the Minister of Economic Affairs to answer in public at the next meeting the question you have asked today. Thank you very much. Mr Aloyz Sok will ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Education Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u279	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, fellow Members and Members. I would like to ask questions, first of all, to the Minister of Justice. Look, a good month ago, with great publicity in the Slovenian public, the Slovenian public was able to know that the court in Gornja Radgona conditionally condemned the Radgon dean because one of the students at the hour of verouka took a slap. This matter was very receptive in public. It didn't take a good month, and it happened, you could say, that heinous murder in Chestnut. If at least half of what the media wrote was an unprecedented delinquent and four minors were involved, not to mention the affair that occurred before in Gorenjska, when minors, school-bound children, tortured domestic animals. So I'm wondering, what is the position of the entire government and you as a department minister? Is it not given by such and similar judgments or judgments on behalf of the people a kind of silence to those young vandals that are increasing and that are actually causing more and more problems? So, I understand that this verdict is in court in Gornja Radgona, but you will say that the courts are independent and they really are that the essence was given to the slapper - not to the dean himself, some of them were, of course, thrilled at this judgment of the court, but actually slapping on those who are engaged in this country with upbringing. Accordingly, I would now like to continue and ask the Minister of Education a further question. See - something about this already discussed by colleague Jerovšek today - relations in our primary schools and in secondary schools are getting worse. More and more schools need to actually hire security guards to calm down these certain school breakers, who then, for state money, somehow maintain order and peace for taxpayers’ money. If I connect with that again; but these children today know only what their rights are, and very little are aware of what their duties are. You may resent me, too, but I think this school system has actually helped build your ministry all the time. Today, of course, the question has arisen, and I am asking you: What are you going to do to make these things turn around in our primary and secondary schools? Indeed, the result of this inadmissibility of certain minors is that many prospective school staffs leave school, that mainly primary school groups become women's collectives, that men from the education process withdraw, somehow leave it to women. If they are already at school, they become more or less principals and more interested in local policy than in school - at least in the area where I come from, this trend is detected in this way. So, Minister Gaber: How can we curb this growing violence in our primary and secondary schools? Does the government think about it? What are you going to propose as a secretary to do in this area? The problem is growing, day in and day out. This is also shown by the negative phenomena that occur in our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u280	Thank you very much. By order of the questions asked. First, I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Ivan Biszak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u281	Madam Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! You mentioned two events in your question. One is a disgusting murder in Scotland recently. It is certainly an act worth judging, of all condemnation. It's hard enough to find a hard enough word for that, so I'm not gonna be looking for them here, that's enough. The second is the judgment of a court in Gornja Radgona, which is not yet competent. You suppose correctly, I will not comment on it for at least two reasons. The first is because I don't know the matter in a way that I can look into the file. Secondly, what is more important is that, of course, as a representative of the executive branch, I do not want to comment on the decisions of the judiciary, at least not in this role. What is the problem or what I do not understand is the direct link between these two events. I'm sorry, I can't see. I believe that the judiciary, by its criminal decisions as defined in our criminal code, does not in any way support any hooliganism. This may be the case when a possible questionable exoneration judgment arises. Thus, I do not see that the judiciary, by any decision, would support or encourage acts such as those committed in Scotland. And if someone gets that impression, I think he's confused. I could say so much about this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Would you like the Minister to complete his answer, Mr. Sok? No, no, no. It is better that in order to now, if you want Minister Bizjak to complete the answer - let us finish the first question. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u283	Thank you very much. I expected this answer from you in this direction, and I thought it would be good for someone to draw attention to this matter in this National Assembly. You say you don't see a direct connection. There is no direct link, but if the educator, whoever is in court, is not yet legally competent, but is convicted of misbehavior and neglect of a minor, because he has defiled the student who was perjuring him, then such a verdict, which is then also widely publicized by the media, is indeed a silence, Mr Minister, for such conduct. Then these little vandals know that no one can hurt them, and that they can act like that forever, they can do what they want. In fact, I don't see -- maybe I'm wrong -- direct connections, but it's a negative message through the public. You're not the only one responsible for this. The whole government will have to do something about it. Because violence in our primary schools, high schools, on the streets is rising and we will have to stop it in some way. That was the point of my question, of my proposal, of my message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u285	Well, I said I don't see the logical connection between these two cases, and this complementary question proves this fact. In fact, I think it is clear - without commenting on a concrete case - that violence in education is not a solution and that violence must be said no, even in this area. Without interfering with my colleague's department, that's my firm conviction. That's why I don't really see the logical connection between the events you're talking about. Once again, I say that there will be no doubt: the act in Chestnut, this crime, but all condemnation is worth it. From here on out, looking for connections now would be less the question of facts, more the question of philosophical and other thinking, so I would end up here.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u286	Thank you very much. To answer the second question, please the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Slavko Gabra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u287	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Sok raised a question that is a relevant issue. This is a question of violence, I would hope to say, not only at the school premises, but he himself cited the most worrying example of violence that has occurred outside the school; it happened if I said so in your words, on the street or in some way in a public place. This is a question worth considering together, and we will have to work together to reduce it. And the worst service we can do is defend any form of violence. Also calls after violent reactions within the educational process that begin with the first slap, but end up not knowing where, they are, in my opinion - and here I share the conviction of my colleague Bisjak - the solution. Because they're not a solution, the problem is so big. At the Ministry within a mixed group of directors, experts on these issues and people from our ministry, we are preparing a new school order - if I say in a language that is understandable to us all. In the framework of this school schedule, we have recently had a multi-year debate in the previous week, in which I myself participated, and in it we have looked above all for ways to help, in combination with other rules, in combination with ensuring the conditions for work in the school system, to increase the interest of young people in this fundamental process of creating human personality, omika, in short, and acquiring knowledge. This problem is felt in the school system - how this integral power of the system to increase; how to make the substance interesting enough, how to create the climate within the class, which will be that minority - because we probably both agree that it is a minority - which at the edge is causing great problems and also interferes with the process itself, has prevented it from knowing that it does not belong to school spaces. The school has been dealing with this issue for some time now, and it will obviously continue to do so. But make no mistake: the school itself cannot solve this problem. For the children come not from the school home, but first are ours, each of us, and most of them are from here to school. And the most problematic, says all the profession, is not particularly problematic because the school made them troublesome, but because we canceled because we couldn't take care of our child so that he wouldn't do these things at school. I admit that school can't solve this problem many times, but I stress that it won't. Therefore, the patient debate on this - such as it has been in this House, some of you will remember, but we were not very much here when young people from all over Slovenia discussed it - such a debate, a bunch of these debates, a patient approach, correcting the rules, from the school order to the evaluation process until, I don't know, improving the conditions, including raising awareness of tolerance, citizenship and other affiliations, all of this gives some hope that there will be fewer problems of this kind; they have not been put away and we would bet too much if we were doing these illusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u289	I fully agree with you, Minister. There will be a great deal of emphasis on training for values. And that is, of course, the responsibility of all of us in this country. Of course, parents are responsible for the upbringing of their children, and of course also the institutions to which parents leave their children. Well, that's all I'd like to say is there's no misunderstanding. That no one would think that New Slovenia advocates slapping in schools. Absolutely not. But I can't agree that slapping means cruel violence and neglecting a minor. This is, of course, a matter that goes to a different extreme and will need to be considered from here on out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u291	Thank you. Look, I'm qualified for slapping, as far as the field of justice is concerned, not thematic, not my field. I don't know much about that. But I do know that violence calls for violence. And that violence doesn't bring any good, and I'm willing to defend it at one point alone. When it comes to serving another’s life, when it seriously endangers an entity, a human existence, then someone is obliged to oppose it, even by preventing it. That's some, I think, some meaningful approach. But I agree with you. We have to deal with values, by how much values, what values are produced within the school system, the whole learning process. But please, if we're trying to understand two things. There are a few ways to do this. One is the general climate in school, the other is the example of the teacher and the third, which we usually forget, is the substance itself. The substance is bound by values. If we give her time, if we create a calm, reasonable atmosphere in school, if we don't interfere too much with this process from the outside, then we get a climate that makes it easier for parents to get involved if they take their share of the responsibility, and then we get, and a lot of schools are such, very good atmosphere and such an atmosphere that leads most forward, on the right path. I say that's the way it is in our system. How to take care of slaves is and remains a big question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In this late hour, there are few of us, in fact, and if you continue where Minister Gaber ended up, the edges will have to be taken care of. What I've been talking about in this House for the past seven years is not a marginal, but about 60% of the Republic of Slovenia and about 50% of the population live in these areas. Perhaps it would be better if I referred my question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in fact, to the whole government, the Prime Minister or at least a part of the ministers. That is why this part of this title will also be addressed to the Minister of Finance, although I will specifically ask him a question concerning the financing of municipalities, nevertheless. European regional policy is based on financial solidarity. Slovenia does not have a regional policy in my opinion; it does not, however, because the differences are increasing. More than 35% of the European Union's budget is intended to help less developed regions. Such an approach, as the European Union has, is also beneficial for recipients of aid and is useful for those who contribute, since businesses in these areas have a profit and thus the European Union is becoming increasingly competitive in the world. The first objective should be to define territorially, as is the case in the European Union, because more than two-thirds of the Structural Funds' funds are intended to reduce differences, underlined by thickness and in capital letters written - to reduce differences between developed and undeveloped! The main indicators of such underdeveloped regions are: low level of investment [[which we also have]] , high unemployment rate [[which we also have]] and, of course, poor infrastructure. The second objective is also defined territorially. Its main purpose is to revitalize areas facing structural problems in industrial, rural or urban areas. The characteristic of such areas is also high unemployment. The large rate of unemployment is first and foremost characteristic of the regions to be assisted by the region so far - namely, in particular the first two objectives I have talked about. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: When will you propose a broader debate in the government on the regionalisation of employment policy, which will not be found in public works, but will focus on the first and second objectives I have presented? Mr Minister, on the basis of this debate, I propose that you take a proposal for a law to be co-signed by me since 7 September 2000 on the provision of funds to promote coherent regional development in areas with specific development problems, in the Haloz area, the Drava and Ptuj fields and the Slovenian Mountains.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Dr. Vlado Dimovski, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u295	Your Honor! On your very wide-ranging question, which concerns much more than just what it is - and you yourself have said that this issue is probably intended for the whole government or at least for the work of ministries. However, I will try to answer some of those questions, which I think I can answer in this short time. Under one, I agree with you that one of the important, if not the most important, objectives of economic or development policy is to reduce the differences between regions. In any event, analyses have shown that we have some direct and indirect instruments. Among the indirect instruments where the Institute for Economic Research estimates that it is around 80 billion over the past year, the largest part is actually dedicated to this particular area covered by the Ministry of Labour, which is the employment issue, 34 whole and several billion, it is said that almost 35 billion of these funds are actually earmarked for this content. These are so-called indirect aids or indirect instruments for regional development. The second thing I would like to say is that it is certainly one of the most important, probably the most important goal for me, is to definitely reduce the rate of unemployment. However, it is not easy when we have a high level of recession or a very high level of issues that relate to economic development mainly in Europe and especially in the exporting countries, which, of course, also affects our economic dynamics. As you know, the rate of economic growth is, according to recent estimates of the UMAR, that is to say, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, 3.1%, which is less than we expected. This also has a direct impact on investment and job creation. Particularly affected are those areas which do not otherwise have developed infrastructure. Our link is to pursue the so-called employment goals that we have also set ourselves with an active employment policy programme based on the national employment programme by 2006. Despite the acute situation, I say, despite the low economic growth rate, which is the main generator of new jobs, we still manage to keep unemployment rates somewhere around 11%, 11% when we talk about registered unemployment rates. The importance of active employment policy instruments is, of course, particularly for those regions with a high unemployment rate. The assessment of resources going through different instruments when we talk about the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is almost 60-70%, different from the different instruments intended for the north-eastern part of Slovenia, which is the most affected by the registered unemployment rate. However, let me say that the overall unemployment rate has decreased from 14.4% to around 11% if we are looking at a particular historical period and from 1997 to 2001. This is said to have only made some progress over a certain period, perhaps not as much as you would like, and perhaps not at a level as it would, of course, mean lowering the unemployment rate to a level which would of course be more appropriate than it is now. However, specific instruments aimed at regions with an average unemployment rate, depending on the average in Slovenia, are very specific for these regions, especially for young people. For example, replacing wages for first job seekers is a concrete instrument that is specific to regions or mainly intended for regions with an average unemployment rate. And these young people who are getting it this way, right now, are about 500. The other is the instruments we want young search engines to use in some way. And in this sense, there is a whole range of instruments that, in my opinion, have a direct and indirect impact on the reduction of unemployment. However, as far as your proposal is concerned, we are in the stage of preparing one, I would say an additional programme that will in particular define additional instruments to reduce youth unemployment, as we consider it to be the same target group that needs further encouragement to be included in the labour relationship. In doing so, we have also identified an appropriate budget item for 2004 which is defined as programmes for reducing youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Would you like the minister to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u297	Thank you very much. I hope that it was understandable enough that with this issue I really want to encourage the government to start discussing this issue a little more seriously. The government itself admits that the differences are increasing. The government itself has felt that in such a way regional development, where differences are increasing, we cannot drive. One is the regional development programmes, and the other is, of course, to train those areas that are terribly behind the national average to bring them to some comparable, not just data, but some comparable results in all areas. And, of course, once the measures are in place, there is no need to invent something new, as some other European countries have done in order to encourage investors to invest in these areas too, so that the state will still take care of that basic infrastructure in these demographically threatened areas. Then, of course, we can hope that people will start fishing there, that is to say, creating a new value, but for this it is necessary to make the conditions. But to be such conditions, the government is responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like an extra one? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Now the question is addressed to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u299	Of course, some later comment that there are some such Members in this National Assembly who care about major national issues, but there are some Members who care about local problems. I hope that when I talk about regional development, I am not worried about local issues, although, of course, I often say the case from the environment from which I come, because I am aware of it. In this case, when I ask the Minister of Finance the question sent is the subject of 165 municipalities, it is the topic of a million two hundred or 65 percent of the population in this country. Mr. Minister, it's not your fault you weren't there at the time when the law on the financing of municipalities was passed. The section on the financing of the tasks of municipalities is, inter alia, set out in Article 26, that the amount of additional resources received by the municipality may represent up to 70% of the funds from the envisaged scope of the measure or investment. Since I come from such areas again, and of course this 70 percent is divided by the proportion of income per capita in the municipality, by income, the proportion per capita. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know any calls that the ministries would make under such conditions that it would be set up like that. Although with a special regulation number 59 and 60, the government has committed ministries [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] to take account of the location of projects in the allocation of development incentives, so that the development incentives of the municipality and the most lagging regions in development can be increased. [[...]] Such invitations, Minister, are not, to a large extent, in the opposite direction, in such a way that those municipalities can apply to the invitations - and these are, in general, only 28 municipalities, which have approximately 800 000 inhabitants and have 36 billion over their appropriate consumption. However, all the other 165 municipalities are sub-capitalised or have a financial settlement, so-called financial settlement, up to the appropriate consumption. Minister, after all the obligations that the legislation imposes on us, you will say, because you are with us, there is really nothing left to do with the implementation of municipal programmes. That's why I'm asking you: What, then, will you do to ensure that the 26th Article of the Law on the Financing of the Congregations is respected and respected? And of course, what are you preparing for the 2004 budget rebalancing? My recommendation is that municipalities have to make some changes in this area and make certain investments. I apologize for the extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Marble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Appropriate use of congregations. Now, on the basis of the amendments to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, of which you have referred, the appropriate consumption of the municipality is defined as the extent to which the municipality can ensure the performance of constitutional and legal duties. The resources for the financing of appropriate expenditure may be those taken into account in the calculation of the eligible expenditure and the financial compensation. These incomes of the municipality are received monthly and, at the ideal realization, it can be, say, in the first half of the year, not more than 50%. To the extent appropriate spending is covered by both current expenditure and part of the investment expenditure of the municipality. The ratio between the running and investment expenditure of the municipality was, as explained to me, the amount of eligible expenditure per capita determined by the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the national budget for each individual financial year was taken into account when the change to the new Community funding system. Thus, by means of means of appropriate spending, municipalities may use their own revenues to calculate the appropriate expenditure and financial compensation and other revenue of the municipality, which are not considered to be within the scope of the appropriate expenditure for the calculation of the financial settlement, as well as the additional resources identified for each measure or investment in the national budget, also finance investment expenditure. The practice shows that adequate spending in a certain number of municipalities is not actually allocated to the financing of basic tasks imposed by the Constitution and laws in specific areas of financing of local public affairs, for example, I know cases, for financing public institutions, but are intended primarily for other tasks, including investment financing. This is also evident from the actual implementation of municipal budgets. We are preparing an analysis, which also shows the funding of municipalities from 99 to 2002, from which it will be made clear to what extent and for what purposes the municipality allocates revenue to finance appropriate spending or other revenue that is not counted among its own revenue of municipalities for the calculation of this appropriate expenditure. In order to address specific problems in specific areas, the National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the Government, adopt an increased level of appropriate consumption per capita for each financial year. The result of this increase is an increase in the calculation of the appropriate expenditure for each municipality and all municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia and, as a result, an increase in the amounts of financial compensation to those municipalities eligible for these amounts to those mentioned by you. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that, despite an additional increase in adequate spending resources, for example in 2002, for the area of culture, municipal activities and housing, the 2003 pardon, the municipalities do not allocate these funds for these purposes, but because, under the applicable legislation, they are autonomous in the allocation of their revenues for other purposes. The amount of eligible expenditure per capita for 2003 and 2004 is, of course, set by law on the implementation of the State budget. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not foresee any special changes in this area during these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u303	Mr. Secretary, I understand, but I don't think it's such a great science. If you divide 36 billion into 800,000 people, a little less than 50, I don't know, 40,000, something like that is going to happen to that population in the municipality. In those 28 congregations, which together have 36 billion over their proper consumption. I mean, you can imagine what it means to have about 40,000 more people in the congregation or not to have one. Having this largely in those congregations that are why they have so much? [[...]] Because they have so much of their own resources. Why do they have them? Because they do, the main source of funding for municipalities is 35% of the income. You know the difference per capita when we changed from 30% to 35% of the income. In the municipality of Slovenske goricai, this meant 500 tolars per capita. In one of the other congregations, this would mean 5,000 tolars. The factor was ten times. That's what I'm talking about, Minister. It is essential for the following year, when preparing the 2004 budget, to take this into account and to do something in this direction. I would ask you to try to sit down with someone else from the opposition from the areas, such areas as we come to talk about and to do something about this matter. Such a way of funding municipalities is a generator of increasing differences, and if you do not have any change, then you will be guilty of increasing these differences and the government has determined to reduce them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u305	Thank you. Just an answer. Since I became Minister, this issue has been one of the very hot issues of funding the municipalities and is constantly on my way. As I promised, this law is now practically ready and will then be referred to the debate, a new law on the financing of municipalities. Of course, I must say that it is extremely difficult to reach a consensus in this area because there are large congregations, small congregations, rich ones, those with less income. We have just drawn up a proposal and we will try to resolve it in this way, but there will probably be a very large debate on it, but it is not possible to resolve it within the budget. It is indeed necessary to make a new system law to make this funding more appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u307	Of course, given that the issue is really topical, because this problem, which is just happening, is increasing these differences that I'm talking about. I would suggest that, with regard to the reply given by the Minister, we make a broader debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u308	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of the Minister of Finance to his question, the State Assembly will decide at the meeting tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Jaša Zlbec Lukič will ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Ministers, Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, let me congratulate the opposition on having reached every Slovenian home with the TV transmissions of our meetings, where I think we are all watching and wondering how smart Members we have. The first question is addressed to the Minister of Transport, Jakob Preseknik. It is likely that my parliamentary question will seem naive and unrealistic, but there is so much traffic on the Shentvid-Medvode State Road every day that it is not possible to call it traffic. For 12 kilometres from Ljubljana to Medvod this afternoon, people need an hour, which in any case is not sustainable for 12 kilometers. For years and years, wise men have planned many different routes, and the result is one by itself. Traffic is getting slower and slower. There's a lot of elegant solutions, a lot of smart people, but nothing changes. More than brilliant contemplations, there are thousands who crawl along a snail in the morning and the same afternoon in a different direction. Thousands of drivers and passengers have no choice but to be rightly upset. The bears sent a single traffic jam. All masters and experts have a solution in store, but they're repeatedly cross-border. Thank you for answering the question and I expect concrete and immediate action. There's nothing anyone can do about ideas. This is for the Minister of the Presbyterian: When will this traffic circle of hell be resolved? Would you like to answer first?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u310	That's right. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u311	Thank you very much. This answer would be divided into two parts. So the fact is that this transport system or traffic jam on this northwestern part of Ljubljana is extremely large and I think it is currently the most attractive in the Republic of Slovenia. Resolved [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u312	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Nothing about you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u313	Good. If I've done any lapsus, I'm sorry. So it's solved in two ways. First, because we have the connection of the mountain highway to the Ljubljana ring or to the rest of the highway network in Slovenia and intensive preparatory procedures are under way, or already calls for the execution of connections or tunnels with all the parts needed at the Šentvid-Kosez section. Solving the problem of joining the mountain highway will solve this huge problem in the coming years. At the same time, the transport study which was produced in 2000 for the section you mentioned in your question is Vižmarje-Medvode or vice versa, so this transport study has shown that this section also needs to be changed from two-band to four-band and that some measures should also be regulated in Medvod. In accordance with the relevant legislation, the Ministry of Transport has already taken the initiative to draw up a national site plan for the reconstruction of this road, i.e. for the reconstruction of the two-passenger line to the four-passenger line. At the same time an important investment is being made in Medvod to solve this problem at the top of the clan, this is the construction of the Rondo in Medvod. In the coming years, the area of Šentvida, the area of connection of both roads and reconstructions and interconnections will be one large site. Therefore, it is also a particular problem to manage traffic during this intermediate period, at a time when the construction site will be. So I think the moment came when the situation would begin to settle in the field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Mr. Evil, are you satisfied or do you want to supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u315	I'm satisfied with my options. The second question, however, is addressed to Minister Biszak. Minister Bizjak was also the Ombudsman himself for many years, and you well know how serious a crime is to reduce these rights. On Thursday 12 June, Slovenia was included in the Forum Report 18. It is an institution based in Oslo that is responsible for the implementation of Article 18 - from here also the name - of the general declaration on human rights, especially freedom of religion. Forum 18 focuses mainly on violations and non-recognition of freedom in individual countries. In the report of this institution, Slovenia was associated with Turkmenistan, Belarus, Georgia and Uzbekistan. Why is that? When the Director of the Government Office for Religious Communities was Mrs Nina Čoš, the religious community in Slovenia had no problems or concerns about registration. Three years ago, he became the director of this government office, Dr. Drago Chapar. During the three years of his office’s work, he did not register one new religious community; his response was more than misplaced. But if he says that the office received nine applications for the title of a legal person under the Law on the Legal Status of Religious Communities at the time of his administration. This was of interest to at least 15 to 20 groups. None of these groups have been denied or recognised by the State. That's right, Chapar. Despite the intervention of Minister Biszak, the whole matter did not move by the hair. Worse. At the office, Chapar is undeniable. He did not think that he would grant all religious communities the status they were asking for, but he advised them to obtain legal status on the basis of registration. And to make matters even more unpleasant, it must be said that Chapar freely admitted that his office had never acted in accordance with the law on administrative procedure. Similarly, it is clear that the criteria under which the office repays 42 percent of the employer’s contributions to the six religious communities for pension protection are not recorded anywhere. And yet, the office also distributed about 300 million tolars a year under his leadership. Science is very simple. About ten years ago, the then authorities were setting up the Roman Catholic Church and the jivenomer of metal was hunted under the feet. Has the Roman Catholic Church now forgotten its bad times and boasted in the laurels of the only true Slovenian church? And finally, Director Chapar decided to turn to Lovra Sturm, who he chose without a contract. In view of the conjecture so far, it is possible to determine, without any particular prudence, which religious community will take the place in the first place, according to the wise conclusions of Lovra Šturma. Otherwise, Smurf's expertise will cost taxpayers about a million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Master Ivan Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u317	Madam Vice-President, I can only answer this question as President of the Government Commission for the resolution of the open questions of the religious communities, because this area is not within the competence of my ministry, nor am I the Chairman of the said Director, Dr Chapar. With regard to the issue of notification of the establishment of religious communities, the Commission, which I am leading, discussed on 4 June, while present members, identified very clearly that, despite the fact that the law governing the issue, namely the Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities of the Year, I think that 1977, although this law is not exactly appropriate at the present time, that it is necessary to deal with the incoming notifications at the Office and, of course, to take appropriate action, therefore to complete this consideration, because simply so important a waiting for a new law that will better regulate this area cannot be an excuse or a valid reason for nothing to happen at that time. So this position was very clear. Today, we happened to have a re-session of this commission, and at the time of the consideration of the minutes of the previous meeting, we also spoke about it and, of course, this is the same position I specifically repeated myself. That's what you can say from my town. In any case, of course, we support, namely, the Commission, including the early preparation of the new law or regulatory arrangements necessary for this purpose, either in a specific law or in sectoral laws, the more appropriate regulation of certain issues to which you have also pointed, and in this regard, the Office, as it has informed the Commission, has engaged an external institution, an institution to which you refer for drafting such a law or regulation. That's as much as I can say. As it is said, the Commission does not have any supervisory or presidential authority over the office mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Mr. Naughty, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u319	I'd just like to ask: Is it an office that has no one above it that is floating in heaven, this office for religious communities?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u321	It's a government office.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-09-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable ministers, co-workers and co-workers, I thank the Prime Minister and ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all so much and good night.
