ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u1	Please take your seats. I'm about to begin the 29th session of the National Assembly. I also ask my colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby to the main hall. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nice greetings again to all, including those who will join today’s meeting, its continuation, in the coming days, until Thursday, later. We begin the 29th regular session of the National Assembly. I shall proceed on the basis of a reference made pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of our Rules of Procedure. Before we decide on the agenda, I will inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend today due to other obligations. These are colleagues Barovic, Battelli, colleague of Cimperman and Diaci, colleague of Montenegro, colleagues of Horvat, Jakič, Juri, Kangler, Komljanjec, Kopušar. My colleague Merlo apologized for the opening of the meeting. After 3 p.m., we'll be missing Comrade Terchon. Otherwise, colleagues Peterle and Weber and a colleague of mags will be absent. Procrastination and colleague of the Possons. As I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting, I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, especially the 1st item of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, let me remind you once again that because of his employment today, he will not answer the first three opposition parliamentary questions, as usual, but will do so on Wednesday at 10 a.m. A representative of the Council of State is also invited to the 18th point and to the 31st point of the Council of Justice. Once again, I welcome everyone here. Let me inform you that in setting the agenda for today's session, I have not received any proposals for withdrawal, nor any proposals for enlargement, so that we can decide on the agenda. Before that, anyone wants to explain their vote, can I put it to the vote? Before the first vote, I will specifically ask you a favor. On behalf of all those who will hold this meeting, as you can see, the voting system, in particular the illustration of the vote, has changed slightly, including in our work and the voting. So, if you ever have an accidental mistake, please, on behalf of the Vice President, the Vice President, and on my behalf, for understanding. We'll get to the agenda. We are voting on the agenda as proposed. Are there any contracts? I heard them while it was [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u2	All I'd say is that my voting device wasn't working right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u3	I've heard your objections, even in the course of the vote, so I consider them relevant. Otherwise, I ask you to raise your hand in addition to your voice, so that I know what I am doing, so that I do not take the result of the vote into account. So, please, if everyone checks with them again to see if the voting device is okay. I have warned that some of the changes will be mainly illustrated. Is there any other objection to not being able to vote on the agenda? No, no, no. Excuse me? I understand that we can therefore vote. We decide on the agenda. Please vote. 59 present. 48 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] Thus, we have found that the agenda has been adopted. Please, colleague Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u4	Mr President, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We are familiar with the new way of electronic control of the word of Members. At this point, I would like to protest that time will now be measured by an electronic device, which means that Members' time for debate will be reduced again. Mr President, when the debate on the new rules of procedure began, you used the syntagma of Jaruzelski, which he gave at the time of the introduction of the war, "for more order and democracy". Indeed, it seems that there will be more order - democracy is less in this house every day! They attack MPs in places where your client lost the mayor's mandate, attack the mayors, threaten Members and at the same time reduce and take their word! That means now, this way that someone on this side, let's say, consciously disturb me, I won't be able to speak - and the time will run out. Mr President, we do not need to be the most modern and successful in Europe in this area. It would be more important if this country were at the forefront of economic growth, after all, in terms of government deficits. But it's the other way around. And please, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u5	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u6	that this re-enactment of time to Members who can use it in their deliberations, by removing the possibility of replicas, should be abolished. [[...]] Besides, I don't know if any bugs or anything have been installed. How do you force this electronics all the time? Very relevant questions are raised, very relevant rumours, and I am against. I mean, I have to protest against such a way of restricting the Members' word. No wonder what's going on, attacking MPs, it's no wonder.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u7	Comrade Jerovšek, may I make an explanation to your procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u8	Please stop this novelty in electronics or in this electronic monitoring with today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u9	Comrade Jerovšek, first of all - let me not forget to stress later - this is not the responsibility of the National Assembly, this decision. The decision to go with the modernisation of the work in the grand hall was taken by the College, and at the last meeting we also introduced some news to the leaders of the parliamentary groups. What is important for today's debate is that technical progress in monitoring and facilitating the work of the National Assembly has nothing to do with the rights of Members and Members, at least to shorten their time for discussion or otherwise limit their sovereignty. I'd like to assure you of that. Mag. I think we're all completely trusting Jermol on this. If I were a magician. Jermol felt that anything in your discussion was relevant in order to give an official explanation, but I will give it to him, otherwise I do not think that this is an item that should now be decided by the National Assembly and that we can move on to 1. Agenda item - Proposal for a act amending and supplementing the act on the succession of agreements between the former Yugoslav Republic of Slovenia and the Russian Federation. In doing so, let me say that for such a change in the agenda, which is not customary for us to consider one of the agenda items before the initiative of Members and Members, we have accepted the College. The draft act was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I also welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm asking, does anyone want a word explaining this act? No, no, no. Maybe Kacin's colleague, chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee? Neither do I. Two members of the group wanted to explain their views. First of all, colleague Dr. Bernik, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, followed by colleague Jerovšek on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please, Comrade Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the government. There's nothing good to say about this change, but I would point to one thing. The explanation states that the agreement between Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union will remain in force since 1965 for peaceful purposes. However, it would be good to say that someone has reviewed that agreement and that it would be good to correct or do certain things in this agreement. This is not mentioned anywhere, but it is good to know if anyone has a review of this agreement and if the government is satisfied with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek will explain his point of view. No, no, no. Then please the government, can you give any views that are connected? No, no, no. Then we'll move on to the decision. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, so that there is no discussion of this subject between colleagues and colleagues. We are moving on to the third reading, i.e. to a decision on the proposal for an act. Anyone want to explain their voice before making a decision? Please. Colleague School. Voice explanations. Procedurally. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, it seems to me, I will say, somehow unacceptable and impossible not to answer the question raised at this assembly. This is what the content of means, in fact, are the discussions on what this assembly is dedicated to, despite the fact that, of course, someone from the government could say that colleague Bernik can study this for himself. This is an unacceptable ignorance of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u13	Look at colleague Školč, I am acting in accordance with the rules of procedure adopted, and I am not saying that he is perfect, as you know, now is also the time for any matter to change if necessary. No addition was adopted in the context of the second reading, which is why there is no debate, as is the case with the rules of procedure. I asked my colleague, Dr. Bernick, if he wanted to give a word. As president of the assembly, I will not object; if the government wants a word now, I will also give it. It's just that it's my behavior that, if anyone thinks so, it's also worth the obvious later, if I didn't do what I should do, it's very strict. So first I ask the representative of the government, do you want to give an explanation? Please, a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Of course, Mr Bernik, the government has reviewed an agreement that deals with peace-keeping or cooperation on peaceful nuclear energy and fully agrees with this agreement. This agreement is without prejudice to any other government policy regarding the use of a nuclear power plant or the operation of a nuclear power plant. The agreement was also reviewed by the Ministry of the Environment, the Administration of Nuclear Safety, Dr. Silka is here with me, and the agreement fully agrees with the Slovenian positions of other countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone want to explain their voice before making a decision? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting the motion to the vote. We're voting. There's 61, 44 in favor and no one's against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted an act amending and supplementing the Act on the Succession of Agreements between the former Soviet Union and the Republic of Slovenia. That's how we ended the first item of the agenda. Please, my friend Tsukati, would you like to proceed procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u16	All I'm asking is for the technical services to check my voting device during the break, because it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u17	I ask the technical services of the National Assembly to re-examine this and all other facilities. Although I have the assurance that they are working because they are conscientiously studying the operation, let them do it again so that there are no misunderstandings. At 3 p.m., the National Assembly will continue on agenda item 2 with questions from Members and Members. As you know, the Prime Minister cannot answer questions today, he will do so on Wednesday at 10 a.m.; otherwise today, ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will answer your questions. By 3 p.m., as we proceed with Point 2, I'm suspending the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u18	Colleagues and colleagues! We are continuing today's session of the National Assembly of 2. IT'S THE END OF THE DAY, IT'S THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I inform you that I have received 32 requests for questions. The order of the questions referred is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. The first three questions raised by representatives of opposition groups will be answered by the Prime Minister on Wednesday at 10 a.m. Today, ministers and ministers will answer questions from Members and Members. In addition to the Prime Minister, who is absent today because of his obligations abroad, some ministers, or ministers, who I believe are accompanying him on this path: Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition, apologized. Franci Booth, Minister of Information Society Dr Pavel Gantar, Minister of Environment Mag. Mr Kopač, Dr. Maramor, Minister of Finance, Dr. Petrinov, Minister of Economy, Minister of Transport, Mr. Jakob Presečnik, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Rupel. I would like to inform you that, for the last time in college, we have exceptionally accepted an apology from the Prime Minister for his absence from this item on the agenda. Here, too, before the assembly, I stress that the work of the National Assembly is planned quite in advance, so that the government can determine when it has obligations and its agenda, adjust its work plan to the obligations it has in the National Assembly. Today we will begin by asking questions from Dr. Bernick. Let me say that Dr Bernik will first exercise the right to ask a question to which he did not receive an answer at the 28th meeting, and then he has two more questions to ask the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Home Affairs, so I am now giving him my word. You have the floor, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u19	Mr. Ministers, and also those ministers who are not here! I have three questions, but the two ministers I want to address are not here. That is why I will begin with the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Bohinc. You've probably seen my question, because it concerns the functioning of your administration. Many people complain when they come for various services they have the right to go nowhere, because the official who is so requested or whatever it was accepted is not there, is on leave, is on sick leave, is on study or whatever. And nothing moves until that officer gets back. I'm sure you're aware of this situation, and I'd like to know: What do you think you should do about the reform of the administration in this regard? So, Minister Petrinova is not here, and so is Mr Minister of Finance, and I ask the President of Parliament what can be done in such a case, because I have brought the question to Mrs Petrinov at the last meeting, but it has not been, and today it is not. This is said to indicate a great deal of negligence or whatever it is that we don't know it before. And I think we have such a great policy that we should write something about it in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u20	First of all, I will recall the regulation of the Rules of Procedure if the Member or Member of Parliament at today's meeting or at the meeting, when the questions raised by Members are not answered, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General, within 30 days, has to provide him with a written reply, which has also been published in our material. The Member or Member may also indicate that it persists in the oral reply and in this case raises the question at the next meeting. The problem raised by colleague Bernik is that she was also absent at the last meeting of the Minister of Economy. Again, I suppose, for justifiable reasons. That is why I explained earlier that the last time we understood the absence of the Prime Minister at the College, we asked - here too is the Secretary-General of the Government - that, given the planned work of the National Assembly, which is known to the Government, this work takes into account and responds to the work of the National Assembly at this point of the agenda. So you have a colleague, Dr. Bernik, an opportunity to ask this question in writing. You have the opportunity to ask another oral question at the next meeting, and you will certainly get the right to another three minutes. These are business options. The National Assembly does not, in its Rules of Procedure, sanction non-compliance with these obligations by government representatives. It shall respect the principle of separation of the branch of the Authority. So I hope you will notice that, as far as possible, we are trying to ensure that the government is present to answer the right questions. You have a report on questions we haven't received an answer to. So, at least on our part, we're doing it, and I think we're doing it on the part of the government, otherwise. Dr. Bernick, you will therefore be able to repeat your question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Now, first of all, I invite the Minister of the Interior to answer your question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Your Honor! On your question of whether we are aware of such practices or what we intend to do, I would say first that we know such cases, unfortunately. That we have already done a lot to keep them as small as possible and that we hope that the new legislation in the field of state administration, which we adopted last year and the regulations we adopt this year, will, however, establish such a framework so that such acts can be sanctioned and administrative backlogs reduced. However, let me tell you that the differences, in particular with regard to administrative units, are very large as regards the question of so-called administrative backlogs and that we have committed ourselves to insisting on all those administrative units that have more backlogs, to adopt a type of rehabilitation programme and to monitor their implementation. Otherwise, any citizen or citizen shall have the right to act, in the event that the administrative authority is silent or in the case of an authority in the 30s or 60s, as stipulated by the legal term, 60 days in cases where additional facts need to be found, so in the case of the administrative authority's silence, he shall have the right to appeal. Under certain conditions, it shall also have the right directly to an administrative dispute which it may initiate if no decision has been reached within the time limit provided or established by law. The specific options available to citizens in this regard are the so-called supervisory complaints or requirements for its case to be addressed by the chairpersons. They are also responsible for organising the work and also for the resolution of delays and such cases. Their training, their knowledge, and responsibilities are therefore given great attention. However, with regard to public servants and the legislative options offered by legislation in this regard, it is necessary to say that the absence of an official - and also directly to your question - I am answering - for whatever reason, whether it be maternity leave or sick leave, an accident at work, whatever, cannot be the basis for the termination of the procedure and that it continues only when the official is no longer absent. It is the responsibility of the chairman to organise the work in this way. And if he doesn't do it that way, it means he doesn't run well and organize an administrative unit. In any event, it would be appropriate to inform the competent inspection authorities, this is an administrative inspection. And we, if we receive such complaints, will act on a case-by-case basis. That's all I can say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u22	Comrade Bernik, would you like to complete the question or answer? In addition, if you want the Minister of Finance to reply to you at the next meeting, you must ask him an oral question if you want him to answer you orally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary for your answer. I wonder: Do your ministry or administrative units run a list of such cases, and how are they dealt with? It would be interesting to know: How often does it happen that people complain because they don't know where to go when someone says they're not here and come back in a month or two? I think that control should be exercised. Well, at least that's what I'd like, because if we talk about this a lot, we have such a good marriage, then it's not done because the law isn't implemented. And that's the same thing. For you, Mr. President, that's what I'd like to say. You mentioned that I should write a question and send it to a minister who isn't here, but I would go the other way - why complicate it if we could make it easy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u24	You can also give it orally. You can also ask the question orally. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u25	Yes, but I was going to say that your job should send this question to the minister and tell him to answer it. Why would I have to do that again because I'm not going anywhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. That duty or right shall be conferred on the Member or the Member to say whether a question for which he is not in the national assembly of the competent minister or minister will be asked for a written answer or an oral one. If we want an oral answer, we should now predict the question and then insist on it. Thank you very much. Your question will be referred to the competent minister or minister and will be answered. Since he did not want to supplement the answer, I can also not give Please, Minister, to complement the answer to the first question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u27	I'd like to say this to my respectable colleague Bernick. The Ministry has very precise data on so-called administrative backlogs per administrative unit. We know exactly where the backlogs are bigger, where they're not even there. There's a way to make things right. And on this basis, we also monitor and act and exercise supervision, send an administrative inspection, and thus improve the situation. However, I would certainly invite citizens and citizens to assist themselves in cases where they are stuck in such a way that their superiors tell them that their official is not and that they will have to wait for them to come back, by making a complaint directly to the chairman, because that is not the correct answer; the procedure must continue, however.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy, colleague Kelemina. Will you ask an oral question, colleague Kelemin, and ask for an oral answer or ask them to give you an answer in writing? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u29	If it's my turn, I'm sure I'll ask the question, because I think I have that right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u30	So you're going to ask for an oral response?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u31	I'll ask for an oral and a written one if I have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u32	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mobile phone operators are in grave breach of laws, and the Minister, Mr Copač, is very helpful in doing so. Explanation: On 17.12.2002, I submitted a written application to the environmental inspector from Ptuj about an illegal mobile phone station. 7.1. I have already received an answer from the inspector that an inspection procedure is in place against the offender, and within 60 days it must remove an illegally installed facility, and all penalties arising from the building law follow. So, by 7.3.2003, this illegally placed facility should have been demolished. 12.2.2003 I also asked the Minister whether the Ministry would allow the legalisation of such an illegally built facility and how citizens should safeguard their rights in such proceedings. The minister answered me, but he didn't answer those two questions, but he explained everything else. He explained that this procedure was in place and that violators would be punished. Then Simobil is 10.3. - after the Minister replied to me - he submitted a request or request for a building permit and also obtained this permit on 12.6.2003. So, he was further breaking the law. [[90 days]] Because he didn't break an illegal building. Now I ask the Minister: What is the amount of the fine for the responsible person, for the legal person, if he does not demolish the illegally built facility? What is the amount of the fine for a responsible and legal person, if the provisions of the inspector on the removal of an illegal object are not respected? Have these penalties been charged and paid in this particular case? That's what I would ask if Mr. Minister would answer me right now. I don't care if he's not here, I, Member, have the right to ask him to answer my question. Unless he is to be answered by his deputy, the Minister also has the right to place his deputy and I would like an explicit precise answer to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u34	One of the requirements of the National Assembly for a number of years is that the questions of Members and Members are answered by ministers and ministers and the Secretary of State may not have the authority to answer the question raised on behalf of the Minister or the Minister. You have asked a question orally, colleague Kelemina, and next time the minister, to your question, is obliged to answer. The time you will have to ask the question will be added by the time you will otherwise devote to new Members' questions. Excuse me? You can't because you don't have an answer to the first. No, if we were to raise two questions, I would give you a chance, there are no further questions. Comrade Kelemin, there's no further question. If the Minister gives you an answer, and when he gives it, you will be able to request a supplement to the answer, and you will have that right then. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u35	If that is the case, then I would ask the Minister to answer me in writing, namely, precisely, in relation to this case, to place an illegal mobile phone station in Ivanjkovci, to answer exactly what measures have been taken, what penalties have been charged, what are the reasons for the illegal installation of the facility being legalised and all other information concerning this case, precisely so as to be answered in writing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u36	Your request is justified, we will address it to the Minister and he owes you an answer within the time limit. Comrade Kontič, Minister of Transport, is not here, but you will ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask the oral question to the Minister, despite his absence, and I am firmly convinced that I will also get an oral answer at the next meeting. The competent service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the policy of polycentric development of Slovenia should also be followed by the development of the road network. In addition, a challenging project called the 'road cross' needs to be approached as soon as possible to draw up plans for cross-links that will connect the most important regional centres. It is also necessary to link the Shaleska Valley to the motorway cross as soon as possible, to draw up plans and thus give an appropriate signal to potential investors who decide in the long term, so it is necessary to provide funds in the 2004 budget, so the competent service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers it necessary. The Minister of Transport, Mr Jakob President, I ask: Will the ministry, and, of course, at any time, take into account the referrals of these government services? Until the construction of a fast road, it will certainly be necessary to restore the existing road link. The road Arja vas - Velenje and further against Koroška stop is an obstacle to the economy and also in our space. The Arja vas road - Velenje is dangerous and characterized by its almost full length being divided into two parts with an uninterrupted full line, without a safe haven or perhaps even an additional belt. The existing so-called diamond connection on export or import to the Arja village motorway is necessary to eliminate and replace it with a so-called child. I would like to know what the ministry is doing in this area and, of course, I expect an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much. At the next meeting, therefore, the Minister of Transport is obliged to answer the question raised. My colleague Igor Štemberger will ask a question here to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! This week, the doors of Slovenian universities will open and thousands of students will begin driving to higher education centres. The indignation of students at the beginning of the school year, when the new rules for subsidising the transport of students and students raised the prices of transport, is well known. Now we can rightly expect similar responses from students. You probably agree that the regulated and accessible educational system includes financial accessible transport to and from school. You played students, students and their parents at the Ministry by issuing an inoperable sub-law on the basis of a good and general consensus of the adopted law. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we have been alerting the need to issue an appropriate regulation since the adoption of the law and asking the Ministry about it already in May 2003. We are the answer, probably not by chance, received today, two hours and fifteen minutes before the session. The Regulation brings many senseless and non-living provisions, which will in practice be very difficult if impossible to implement. Although more resources are allocated to subsidising student transport in this year's budget line compared to last year's, you have prepared the provisions of the Ministry's regulation so that most students and students are entitled to lower subsidies than they received in the past, while those eligible for 70 % of the subsidy due to the social situation are very few. Less than 2%. The claims that you have made more resources available to subsidise transport are therefore misleading, since you have made it impossible for the Regulation to fully use these funds. The economic chamber estimates that the government will thus save up to 9 billion Slovenian tolars. In the Young Slovenia Party, we strongly oppose this, as this means a grave interference with already financially burdened access to education. By doing so, you have once again demonstrated how a law adopted with good intent by adopting an inappropriate law-abiding act can be played out. Dear Minister, I ask you: Have you changed your views on the rule of law in order to eliminate the above-mentioned anomalies of the law? And I urge you to correct the provisions of the Regulation by allowing the Regulation to implement the basic purpose of amending the law and eliminating the pre-mentioned nonsense. Members of the Young Slovenia Party supported the law in order to increase all beneficiaries of the transport subsidy, but this is not the case. A total of 53 and a half percent of students receive a 10 percent lower subsidy than they were given before this regulation was introduced, so we ask you to correct the sub-law in accordance with the purpose and objectives of the adopted law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Minister, Dr. Gaber, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honour, because you are obviously living in the wrong direction about the consequences of the rules adopted, allow me to present some facts here. The facts say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has allocated around 20 per cent less funds before the introduction of the transport rules than it has dedicated. I can also provide you with very specific information for this month, which is already under way and the subsidies are being paid in concrete terms. In the budget, as you yourself have found, about 20 per cent of the funds are proposed. This month we will specifically spend about 17% more, some tolerance in budgetary planning was, of course, necessary. 46% of beneficiaries, or around 22,000 of them, will already receive more funds than they have received in the past. On average, however, the above percentage has been mentioned. The facts also say that, when the country has spent about 2 billion tolars on this area so far, it is not possible, by any theory, to save 9 billion tolars with a new rule. The one who has dealt financially with this issue would be happy to hire himself immediately if that were possible. The State will therefore allocate more resources. The Regulation works, but it is true that there are lobbies at the back of the entire project who believe that more resources could be diverted from the country. We are dealing with the question of how to increase, and this budget also brings, the amount of resources for young people's diet. How to increase the amount of funding for schools in nature and combine them in different areas of increase. All these increases are foreseen for 2004, but we have not been able to make more than 20% of the increase here, and we have also made this very clear when we adopt the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u42	Do you have a request to complete the response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u43	In conjunction with the implementation of this law, I am also interested in coordination between the ministries, more specifically, between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Transport sets out transport lines, their time frame and the choice of carriers and the Ministry of Education pays subsidies. Given the fact that I am aware of the complications involved in transporting students on the Illyrian Bistrica-Sežana route, where the Ministry of Transport has chosen a lower quality carrier, with an inflexible schedule and, most importantly, with a higher price, I am interested in: Is there any coordination between the two ministries in implementing this regulation and the indirect law on the financing and organisation of education and education in Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u44	Would you like to give an additional explanation, Minister Gaber? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u45	As far as line transport is concerned, I'd like to ask if the secretary could answer that question. I can tell you myself that discussions between ministries, including talks with the Ministry of Labour, have taken place on the regulation of transport in general, including the work on scholarships. We expect to find an even more beneficial, comprehensive solution for next year. For the time being, this is the one I've been telling you about, and I hope you now understand that young people are getting more money and that these are 46%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u46	We are moving on to the next question raised by my colleague Pece, the Minister of the Interior. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u47	Your Honors are here! When we passed the Police Act this year, we reminded the Slovenian National Party of the dangers posed by the law. We have warned that with the new law, the Slovenian police will come completely under the control of the United List, the Minister of the Interior, in terms of substance and political influence, under the influence of Mr Borut Pahor, President of the United Nations. Unfortunately, the events that resulted had to take place from Friday to Saturday. Three days, three different information from the police stations. On Saturday's first report, police administration report Trbovlje: "Police officers gravely demolished the mayor of Trbovlje because he tried to calm his passion." The following report, a report by the Ljubljana Police Administration on Tuesday says: "Bogdana Barovica has demolished the so-called violator." So, the police find that Bogdan Barovich was demolished by his own son. And when they found out the nonsense they were doing, they gave a joint statement stating that Bogdan Barovic had collapsed himself. The police find that Bogdan Barovic collapsed himself! Medical examination - obviously health care is the only valid one in this country - issued on the same day, 27.9.2003, says, quote: "Police officer Barovic injured on the left side of the chest and consequently a large impact injury, size 7 times 1 cm..." and then continues. It was issued by the General Hospital of Trbovlje. The event itself is very blurry. The police, the Ministry of the Interior, as within the Slovenian National Party, met on Saturday and Sunday. Interestingly, there were a large number of police officers in the night intervention, much larger than practice. And for the record, only the stem unit, along with the oak and sutures, sent two thirds of the funds available to the police in that area to the event, after an anonymous call. Very strange for one call, for violating public peace. Otherwise, official information by the Ministry, the Ljubljana Police Administrations point to a huge pile of lies. I emphasize, they point to a huge pile of lies. First of all, police officers have ordered restraints to the guards, to the guards, based on official information from the Ministry of the Interior. The police station or police officers did not require an alcohol test from any of the participants, nor did they perform it when the participants asked if they could perform an alcohol test. No, the police said no. After the completion of the procedure, the participants themselves, at their own expense, went to the hospital and requested an alcotest where the laboratory for clinical chemistry issued the document on the same day at 3 pm, the result of which was 0.0. The police should also issue the documents referred to in Article 108, which is the reasons and why the detention took place, and this was not the case. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we estimate that the matter has been planned, of a political nature, because the evidence they speak in favour of my words is too much at this time. Mr. Mayor Bogdan Barovic was a good mayor, you're suspending him because he's offering his place a different vision. A vision to enable Zasavje [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u48	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u49	Quality. [[...]] And I think it is wrong that the United List through the police cooperates in such a way that it tries to make a public mockery and, of course, physically treat members of other thinkers who have good ideas.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u51	I would like to reject any indication of any link between the United Nations and this event and the suggestion that the action has been politically planned or similar. But I can confirm the events that have been brought to the public. The police have so far provided two informations at Saturday and today's press conference. There is no final report on this event, in terms of the final determination of the correct conduct of police officers on this matter. The Minister of the Interior has acted in the manner the law imposes on him in this case. On Saturday he demanded a report from the general police administration on this matter, and he also received it this morning at 8 a.m.; a comprehensive report on the fact-finding of events. This report has already been reviewed by the Police Department and has identified the need to add some clarifications, clarify some of the circumstances, and in short required further clarification. This additional explanation is expected from the police by 1 October. The police administration has also appointed a commission to monitor and verify the circumstances of all these developments. And if they find out, as they now find, the differences between witnessing to one side and police reports and claiming to be police officers, then what is usually and also the rule will be done. In short, direct control will be carried out by carefully reconstructing all the events that will be carried out by the Ministry of the Interior or the Police Labour Authority. Witnesses, police officers, in short, all those involved, or in any way, will also be questioned to help clarify the actual situation. We want to know exactly whether there has been a breach of the principle of proportionality in the use of police force. In fact, physical force and means of action were used. So did the police follow procedures, such as those recorded very precisely in the instructions the police have on such cases. So the number of police officers was nothing unusual. Also, in cases of infringements of public order and peace, alcoholism is not usually detected by an alcohol test, especially if a police officer considers it to be obvious signs that can be assessed as guilt. In the following case, the officer assessed this and a measure of 108/2 was therefore determined. the article of the Act on Offences, Violations of Public Order and Peace, i.e. the measure of detention for exoneration or the measure of detention for reasons of repetitive danger. In the supervisory procedure, it will be necessary to demonstrate in particular that, on the basis of the re-examination of the facts, it is necessary to establish whether the police officer was the basis for this decision, in order to assess whether there is a recurrence risk. In particular, it will be necessary to determine whether the time of this detention was proportionate to this re-emergency risk assessment. Whether detention was necessary under 12 hours or, in view of the principle of proportionality, things could be resolved in a different way. In short, it is a whole series of details that will need to be reviewed with all due care, then we will finalise the report, and if it turns out that the police in this case have violated their powers, broken legislation, of course we will take appropriate action on this basis. Otherwise, I would say that the scope of physical force or police powers and enforcement resources is one of the areas where the most frequently used means of control by the Ministry of the Interior is used. The type of regular and extraordinary controls has been right about police in recent years [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u52	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u53	and the use of police enforcement measures carried out. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now I give my word to my colleague, Péčet. He wants a possible complement to the answer. But I kindly ask you to respect the limit of two minutes so that you do not need to be specifically [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u55	Witnessing. The defendants asked you to list the witnesses. Your cops didn't do that. You further note that it is not customary for violators of public order and peace to perform an alcotest. Please! And since your police officer, your member, found out he had a prejudice and an assessment that the participants were under the influence of alcohol, you kept them. While the health department found that the clinical laboratory was 0.0 and today you hope to talk instead of admitting that it was a political construct in the whole story. The fact is that Mr Barovic has become too good a mayor and that you are disturbed by the visible progress in certain local communities wherever you lose your political power. As far as politics is concerned, if you deny your own client, it's your problem, so you say your own self. But I don't think you understand the whole story. This is not just about Mr Bogdan Barovic's story. Mr Bogdan Barovic is a public person and has succeeded in establishing a dialogue with the public and today's debate. It's about all the people that the police, your people at the moment are carrying out the aggression, but they don't have the power to trigger it as a question or a public debate. This is because, as a result of the amendment of the Police Act, which you have proposed to this State Assembly for admission and which was accepted with the support of your members, you have allowed a country which is ruled by the police, and you have forgotten those standards which are fundamental to the police, that this is the establishment of order and peace for all participants, whether the mayor, Member or human, or the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, I apologize for the failure to do so. There's a major mismanagement of the police. This is what we want to change in the Slovenian National Party. Unfortunately, this time you threw yourself at the mayor of a city that is not even close to the United List.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you. You, you wanted procedural? You want to complete the deal? Please, first of all, the Minister of the Interior, then I will give my word to you, Comrade Rupar, on a procedural basis.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u57	In view of the fact that a colleague of Peca has made some observations, it is right to say, at least, that I strongly disagree with what you have said about the party's connection to this event, as well as with some of the other issues that you are talking about here. It is only necessary to accept that there is a police profession, that there are standards of conduct in such cases. The law on police, its novelty, has contributed greatly to the fact that the supervision of police procedures can now be carried out in a more effective way and I assure you that it is thanks to the amendment of the law that we will be able to get to the place of all facts and circumstances in this case and find the true truth. And if it becomes clear, as some now do, that there has been a violation of legislation, police powers, abuse of police powers, then I will also be able to take appropriate action on the basis of supervision.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u58	My friend Patch, did you want procedural? Please, you have the floor first. If I understand correctly, you will propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u59	You're saying I'm guessing. It's better than lying in writing, like your police people do when they give false information with official tags. However, I would like to implement Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that, on a proposal from a Member who asks a question, the National Assembly may decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. Because we think the minister's response is misleading. Knowing that he has some information, it would also make sense for him to consider giving up earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you very much, buddy. Your request to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior will be decided by the State Assembly by vote tomorrow in the first vote, as is now the custom. Comrade Rupar, did you want procedural? Otherwise, you have no right to perform now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr President, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are very concerned about these actions in the Slovenian space. This is not the only case. There are many more cases like this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u62	Mr. Rupar, procedurally! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u63	Yes, procedurally, I will also put in place a procedural decision which I want the National Assembly to decide. However, I would like to say - so I will talk a little more about this in my parliamentary question after 5 p.m. However, since this, our wish, coincides with the implementation of Mr. Pečet's national party, I ask that we vote on a procedural decision: Mr Bohinc is to submit to the National Assembly a report or the names of all the mayors under control by the end of this meeting. I want you to vote on this and to find out by the end of this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you, Comrade Rupar. Look, none of us know the rules of procedure so badly that we don't know that what you're proposing is not a business possibility. When I give someone the chance to explain what he's going to say after he raises his hand on a procedural issue, I can't know what he's going to ask. Thus, I cannot know in advance that your question or proposal is not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Well, it certainly isn't this time. If you want to encourage anything about your desire for a different path, you can do so, and this is not possible. Comrade Cheligoj now has the floor if he wants to ask an oral question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to ask Mr Booth a question, but he's not here. I would still like to ask a question and ask for an oral answer at the next sitting, as well as a written one. My question concerns information on the responsibility of the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. I want to know: Who controls the legality of the work of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Republic of Slovenia and what sanctions are there in the event of irregularities found? Who can protect and assist citizens in cases where the Fund plays them, both by delaying procedures, assigning replacement land, entering into leases and purchasing contracts? Who should take action if the responsible employee of the fund in the lease contract even registers a partial number that has not been published in the offer? Are the Fund subject to administrative procedures with a 30-day deadline for responding to a citizen's application or appeal? As far as I am aware, the Fund is responsible for its work to the Council, the Supervisory Committee and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and above all to the latter. While the Fund’s supervisory board is overseen by the lawfulness of the work, as far as I know, this body, appointed by the National Assembly, does not take account of the Fund’s leadership. Examples are known that the Fund is delaying the allocation of replacement land. I know of a case where the assignment procedure has lasted for 10 years, since 1993, and is still not completely resolved. Or an example of land sale. A citizen who has applied for the purchase of agricultural land to the fund in 1999 has not yet received an answer to this role. Since the re-application in 2002, 17 months have passed and the contract has not yet been concluded. For 23 years, the interested buyer who sorted the change had leased the land, and therefore there should be no reservation to the sale. The case is known that the Fund’s responsible employee entered a parcel that was not offered into the lease. More. For the purchase, the person obtained the land that he had previously wished to obtain as a replacement land owned by a denationalising beneficiary. The last one is a young, prospective farmer. However, in the course of the lease, the non-agricultural lady, her husband, worked in Austria, and previously worked this land in black, without a contract, without a fee for purchases. I am also aware of the case where the citizen has not received a response to the complaint addressed to the three addresses of the Fund for more than five months, including the address of the Director of the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you very much. There's no minister. So you're asking for an oral response. This way we can turn to the next question raised by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic to the Minister of Education. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of this month, the school year began, so we pay more attention to students and students and their educational programmes. We all know that the education and education of young people is essential for every country, as the success of the country depends on the knowledge of citizens and the ability to co-exist. The concern is that our school system is very slow to adapt to giving young people more creative knowledge and training for life. However, preparing young people for life’s challenges is not only education but also education. However, we can find that we are still quite neglectful of it. The phenomenon that there are security guards at a large number of schools, that aggression between students and students may increase, that there may be cases of excellence, such as those in Kranj or in Šostanje, when youths took into their hands the life of a man who was gifted but lost in the modern world because he was not prepared for life in it. All of this shows that in school it is not enough to provide a learning substance but also to raise it. Raise a youth into an honest, independent and creative man and citizen. Raising all human values is essential for us to be able to live in an orderly and successful society. Young people must have a clear right relationship. They must also have a proper relationship with drugs and alcohol. Above all, everyone must gain respect for himself and for his fellow man must also get the right attitude toward his people and country. Obviously, to you who are now ruling and creating our lives and the lives of future generations, all of this is not important enough. However, we must be aware that society is changing and must not be allowed to turn in a negative direction. For what is now happening in our society, we are all responsible. Are we really going to leave the education of our young people on the street, which has led our young to excesses all too often? I do not think that we can afford to leave education in schools to individual enthusiasts who are aware of the lack of education, because they can experience different unpleasant situations in their jobs on a daily basis, both in relation to the youth themselves and in relation to them. People working in the field of education feel a great gap between declared values and between life and action in accordance with these declared values. The training of values should be based on the cooperation of parents, children and schools, not on the same and the same. Mr. Minister, I ask you: When will a system of education be introduced in the pre-school and school education systems at well-considered starting points, for good relations, for respect for individuals and communities and for other common human values? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, colleague Maria Ana Tisovic. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Gaber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is precisely because those working in the field of education and education are aware of how important the challenge is for this society as a whole, including for the family and for the school as well as for the issue of education, that the incorporation of fundamental civilisation values, those common, generally accepted, has been devoted to a lot of reflection since the White Paper on Education and Education was born when the concept of change in education and education in Slovenia was being prepared. Even more directly, these objectives were categorized in the context of curiculative reconstruction, when we were dealing with the issues of how to create, as far as possible, within the entire range of subjects and different practices in school, a good and appropriate situation for the existence of educational problems, those truly emerging problems that I do not deny myself, as little as possible. The laws already state, for example, in kindergartens - that developing the ability to understand yourself and others, to negotiate, to take account of diversity and to participate in groups is one of the fundamental objectives in the area of preschool education. Similarly, Article 2 of the Basic School Act explicitly speaks about the education for municipal, cultural and civilisational values that stem from European tradition. When preparing the colular reform I was talking about, special attention was paid to the subject of civic education and ethics and to the specific subject of religion and ethics. At the same time, the Committee on Civil Education and Ethics was tasked with specifically reviewing all other curricula and trying, where possible, to incorporate these content into the contents of all teaching. When these curricula were prepared, and when they were widely discussed around Slovenia, we prepared teachers to be successfully introduced to schools as far as possible. We started this introduction a few years ago and this year is the first time in school in Slovenia the entire generation, the whole population in the new nine-year primary school that introduced these programs. We do not believe that this news will solve all the questions in itself. However, we believe that they can help resolve these issues. Of course, in the context of the system framework, because you specifically ask about the system framework, there is a lot to be done about the specific behaviour of both school management and teachers. Together - I've talked about this before - with us in the families. If we can take more time for this young population, we'll solve a lot of problems. Unfortunately, we both know not all of them. The area of education is one that requires the continuous search for new answers and the establishment of additional mechanisms, including programmes such as UNESCO schools, healthy schools, ECO schools and similar ones. There are also more courses that prepare teachers to deal with drug, violence and so on. We're doing all of this, dear colleague. We'll do more than that. I hope it's as successful as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u70	Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please, colleague Ana Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much for your answer. I know that there's a lot going on at school, and I'm the only one who's really upset about having one principal at school, and it's really good at it, and it's really bad at other schools. It bothers me. That's what you guys could do from the top down or you could do. This is the inequality across Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u72	Would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Look. I was just talking about the system framework, about what is recommended and required in relation to every school, to every management. If you take into your hands this year’s district at the beginning of the school year, you can also read all the additional instructions that went around after school. In addition to this, the Education Institute conducted various talks in Slovenia with groups of directors. This, of course, does not automatically lead to the same good conditions everywhere. It is also not as difficult to resolve questions everywhere. In large cities this is significantly harder, fortunately, for you, than in Slovenian Horsemen, where the place is smaller and more manageable. I'm not saying he goes there without any problems. I must remain in calling on all of us to work together to improve the situation. If you know about specific schools, where it is different, then I will be happy to listen to your comments, and we will see what we can do at that particular school you are talking about, if you have a very specific mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u74	Two questions are now raised by a colleague, Dr. Brace. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say and ask that Mrs Minister and Mr Minister, who is not here today, respond on Wednesday. I see no reason why only the Prime Minister would answer our questions. I understand that ministers are absent for excusable reasons, but I see no reason why they would not then answer the questions that we are asking here at the time of this meeting, or else these things seem rather pointless to me. I ask the Minister a question related to the basic supply of people in remote areas. Those who live in or near cities have the opportunity to buy what we need in stores, and the situation in remote villages is much more difficult because of the fact that they are remote are empty. In these villages often, this is actually happening massively now, closing down basic-life stores, so that the supply of these people is really at risk. I think it's wrong. Otherwise, I understand that trade has to work for profit, for profit. That's all right and all right. In cases where this cannot be ensured, however, the State must ensure that people have at least approximately equal living conditions. Of course, it's a big word, the differences are still big. That's why I'm asking the Minister: What are you going to do to ensure that citizens, citizens in remote areas, are provided with basic necessities of life? The second question is addressed to Minister Kopač, Minister for Environment and Space. Liberal democracy has this area, if I recall correctly, for about 10 years. During that time, we also listened in public to how waste disposal would be handled. I note that no significant step has been taken in the last ten years despite the big words before the elections, for example. Slovenia is becoming a land of waste, many landfills. Individual congregations decide to solve these problems independently by even imagining incinerators. The environmentalists got lost somehow. Most of them are waste dumps of black construction. Inspectors don't do anything here if you don't, because there's nothing you can do. There is therefore a significant anarchy in this area. The liberal democracy that runs this ministry, except for the promise, has done nothing. I therefore ask the Minister: What has been done in this area? When will what was promised finally work? These are regional waste dumps. What about the incinerators? We well know that incinerators, including the smallest ones, are extremely high capacity and that, therefore, one incinerator is likely to satisfy the needs of the whole of Slovenia. Is there anything that the Ministry of the Environment really up to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u76	Dr. Brace is supposed to be on display in time red numbers. But since he asked two questions, he had the right to set it up in six minutes, so I didn't interrupt. The government must also answer his questions. My colleague Kavtičnik has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Minister, representatives of the government. I'll ask the Minister of Transport. Since he's not here, I expect a written answer. The Sports Act states that the State and local communities are obliged to take care of the realization of public interest in sport, including the construction, regulation and maintenance of sports facilities. The State is the owner of the Slovenian Railway Public Company. Slovenian railways, however, own certain properties, specifically land on which sports facilities are located. That's why I'm asking: Why sports facilities, Sport Park Ljubljana, Universal Square - road in the municipality of Ajdovščina, playground for small football Uršna sele in Nové mesto, and sports playground Tomaž Kavas in the municipality of Slovenj Gradec, are not excluded from the process owned by Slovenian railways? The facilities were built and maintained as sports facilities and their exclusion would not have a significant impact on the recapitalisation process of the Slovenian Railway public undertaking or on the preservation of the company's capital adequacy in accordance with the Business Act. Since I want this issue to be resolved, I am taking the initiative to have representatives of the Slovenian Railway Public Institute meet with representatives of the Ministry of Education and try to find a solution. I also want an oral response to the next meeting. However, since I still have time, I am taking the initiative to have the proponents of this order correct my name and the name of the party, because I do not know the client of LSD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u78	You demand an apology and I'm giving it to you. My colleague Vnučec will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Each year, the country allocates expenditure on culture, both for its programming work and for investment and for the maintenance of cultural heritage. However, the maintenance of cultural heritage, of course, can be very expensive if it does not approach this problem gradually. If we do some maintenance work, when the water is running into our throats, then these are large means, of course, that are also in our eyes. On the other hand, this area of investment in culture is not as interesting as highways or the construction of other buildings. Therefore, there is also no overcrowding by operators or regional institutions for the protection of culture here. Thus, we can talk about a small monopoly in this area, including from foreign institutions that do such or other professional work to understand each other. Despite the fact that it is professional work, it is also necessary to approach this area in terms of the rationality of spending state resources. I therefore wonder: What about the restoration of the staircase on the island of Blejska, which you recently announced, especially its implementation and its financial construction? Restoration of this staircase is urgently needed for a long time, and I can say that it is finally her turn. However, I am asking in terms of rationality. Is it rational, or is it true, that this restoration will take place in such a way that these steps will be dismantled and transported by helicopters to Ljubljana, and this cost would amount to a few hundred million tolars? Some independent experts estimate that this could be done on the spot for almost 10 times less money. That's why I want to know: Does the ministry also generally control the rationality of spending this money and, what is the actual plan to solve this Slovenian cultural pearl, the staircase on the island of Blej? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Grandchild. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much, President. Mr Member, thank you for the question, I will try to be very specific. You're talking about numbers that I don't know about, but I have other numbers in front of me. The Public Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has been a single public institution in the last two years, whose work or mission is to preserve the immovable cultural heritage and implement conservation and restoration programmes. It is a job that we know in Europe and in the world, organised as a public service within the country. It is true that this is a special profession, which also requires special education and, above all, experience. Restoration of the stairs on the Island of Bled has been taking place for many years. The Black Island is a monument of state importance that there will be no mistake, which is still waiting for the completion of the ownership determination. The State, the Republic of Slovenia, and thus the Ministry of Culture for the sake of our tradition for 3000 years and for the sake of the nearly 25 thousand monuments that we also have, also retains funds within the framework of the public institution for cultural heritage in order to reach after intervention to avoid the destruction of the monument. In the case of the Blaze steps, however, we know that there has also been a risk of life because of access. How to address this issue is a matter of a regular programme of the Public Institute for Cultural Heritage, which has been planned for two years under its programme. That's why I'd just list something. From geological investigations, which, of course, is done in accordance with and in cooperation with the Geological Survey, to geo-mechanical investigations, to geomechanical soils in cooperation with our or the Institute, I will tell ZRMK, to archaeology and probes, to the field rehabilitation project, also in cooperation with the external company. The list is all over the page. The value of all the parts that need to be done in order to reach the final number of physical renewals of these works is 14 million 500 thousand dollars. As part of the programme that they had to implement in a public institution, because it is a work programme and a priority, with regard to the number, as far as physical presentation or restoration of the monument will mean, I cannot tell you. This is an estimate that, according to all these results, is about 45 million tolars. Far below that number you're talking about, and I don't even know where you got it. I also note with great joy that there are two departments involved here or that they have agreed to do so. The Ministry of Defence is also involved. I have to say, in history this is not a practice. In the past, the Ministry of Defence has also participated and has already participated in many objects or cultural monuments. Of course, it is either help or upgrade knowledge and, finally, equipment, so that we do not interfere with other areas. And in this case, we will also cooperate. I do not know, however, that they would take the stairs from Blejska Island to Ljubljana. I think it's too far. An invitation to tender for the contractor will also be drawn up in October, which will be completed in January. On the basis of the invitation to tender and the contractor, we will also then know who the contractor is. However, we expect work to be carried out according to our plan by 1 May 2004, when the 1000th anniversary of Bled will be celebrated. As I mentioned in the figures, I can also provide you with documentation or a program of the public institution in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u82	Are you satisfied with your grandson's answer? [[No, no, ……]] Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam Secretary. This information, I have to say, I got it, I'm not going to tell you exactly who, but within the jurisdiction where this facility is located. However, I am glad that if this is not the case, or perhaps at that time, those who prepared it to be one of the options decided on the other option. In any event, the purpose of my question was mainly to restore cultural monuments rationally and, of course, professionally. I wanted to say that funds need to be made available for these needs. After the problem has arisen - as you said, unfortunately things are being resolved with us when lives are at risk, that it is also dedicated to other cases every year, not then on a one-time basis. When these funds are single, they are, of course, very high. In any case, I am very pleased that you offered to look at this documentation - you do not need to write, you can invite me - and you would also like to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u84	Madam Minister, you will also answer the next question. He'll be put up by his friend Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I also have a question for the Minister of Culture myself concerning the event that took place on 15.8. This is on this evening's great charming evening, when Mr Brecelj, who runs the NDC in Cyprus and, among other things, the City Councilman, disabled all the bells in the bell tower of the Koper Capital. This action was followed by a much larger television, which is financed by taxpayers’ funds, as it tolerated this insult of believers and the interference of holiday masses as a first-class cultural event. Other attacks on religion, such as the burning of the Cross over Strunjan, the incursion of the Laibach Group into the Church of Kum, have been identified by the media as cultural events and their actors are considered cultural and receive funds from the state budget. I ask the Minister: Did your ministry do something or do something about it to reduce intolerance toward Slovenian Catholics? It's about the culture of the heart. That the intolerance of this category exists is also proven in the TV broadcast Trenja from last week. The survey showed that about 70% of those who called were confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u86	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much for the question, Member. I'll stick to the terms of reference I have. I also answer your question with the touch of media freedom when you ask me. I would therefore like to quote our adopted media law, which states in its 6th Article that "the activity of the media is based on freedom of expression, on the inviolability and protection of human personality and dignity, on the free flow of information and the openness of the media for different opinions, beliefs and for diverse content, on the autonomy of editors, journalists and other authors in the creation of programming content in accordance with the programming designs and professional codes, and on the personal responsibility of journalists or other authors of contributions and editors for the consequences of their work". This same law states in its Article 3: "The publisher shall independently design the programming design of the media and bear the fundamental responsibility for its implementation." The responsible editor shall be responsible for the implementation of the programming design and the publication of information under Article 18 of the Law. In this regard, of course, the Ministry of Culture cannot and must not interfere with the editorial policies of the Slovenian media, regardless of their status. Any state intervention in the field of editorial policy of the media would thus not be a last resort to dangerous interference with editorial autonomy and, of course, in the field of press freedom. For the cultural events you yourself mentioned in your parliamentary question, as well as the actors you mentioned, they did not receive funds from the state budget, specifically from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The content or mission of the Ministry of Culture, which speaks from last year's adopted law on the realization of public interest in culture as well as the last planned European Constitutional Treaty, as described in the second chapter of Article 13, is guaranteed by freedom of art. Therefore, other competent national authorities must, of course, assess possible infringements of all applicable criminal law rules.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u88	Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. That is, if I understand correctly, it was a cultural event. Someone's sorry is a cultural event? Plus, TV shows. Then it's okay, because the culture has to be shown by television. Right. I understand that Mr Brecelj does not receive anything from the Ministry of Culture, no payment. Is that true? Yeah, that's how I understood. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u90	Was this a request to supplement the answer? Are you done?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u91	I don't understand. Everything that Mrs Minister has said is not clear to me. She interprets one marriage and at the same time makes it clear that someone can be insulted, beaten and so on, and so on. I'm talking about a heart culture. Me, for example, if I saw someone doing something wrong here on the revolution monument, I wouldn't let him. As a citizen, I'd say that's not what you do. I'd call law enforcement. And no matter how I think. And what was going on at the church in Koper, is that supposed to be a cultural event?Oh, my God! I don't know. I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u92	Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you. You asked me if the Ministry of Culture or the State had granted or provided funds for these events that you mentioned. The state has not given funds for these events, these projects. Of course, creators or individuals have run for office on our calls and have received funding from a sustainable budget for other programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u94	Dialogue is not possible from the bench. We know that. Are you finished, Madam Secretary? [[Yeah.]] Then I give you my word, Comrade Rokavac. Comrade Rokavec will ask a question to the Minister of Finance, who is not. Would you like an oral answer to your question? Then ask an oral question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. If I know correctly, Mr. Secretary, Dr. Marble has apologized for his objective reasons. I also wish him a successful recovery. This summer, in addition to the average temperatures we witnessed, it also raised the temperature to the committee in the long waiting lines in front of the bank window of the New Ljubljana Bank. This was due to the so-called Sigma Information System affair, which led to an incomplete transition to transaction accounts. The Committees of the New Ljubljana Bank are still facing a number of issues and dilemmas that are present in their business with the Bank. For example, the ATMs did not have a clear picture or actual state of affairs in their personal account, but they received it before long windows at the exposures of the bank. The system Click, Internet business, didn't work, which is still happening at night and night. Doing business via Eurocard or Visa card abroad did not work. In many cases, tourists who were on a flight to Croatia had to return home to pay for this holiday after cash. Some commentants still do not have an open personal account or have not received an appropriate bank card. Since Nova Ljubljanska banka is the largest bank in the Republic of Slovenia, with which very many of our citizens and citizens operate, and since the country still owns at least 8.7% of the bank, I am interested in the following: what has the government done or on its behalf the Ministry of Finance to remedy the mistakes made more quickly and also to determine responsibility for the damage? In the absence of adequate introduction of this information system, the question of many citizens and citizens, where this partly also went tax money. I therefore expect an appropriate response. I believe that there are probably many other citizens and citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u96	You are also entitled to this reply, and the Minister is obliged to give it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jerovšek also intended to ask the Minister for Finance, but he could certainly ask the Secretary-General a question. Of course also to the Minister of Finance, if you want an oral answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u97	I'm going to ask you a question because the matter is up to date and it can't be delayed. However, I announced my question at a time when I did not know that Minister Marble was in the hospital; of course, I wish him from the heart as soon as possible. But I'm surprised he named the deputy that she's not here today. At the time of the adoption of the mandate, Mr Rop promised to form a national financial pillar around the New Credit Bank Maribor, including first the Postal Bank of Slovenia, then the entire insurance sector. The second pillar, it was said, is already the Ljubljana Bank. Against this, a financial lobby was raised within the LDS, some influential Members lobbyed for the benefit of the Bank and strongly opposed it. And since these lobbies are obviously stronger than the then promises of Mr Rob, just before the holidays, in an ungrateful time of sour cucumbers, Minister Maramor made a proposal to form two additional financial pillars; one around the New Credit Bank, with a study, he merely ordered, and the other around the Insurance Office Triglav, the insurance pillar. I have already mentioned that these financial lobbies are very strong, so this proposal, especially since it was submitted in such a strange time, in Maribor, in Styria and in our environment, raises many questions and doubts about the honesty of all of this. It seems like he wants to get out of the property of the New Credit Bank of Maribor, move it to the Sava reinsurance company and then stop the process. In Maribor and the surrounding area, we have poor experience in holding Slovenian power plants, where it was a financial robbery, which is why people are afraid, as well as entrepreneurs, the economy, a new manoeuvre of financial lobbying. Why does this proposal not come through a regular procedure in Parliament, through marriage, binding? The former governments have announced both property and all this through law. Now it's completely untransparent. That's why I'm asking and I want to explain: What is the situation when they come to Parliament, who is actually conducting in the finance ministry, which lobbying government from behind? How much can you trust that? There's still a lot of questions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u98	You have three minutes. Would you like to ask another question? I'm not forcing you, but you have the right. Please. Please, you have time to run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u99	I have a question for Mr Bandle, who is on his own, regarding the government's policy of appointing supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises and boards of public institutions. The question is raised in this situation at the Clinical Centre regarding corruption and the SIB bank. These are the most clear examples. The fact is that massive corruption is a consequence of such a government policy in this area, it appoints in these supervisory councils and supervisory councils of public institutions virtually exclusively its own people, who are sometimes connected persons in many previous financial affairs. While I am grateful to the Secretary-General for admitting guilt in the matter of the Clinical Centre that he has resigned as President of the Council of the Institute, political responsibility will also be required in this country. I expect that some who are responsible will also step down from their political functions. In the formation of these supervisory councils, it is clear that, through these appointments, it also provides additional enormous profits to its most loyal members, who have been audited, in some supervisory councils, 30,000 euros for one supervisory council and so on, with the full support of the government. There are a lot of cases like this. You have completely eliminated the opposition in the supervisory councils, where any money is decided. However, I am sure that if there were only one representative of the opposition, this corruption, which is at a transparent level this year, what falls out of the water like an icy mountain, has already taken at least 10 billion money to make sure it is 2/3 less. With such an organized network, everything is difficult to prevent. That's why I'm asking the question: When do you intend to launch a transparent policy, with the prioritization of supervisory boards and boards of public institutions? What are the government's guidelines for prizes in these supervisory councils? I see the government supports this policy: you support me, I support you. When a new owner arrived at the Ljubljana Bank, he prevented the payment of these enormous prizes because he said, these members of the administration, who are all after two supervisory councils at the Frankfurt Bank, etc., do so for full-time work. Government [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And she's never stopped these enormous payments before. [[...]] Never. Please let us finally get an answer: When will the government start to work in the interests of the state, not in the interests of the parties in power?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. The answer to your question, Secretary General. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I will try to answer, although, of course, the question is not raised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I am not the one who could be responsible for the government's human resources policy. However, since many things have been said, which also fly to me personally, I think it is worth answering this question. Above all, I don't think they hold the claim that the government here is in any way insinuating that it is placing the supervisory councils in companies where corruption is then committed. I don't even know where this is proven, but the government with the Slovenian Investment Bank has nothing and has not put any authorities in this bank. Otherwise, the applicable criteria for setting meetings or all ratings, if so called by the members, representatives of the State in the holy institutions and in the supervisory councils of companies, can be argued that such an amount cannot be obtained, at least in a non-legal manner. On the basis of the criteria that I also presented here a while ago, I think the maximum possible gross amount of the meeting is about 100,000 tolars or less. I can say for myself that as a member of the Board of the Clinical Center, I have not even received a tolar in these three years. Otherwise, I think the meeting is about 10 or 15 thousand tolars, but most of us are giving up. I didn't admit any guilt either regarding the clinical centre, as was said. I don't even know why he'd be guilty. After all, the Council of the Institute does not conclude contracts, does not decide on contracts and has not decided in any way in the contract, nor can it bear the blame for this way of doing business. I stepped down because I don't think the world of the institution at the last meeting has done the job they should have done as the world of the institution. In doing so, I must tell you that the founder of the Institute's world has only 13 out of 25 members. There is already a sufficiently clear parity picture of various interests and different representatives, including the various institutions in this body. I can also say that the members of the supervisory boards appointed by the government cannot in any way be involved in the profits of public companies, nor other companies. So I think most of what you said just doesn't have the right material basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u102	Request for an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u103	I am surprised that the Secretary-General, on the fact that we are thanks to the fact that the supervisors and the saints of the institutions do not carry out their task of enriching so much corruption that has escaped from exercise this year, is often ruled and directed by the government to give immediate and evasive answers. I have received a literal association, as if a government programme or a symbolic government programme in this area could identify it with the name of the Prime Minister. It is amazing how you avoid all the government's responsibility to appoint such supervisory councils. Even when you have appointed new members of the board of the institution, I must say that among them there are completely non-creditable names that have already been involved in many matters, indirectly with the SIB bank through the spouses of Klemenčič, who have done everything they can to break the state and, of course, the members of the insurance company, etc. Nevertheless, we do receive such answers. We do not have confidence, citizens cannot have such confidence in such answers. I ask you, Mr Secretary-General, to take this matter seriously in the government. It is necessary to stop this programmed action against the interests of the State for private purposes. I insist once again that they do not carry out the work of the saints of the public institutions because of such a government strategy, which you are also showing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Sir, the Secretary-General wishes to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u105	I find it very difficult to answer a question that is inexpressible, flat-rate. I can reiterate that the government has not appointed and has no interference with any of the authorities in the SIB and therefore cannot bear responsibility for the errors in that bank. As for the Clinical Center, the appointment of new members of the Council does not fall within my jurisdiction, but I think it would be good, given that you have criminalized the composition of all 13 representatives of the Founder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u106	Order, there's no dialogue from the bench!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u107	For criminalizing all 13 representatives, it would be good to name some. [[..]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u108	Comrade Jerovšek, you have no say, you only have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal or. What do you have in mind? You have no word for protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u109	Mr Bandelj claims that I have criminalised everything, I have said that some are non-creditable, so I protest against falsifying words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u110	Please, we're all bound to respect the rules of procedure. It's not just my duty to remind him. Mr Levič will ask the Minister of the Environment a question. You want to ask a question? Please, Comrade Levich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Kopač, but he is not present today, so I expect an oral answer at the next meeting. Through the spruce metropolis, the city of Ljutomer, flows the river Ščavnica. In the Ščavnica River, all sewers from households and the industry of the Lztomer municipality are directly removed. The river is so polluted that it is classified in the fourth grade and is the most polluted river in the Republic of Slovenia and also one of the most polluted rivers in Europe. Residents [[close to 1,500 live on the river Ščavnica, east of the town of Ljutomer]] They are therefore exposed to an unbearable smell during the summer months from April to September, as the river Ščavnica has a very low flow during the summer months. Thus, the medium low flow of Ščavnica is only 0.3 cubic meters per second and only 0.18 cubic meters per second or measures only a few centimeters. As the water boils during the day heats up to 28 degrees Fahrenheit [28 ° C], an insufferable smell spreads in the evening hours of the river. Life along the river is therefore unsustainable and already seriously endangers tourism as a promising future source of survival for the life there. I'm curious, and I'm hoping to get an answer: When will the cleaning plant finally be built in Ljutomer to eliminate this ecological disaster. In view of the fact that the final answer to the congregation is Razkrižje [[Letter No 355/02/18-00, of 11.8.2003]] was replied: "The start of the cleaning plant is foreseen by the end of this year and is expected to be completed by the end of the following year." Contrary to the Minister's assurance, the authorised investor of Ljutomer Municipality, Ljutomer Municipal and Housing Company, claims that the cleaning plant will not start construction this year. How will the state be involved in solving the pressing problem, given that the Lz can't carry out the investment on its own? How will the Ministry deal with this problem, since obviously the Lznomer, Cross-Breed and Cross-Breeding municipalities will not be in favour of this problem alone, as they belong to an area with specific development problems and need additional financial incentives from the State and the European Union to address this problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u112	Your question must be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Potrč will now raise a question with the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. First, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question. In 2000, Mebles started building a neighborhood of Zbilje Gaj with protected apartments. Protected apartments are designed primarily for elderly people, since home care is also provided here. On the basis of these assurances, many people have decided to sell their assets and, along with their savings, buy this apartment and thus secure a quality and peaceful autumn. At the end of June 2003, these buyers were faced with life. A bankruptcy procedure was introduced for the Mebles company. This is said to have been uncertain about their money and their savings to buy these apartments. The actual situation of the individual buyer began to be determined in a chilling way, as they were not all in the same position. There has been great uncertainty and resentment among many, especially the elderly. A large part of them simply naively believed that the State had regulated the legal protection of buyers who concluded a purchase contract in good faith and paid the purchase price. They could not, and they still cannot, believe that they are less protected than those who may be able to afford their possessions that they have kept for the rest of their lives in the old days. During that time, I also received some personal warnings about the situation in Zbilje Gaj, so I already gave the Minister of Justice an initiative on 7 August to gather the necessary information on the matter, to explore the possibilities for securing the rights and benefits of the affected and to find out how to help them. On 11 August, the Ministry kindly replied to me and said that, as soon as it had found out about the problems of the buyers, it had acted in accordance with its competence to request a report on the case and to keep a close eye on the work of the judicial authorities and to prepare a more comprehensive reply on the matter. Since it's been over a month and a half and I haven't received the Ministry's answer, I'm asking the Minister: Is the ministry fully aware of the actual situation in the case of the Zbilski Gaj? Did it assess and determine the reasons for the situation that could result in the loss of paid rent or protected dwellings? What, or what, does he intend to do within his jurisdiction to protect them?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u114	Please, Minister of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u115	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, we have been thoroughly familiar with the problem of the case of the Zbilje Gaj, and I can say that there has been a whole range of activities, both in the ministry, between the ministries and within the government, in order to identify the possibilities for this problem, which I fully agree, for the home buyers to find the most appropriate solutions. On 13 August, the Ministry forwarded a more extensive legal opinion explaining what possibilities exist under the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation for the protection of the rights of home buyers in similar cases. Later, we examined various options, including on the basis of some initiatives and proposals, how the problem could be addressed or helped to solve the problem in the legislative field. Of course, it has proved, and we have prepared a comprehensive analysis of the fact that, for a concrete case, a solution at the legislative level cannot be taken into account, is neither admissible nor effective, as it would be an attempt to retroactively regulate certain relations. Later, in cooperation with all ministries concerned by this problem, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and the Government's Office for Law, have also examined the possibility of a mandatory interpretation of certain provisions of the law on forced settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation. It turns out that this is also not a question that can be addressed in this way and where such a solution would be an effective contribution to solving problems. That is why, in the cooperation of all the ministries already mentioned, we note that the possibility of dealing with these housing buyers is only those that exist in the bankruptcy process itself, where all participants in this coordination have agreed that the State will, through its representative in the board of directors, take up such solutions as would be most appropriate for the purchasers of dwellings. This is, in fact, what is being done most about this case, which is being analyzed backwards. Another issue is the prevention of similar cases. The Housing Act, which has already been passed but has not yet been implemented, contains provisions aimed at protecting home buyers. We estimate that it is a suitable place to regulate these relations right in this housing law. This is because specific regulation, the introduction of provisions in the law on compulsory settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation relating to this area would have led to a rather radical intervention in certain insolvency proceedings, and would have further affected some of the foundations of the mortgage institute if they had resolved in the direction of certain initiatives that had been given. At the same time, I should like to point out that the Ministry is monitoring and has already obtained a report from the law enforcement authorities concerning proceedings in connection with suspected crimes and charges in this case, where two complaints are currently under way, and the procedure is still in the forecasting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u116	I can keep going. My friend Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary! Your statement on what was actually done in August is not precise, but I believe you, because I am also aware that there was a series of talks and meetings later, because the Ministry of Justice and the rest of the ministries were trying to engage what to do. However, in view of your statement on where and how to solve similar cases in the future, I would like to ask a supplementary question first and then ask a new question, which will be very short. The first complementary question is: In view of your statements, can I count that the government, through its representative on the board of creditors, will only do its utmost to ensure that, if not resolved, at least the favorite issue and position of the buyers of these apartments is resolved? That's a complementary question. Second question to you, as well as to the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy: Can we claim that the solutions brought by the Housing Law and later the Real Estate Intermediation Act have resolved these issues in the future? Is that your assurance as well as others? Or are you thinking of any additions that would only settle future issues so that buyers who purchase them would be protected, as well as other apartments secured in connection with contracts concluded? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u118	Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u119	With regard to the supplementary question. The single position of all those involved in the search for a solution in this case was that the country would, through its representation in the creditor committee, take the best possible solutions in favour of the buyers of the apartments. It is not possible to talk about what these solutions were, since at the time of this meeting all the details of possible further activities in this bankruptcy procedure have not yet been known. However, decisions will need to be properly coordinated, and they will also genuinely strive to do what is best for these housing buyers. Although the second issue is not from my work circle, it is known that the government has already dealt with any amendments or additions to the housing law, namely Article 123, which introduces this protection of the buyers of apartments, in particular in terms of sanctioning, disregarding this law by the sellers, and also in terms of complementing the solutions that are legal there. Until the law is enforced, the government cannot come, as far as I know, with a novelty of this law, but we are already dealing with this issue. I expect that, at this time, the Minister of Environment and Space will be able to give his part of the answer, to find solutions on the basis of which you might ask whether these solutions will provide protection, but will provide a firm answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The next question will first be raised by colleague Sok to the Minister of the Interior and then to the Minister of Finance. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! Although it is constantly evident in our public that we are more or less dealing with the past in Novi Slovenije and the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course this is not true. However, today I would like to ask Minister Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, on behalf of the surrounding population, and also on my behalf again, the question concerning the post-war events at the Borl Castle. This is in the municipality of Gorišnica. In May this year, newspapers called, especially in the evening, about postwar killings at the Borl Castle. This postwar site has not been publicly discussed until this year. Even people appeared in the evening articles, as well as witnesses to the events that were reported by names and names. The basis for these records, which I mention, was the plowing of the lawn near the castle in question, where the plower stumbled upon the remains, specifically on the bones. In early August, RTV Slovenia reported that the Borl case was reversed because the bones of animal and non-human origin were specifically found. Some print media reported the same way. This is certainly true in this case, but the fact that the warlords at the Borl Castle created a mass grave remains, of course. Many people who live there are witnessing this, and I am at home in the immediate surroundings. After the war, I heard about it many times and was told by older citizens. It is also true that people were told that they were very shallow and that such plowing could actually bring, or on a day such plowing could bring, mortal remains. I ask you, Mr. Minister: What has your ministry done, in particular with regard to these records in this matter, to date? What specific findings are there regarding what is said and what is to happen near the Borl Castle? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u122	Mr. Minister, Dr. Bohinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much for this question, honourable Member. We have already answered a similar question from Dr. Joseph Bernick. 5. 2003. At that time, we also gave a response to the national assembly, namely 9. 6. 2003. Since then, a number of new developments have happened, so I would like to give you this very news in today’s reply. The police found out from the citizen that they had allegedly found human bones on the preordained field of Borl 5. 5. 2003. On the same day, officials of the Bureau of Criminal Police of the Maribor Police Department inspected the scene of the act, photographed the site and collected the bones found and sent them to the department for examination for pathological morphology at the Maribor General Hospital. In the following days, more informative interviews were conducted, basic information gathered to the extent of the alleged grave and alleged victims of the murder. The District Attorney's Office in Ptuj was informed accordingly. 28. 5. An additional crime-technical inspection of the site was carried out with the metal detector. The visit was also attended by the State Prosecutor in Ptuj. No trace was found in the survey to confirm the suspicion that there was a postwar beating site at the alleged location. On the subject of the review carried out is the Maribor Police Administration on 5. 6. 2003 notified the District Attorney's Office with a report. Immediately after the first interviews with persons who could be witnesses in the pre-trial and any further criminal proceedings, the investigating judge of the Ptuj District Court, on a proposal from the State Prosecutor, carried out the necessary investigations in June and heard these witnesses. Because the media released a statement from a person who was supposed to be reporting on who was buried there and who was supposed to be the liquidator at the cemetery under the castle of Borl, the police and the person interviewed. It was found that the person mediated only a history, a written assumption which military units could carry out if there was a cemetery there. His assumption was presented differently in the media, i.e. in a hard form. On 19 July 2003, a permanent expert from Maribor General Hospital submitted a written opinion that the bones found were not of human origin. The Bureau of Criminal Police, Maribor administration, forwarded an executive opinion with the report to the State Prosecutor's Office in Ptuj. On the basis of the criminal and technical examinations carried out and the interviews conducted, the burial site under the castle Borl has not been confirmed on the basis of an expert opinion and hearings conducted at the investigative judge. However, since the rumours and stories of the locals indicated the possibility that things related to the so-called postwar extrajudicial killings were happening in the wider area of Borl, the District Attorney on Ptuj, who was also directing the work of research into a specific location, ordered the police to try to find an alleged location where the victims were supposed to be buried. The police are still trying to obtain any useful information in the vicinity of Zreća in their interviews with citizens. This work falls within the context of the so-called "conciliation" action. However, the current fact, as I have presented, at this micro-location referred to by persons in the media, on the basis of this verification, which I have described, is that the cemetery is not found.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u124	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u125	All I have to say is that I can't imagine so many people around this place telling one story and the truth being something else. A number of people have appeared in the newspaper articles, and once again I can say that in these villages, Muretinci, Gajevci, men, Gorišnica, people talk about this all the time after the war. I want to know: Why isn't there an exhumation in this place that people describe? Only in this way could this assumption really be confirmed. That way, people who talk about it would really see that something has been investigated in this place. Only a metal detector clearly at this site or at this location does not show enough to actually explore it and that these rumors could either be confirmed or rejected. In addition, I ask: Why does it not come about because this definitively could confirm these claims or either reject them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u126	Minister, would you like to complete your answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u127	I'm afraid I can't answer this direct question about why there's no digging. I gave the information collected by the police, what investigative procedures have been initiated so far. I also gave information that the investigation was continuing. However, I believe that if there is any evidence that exhumation should also be carried out, an exhumation will be carried out in order to do so. But I don't have a solid record of it right now. However, I am prepared to gather further information on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you. My colleague Puksic has two questions, namely, the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment. [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] Excuse me? [[...]] My friend, Juice, please. Just a minute, buddy Puksich. You have one more question. Please, if you ask both questions at the same time, then we have easier control of Please, of course you have this right and I give it to you. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I submit, Mr President, to the way you conduct this meeting. So far, I have always asked the first question, followed by the answer and then the second question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u130	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u131	I have another question for Minister Mumorro, who is unfortunately not among us today. Personally, I think that the state or government secretary, Mr Bandelj, could answer these questions, which ministers who do not exist cannot agree on, given that the questions are put forward. That would probably be appropriate. Not that he is not here among us, nor are many ministers. I'll cut this second question short. I wanted to ask the Finance Minister about the implementation of the system law on the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. It is now clear that the government has confirmed that this year's natural disasters in agriculture have caused more than 25 billion direct damage. Given that various information appears in the media, it is once said that the government has taken the decision to devote 4 billion Slovenian Tolars to the most affected and that they will receive these funds in the form of a deposit in mid-October, I wanted Mr Finance Minister to actually confirm and say whether they are holding. It is very important for the government to approach the implementation of this law as soon as possible, as the damage to Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian countryside is enormous. Directly. Indirectly, however, there will also be damage to the urban population. The data to stop farming 8 farms in Slovenia daily, from 2000 to 2500, is extremely worrying. I want the Minister to answer that. However, if this matter is realised by the next October meeting of the National Assembly, as the media say, which I do not personally believe, then there will be no need to answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Now he has the word of his colleague Pukšič, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] question. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The minister's not here, so I'm gonna ask you a question. Slovenian railways have long been maturing with high losses. The annual loss figures are increasing, which, of course, indicates that business and habits of employees in the system need to be substantially changed. It will be necessary to increase revenue, increase productivity and, of course, reduce costs. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Are travel to meetings with chartered aircraft - meetings are in Hungary - justified and can tax money be used in this way? I'm still asking: Are the new contracts for the employment of members of the Slovenian Railway Management Board in line with the Government's conclusions, as Mr Bandelj spoke at the last meeting of the National Assembly? The third question is regarding the LOT2 invitation to tender. The minister knows what this is all about. It's an Ormož-Murska Sobota route. The first call was made by the Slovenian Railways in July 2001 and in March 2002 the call was cancelled, although they agreed on 2.7 billion funds. They then repeated the invitation to tender in April 2002. For nine months they discussed and negotiated the terms of the tender and the tender and concluded it in June 2003. At the time, this call was worth a billion more, that is, 3.7 billion. Only a month later, a member of the Magi Board came along. Andrej Godca's special letter, a letter, where they are also pampering the addition to the already concluded business for about 0.8 billion or 800 million assets outside the commission. So I ask the Minister and I want to get an answer: What will the Minister do, what will he use to determine the legitimate or unjustifiable use of the funds? [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u134	Of course, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u135	The second question is addressed to the Minister [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u136	Look, if I may just explain - this doesn't count in your time, Comrade Pukšič. It is now so that 30 seconds before the expiry of the right of speech the Member or Member shall receive a warning with a silent gong and then a loud gong. You have the right to ask two questions, so you are given the right twice three minutes to clarify the issue. Technically, it's not that easy to do this so you don't run out of words on the display after three minutes. I apologize for that, and we will have to look at how to do this technically differently. But I apologize for the misunderstanding. You have three more minutes of your right to speak. We'll try to arrange it so you won't be disturbed at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u137	Well, it would make sense that those six minutes together. The second question is addressed to Minister Kopač: Can you explain why the inspection bodies for the environment and space belonging to your department, despite the court's provisional order of the District Court - I have it before me - which has concluded "the provisional order that the defendants of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of the Environment, Space and Energy, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment and Space and the Administrative Unit of Kranj and Veko, the General Cooperation, are obliged to stop immediately the demolition of the facility standing there and there, until it is settled" or in point 3 "this provisional order applies to the legal conclusion of this judicial procedure", they did not take this into account. In fact, it's about renting a helicopter from Austria to demolish the facility. The next question raised here is: Can you explain who will cover the costs of performing an urban inspection, which is contrary to the above-mentioned order that I have read? Why did it have to be hired to demolish an Austrian helicopter after a simultaneous order had been issued? Who's gonna cover the cost of this helicopter? At the same time, a question is asked among the Slovenian public - and let me also answer this: why couldn't an Austrian helicopter land when it saved the lives of workers in the autumn ironworks who were poisoned with carbon monoxide, and had to take people across the Karawan tunnel, and then put them on a helicopter and take them to Gradec to the hospital? The result was the death of three workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Comrade Pohorec to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I am asking the Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Maramor and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Dr Vlad Dimovska. An annex to the collective agreement for non-economic activities in the Republic of Slovenia was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 July 2003. It was signed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and representatives of eight unions. This annex lays down the basis for the introduction of collective supplementary pension insurance for public servants subject to a collective agreement for non-economic activities. However, collective supplementary pension premiums will start to be transferred by employers by the end of April 2004 at the latest, at the amount of the amount dependent on the working age. These premiums are some kind of compensation for the envisaged 2.4 per cent increase in public sector salaries in August 2003. I ask the distinguished minister: How will the payment for collective supplementary pension premiums, instead of an increase in salaries in the month of August, affect, for the envisaged 2.4 per cent, the movement of average wages and, consequently, pensions and other social transfers which, under the law on pension and disability insurance and other laws, are linked to the movement of average wages? Since the distinguished Minister of Finance is not here for the right reasons today, but I think the weight of the answer is on him, I would like a written reply within the time limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u140	Minister of Labour, do you want to say anything? [[No, no, ……]] Then you'll get a written answer. My colleague Majda Zupan wants to ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. I regret that the Minister for the Economy is not here, but nevertheless I would like to ask a question in the area of crafts and small economies, to which the state has been very macho over and over again. The entry into the European Union next May will also be a step towards an open space for many craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, where it will be difficult without preparation. Appropriate legal incentives should enable them to cope more easily with European competition. All too often, however, we can hear on the part of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs that the state is acting in the opposite way because it is even taking up the possibility of effective competition with direct regulation. It is no wonder, therefore, that only 30% of the workers in the small economy are employed, while in other countries this share is also 70%. Amendments to the trade law, the new law on the promotion and development of tourism and the law on the internationalisation of enterprises are being prepared. We must also not forget the tax reform, which the Chamber of Commerce believes is being prepared in a very narrow and closed circle, and they fear that many craftsmen and small entrepreneurs will be forced to abandon their activities as a result of the proposed taxes. At the Ministry of the Economy, a law on the promotion of entrepreneurship is being drawn up to provide conditions and an environment that will enable small businesses to function and grow. In doing so, I ask the Minister of Economy: How can the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship, at the time of taxes proposed by the Ministry of Finance, create favourable conditions for the operation and growth of small enterprises? I expect an oral and written reply from the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Alexander Merlo has the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The oral question is first for the Minister of the Interior, Mr Bohinc, second for the Minister of Health. First. The police statistics for the period from 1 January to 31 August 2003 show that traffic safety among motor bike drivers has significantly deteriorated during this period, as 31% of more motor bike drivers died in traffic accidents or the consequences of these accidents compared to the same period last year. That's why I'm asking: How many infringements are prescribed for which a fine is prescribed or prescribed in a criminal judge have the police identified between motor bike drivers during this period and how much of these violations relate to an overrun of the maximum permitted speed? How high was the maximum speed overtaken between motor bike drivers and other state roads, and is the police sufficiently trained and technically equipped to monitor compliance with the speed limit between motor bike drivers? As the main motorcycling season is slowly ending, I am also interested in the following: what will the police do to improve traffic safety among motor bike drivers in the coming year, both in the area of control and detection of violators and also in the area of prevention? I also ask: Are the police aware of the fact that there have been some illegal motorcycle competitions in recent years at the section of the regional road between Mountain and Postojna, in the provinces above the Mountain? Have the police already acted on the massive violation of road traffic regulations by motor bike drivers in this section, and how does it intend to ensure future traffic safety on the regional road between Planina and Postojna and through both of these settlements? After the tragic events that we witnessed this weekend, when the five victims were 23 years of age, I hope that we may find a solution in correcting this law on road traffic rules in order to preserve our young lives. And an oral question to the Minister of Health. I'm asking: How much was the cost of treatment and rehabilitation damaged in traffic accidents in 2002? According to the data I have at my disposal, these are very large amounts. How much of these costs have Slovenia's health insurance received from insurance companies and what does the Ministry of Health intend to do to increase this share? And an initiative. I think it might be appropriate to refer to the data just heard from France and Italy, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] When radical procedures were used to drastically reduce offences and also fatalities. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you so much for the questions. I give the floor first to the Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rad Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you so much for asking. As you know, honourable Member Merlo, we have already implemented a national road safety programme in our country for the second year, projects are under way, including a special project, the Young Driver, a special project, a special project, Speed and another project, Alcohol, on foot. We deal with the most vulnerable categories in this programme with fully adapted measures. By the way, I should like to say that today, at the College of the Minister of the Interior, we have discussed the draft of a completely new law on road safety, which will be submitted to procedures and coordination here in Parliament in the coming weeks. There is important news about young drivers. According to yesterday's tragedy, I think it's worth paying particular attention. We will propose a so-called driver to accompany the young drivers and establish an institute for a beginner driver who will need additional training. Let me focus on your question, which focuses on motorbike drivers. First, the statistics or information you claim. By 31.8.2003, the police had implemented 425 repressive measures of different types against motor bike drivers this year, more than in the same period last year when 387 of these measures were implemented. Data, how many of these measures have been implemented against speed, we do not have this moment, but we can get it later because we need to do specific statistics on this. The highest speed, what you're asking, motor bike drivers are also moving over 200 kilometers per hour. We have no data on the highest measured speed, and we can also obtain it at the regional local level. However, I argue that the police are sufficiently qualified to monitor the compliance of speed limits between motor bike drivers and are also sufficiently equipped and that this control is also being carried out in a qualitative manner. As for the road between the Mountain and Postojna, the police that this is an extremely popular section among motorists. These are very often taken to this part of the road, and there are also violations. The police are closely informed and regularly monitored. When more motorists are expected on this section of the road, they are specifically organised. For this purpose, police officers with motorcycles are stationed there, which enjoy a lot of respect among motorists. These sections also occasionally contain radars in vehicles which detect speed exceeding photographic speeds. In the future, we are also planning measurements with radars on a three-legged stand that can be substantially better concealed. We will also try to ensure the greatest possible presence of motorists in this section. Moreover, I would like to add that, in addition to these repressive activities we are carrying out, the police are carrying out a series of preventive actions with regard to motorcycle drivers. You're probably the one who's following this up. This is, for example, a preventive action, a police experience as a tip, where police motorists, especially instructors, on specially prepared ranges produce or carry out some kind of safe driving school or display exercises, motorcycle rules, safe driving rules. The response is extremely good. Every police department is now trying to do this on its own ranges. Another such action is the IPE - International Police Association in Slovenia, where it is also a promotion activity of motor bike drivers from many countries, which is also intended for preventive promotion. And every year's national police championship in a skilful bike ride. In 2004, the 10th such police championship, which is very responsive, will be very resounding. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and is also used for various promotion activities for the safe driving of this category of road users. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I'd like to finish this first question first. Are you satisfied with the answer? Would you like more explanations? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I give my word to Minister of Health, Dr. Dusan Kebra, for question number two.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Member! The Health Insurance Office does not collect separate cost data, if I say so simply, of road accidents for the treatment and rehabilitation of the injured. This year, however, he started to introduce an application that will later allow him to collect this data. However, it has a calculated estimate of how much money should be recovered from the cause of the injury if it were successful. This estimate is about 7 billion a year. The answer is how much he's collected so far. So far, it has collected 295 million a year, which is a significantly smaller number. That is why there is now a law in Parliament or just before Parliament, an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which provides for changes that will allow for more effective recovery of compensation for accidents. It's basically two articles. One Article imposes a greater obligation, the provision of relevant data by the police, judges, labour inspectorates, etc. The second article, however, removes the necessary condition to date when damage can be recovered, i.e. if the causeer has been working with a particular negligence or purpose. The law releases this mark. Thus, it will be possible to recover compensation from each of the causes of the accident from his insurance, of course if the law is adopted in Parliament. As early as the first year of operation of this Act, the Health Insurance Office expects almost 10 times the amount of compensation that has been recovered so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Minister. Can we just get this over with? I give the floor to my colleague Rudolph Petan, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I am asking the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Dimovski. I'm asking: Could the social work centre be an intermediary in the payment of benefits from pension, disability insurance or any other direct transfer to the person who has been appointed, or should the addressee or beneficiary receive a direct transfer? Example. A person was appointed to be his brother’s guardian. He was entitled to a good hundred thousand tolars from pension and disability insurance. With money he had a social work centre, which pointed only one third of these funds to the custodian, which was, of course, significantly less than the day of care at home, and of course, by no means enough for, I would say, survival, but for care. And the rest of it was supposed to point to some kind of feeding book, but they never wanted to show it to the custodian. The situation only improved after the Ombudsman had intervened. I'm asking: Is the mediation, or is the patronage, of the social work centre in accordance with the legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Of course, this is a specific question, and I will try to answer it with legal references. However, if you are to intervene for a specific person, of course, I can also respond more specifically. Under no circumstances does the Centre for Social Work have a statutory role, but it is a law on pension and disability insurance. In the case of a transfer to any beneficiary, or you could also tell the authorising officer if there are legal reasons for that. However, it is possible that this remuneration may also be obtained by the guardian in special cases provided for by the Marriage Act, the family relationship. This is a case where the custody of a minor or a full-time adult is obtained, provided that certain criteria are met. In some cases, however, it can also be a social work centre. If custody does not take place, the Centre for Social Work may, in individual cases, take on this role itself. This may have been the case in your case. However, there is also a need for certain criteria by which the centre can determine this in such a case. It is clear that there are also supervisory possibilities for both the vindictor and the custodian. In your particular case, such a supervisory role could be performed by a centre or centre if the complaint is a beneficiary, or by the Ministry of Labour if the complaint is at a centre for social work.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you, Dr. Vlado Dimovski. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you. In any event, it is likely that there must be an annual report on how these funds are implemented. If only the beneficiary gets one piece and the other part is on some ledger, then he must probably have a look at such a book at any time, if I understand correctly. I'd like to add that this is not the only case. The same is true of the payment of maintenance in the area of late interest. There is a concrete example at the Celje Social Work Centre. These late interest payments are not possible unless workers themselves decide that this is necessary. Now the question is: they don't pay maintenance first, they don't pay late interest only if they decide it's necessary. Such mistakes and irregularities are not the only ones. It is the payment of pensions, maintenance and other assistance mainly in the case of older citizens. A number of such cases are in the nursing home, as the Court of Auditors found out, and some bears are fencing. I ask: What will you do about such violations? It's not one, two, three, ten cases, it's huge. This is a sad fact because it is a matter of exploiting those who are needed and which is why the institutions I am talking about have also been set up. It is mainly the exploitation of the elderly, the disabled, the disturbed, the children, the disabled. The fact is, it's the easiest thing to carry you around. It is sad if they are transferred around the state institutions set up to help them. I wonder: Are you preparing any measures not to repeat this will? The examples I have described are also described in the report of the Ombudsman. That's not how it's made up. Of course, there's a lot on the ground. This just confirms that the matter is serious and requires a serious approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you. One more word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u155	I can only ensure that measures have also been taken where controls have been carried out in such specific cases. You've listed a whole bunch of possible violations. However, we have also presented on the Committee on Budgetary Control some of the concrete measures we have taken in the homes of older citizens. In any case, where controls are carried out, there are also measures that are then controlled. In this sense, we want such irregularities to be addressed as soon as possible, if they exist. I share with you the concern that if such irregularities occur, they will have to be resolved as soon as possible. However, we also explained on the committee mentioned, what are the types of controls we are carrying out and to what extent. Thus, the Committee was very closely informed. This particular example of the Centre for Social Work Celje will, of course, be reviewed. As for the Ombudsman's report, however, the Ombudsman and I have already interviewed the subject of irregularities mentioned in the report itself. Of course, we will completely eliminate them, as we said at this meeting with the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you, Minister. The next question will be asked by a fellow magician. Janez Petty Officer. I ask for a system, a first question, an answer, and then a second question, an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you very much. So I will respond as you say. The first question concerns the field of civil servants and is therefore addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs, Dr Bohinc. It is in the state administration, according to Mrs Marta Kos, at least a hundred civil servants [[Quote]] "who have not been at work for many years, but still receive a salary that is not small." They probably don't have to make payments by automating. On the other hand, we have thousands of workers in production, in the textile industry, in the wood industry, in shops, not to mention, who have to work hard for 70,000 tolars or little more. A lot of people have to work overtime or Sunday work. Many of these do not even get paid on a regular basis, but by delay, unlike government officials. I fully believe in Mrs Marte Kos because she has played an important role. She was the director of the Government Information Service, so she is certainly well informed about the functioning of the public authorities. Such a way of employment has signs of corruption that undermines the foundations of our country and is offensive to those who must work hard for small money. In view of these findings, I request that a list be drawn up of hundreds or more of the employees who go to work without doing anything. I demand an explanation from the Ministry: Why is this happening, and how will this be resolved? That's the first question. Now I'm breaking up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you. I ask for the Secretary of the Interior's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u159	Dear Mr. Petty Officer! I have collected data from the Government's Human Resources Service because our Ministry of the Interior does not have this information, it does not collect it or it does not fall within its jurisdiction. But since you've addressed the question to me, I'd like to let you know the information I got. However, this data does not provide a basis for the credibility of Mrs Marta Kos's claims on at least 100 employees who receive salaries without going to work. I have information about 12 former officials who, from 28 June to 3 months, said to have received compensation, including yesterday, for early termination of their posts. [[Deputy Directors of Government Services]] either they did not fulfil the conditions or they did not want to become doers of duty. This information about these twelve can be drawn up in the list and transmitted to you. In addition, I am obliged to provide further information, which is also not within the competence of my ministry. According to the Ministry of Defence, there are a number of people - they told me in particular 23 - who for health reasons or other reasons do not do their job but are on their payroll. I would suggest, however, that this is not our responsibility, nor are we in a position to give complete answers to this question in order to obtain the required list from this ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u161	This declaration was made more than two months ago, before the appearance of these states, which you mentioned. That's why it's significant to me, and then I'm going to have to ask Mrs. Marta Kos why she publishes it in the media. Is this then a delusion? This story, I tell you, will not be so easily concluded. I will demand answers from one or the other, as well as from the government. I am referring the question to the government, however, how you will deal with each other's answers, you will decide for yourself. But certainly, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for answering what was in your power.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I'd like to give my word to the Minister if you'd like us to end this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u163	I would just like to say that, with confidence, I can say that there is no one in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, for whom I am responsible and who can provide complete and complete data, who would receive any compensation without being at work and doing it. For other ministries, it is likely that additional information can be developed within the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u164	Thank you. And now, Comrade Petty Officer, second question, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u165	I ask the Minister of Finance another question, which is not in the Chamber. Many of the questions were not answered, although the ministers were thoroughly informed about the question, they could prepare a written answer. The Secretary-General of the Government could have given an answer, and that is not in it either. This all points to the irresponsibility of the government and ministers to this institution of questions sent. Apparently they don't think that's right. I don't understand this ceremony that's going on today either. So it's another question. In 1997 the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia issued a decision concerning irregularities in the charging and payment of taxes and other charges by the Ljubljana pawnshop. The tax administration carried out a review in this pawnshop and identified a type of irregularity. In this regard, it also issued a decision to settle obligations which are certainly not small. The decision shall specify exactly what those amounts are on the 15 items. A few days after the decision was issued, in December 1997, the protégé appealed to the decision. Since then, nothing has happened on the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. They did not carry out these obligations to the debtor at all. Therefore, the general deadline for the enforcement of the decision has expired. So he was late. This, however, wiped the country out under its nose for its funds to which it is entitled. In this regard, I ask the question: What were the reasons why the Government, or Durs, did nothing at the time of enforcement? She was available for five years. How many such cases are in the record and how much are the total amounts of such outstanding claims, which then go down to the minus of the budget treasury and therefore the state is deprived.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you for asking. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Minister to whom the question is addressed is not present when asking the question must provide a written answer within 30 days.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u167	I request an oral response at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u168	In addition, it may require an oral answer, which will then be included in the next meeting as a question. So you request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much. We are putting an end to these questions. Jože Tanko will ask the Minister of Culture. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My question will be about the Media Act, which was in May 2001, which was more than two years ago, almost two and a half years ago, published in the Official Journal, which is expected to bring more order and more transparency in the media field. At least that's what the Minister for Culture predicted when the law was passed. All the provisions of the law should be long-standing and the media situation should be fully transparent. Issuers should publish, by the end of February, information in the Official Journal on legal and natural persons holding at least 5% of the capital, voting or management rights in their assets. The names of members of the administration or of the administrative and supervisory authority of the issuer should also be published. This should take place for the first time in February 2002, the second time in February 2003. The issuers should also report to the Official Journal within 30 days any such amendments to the Official Journal within 15 days. The situation in the media should also be quite clear, the state of ownership and concentration restrictions with or without connected persons, the situation as regards the compatibility of radio and television activities, advertising and television activities. Operators should also notify the programmes they carry by the end of 2001 and also establish programme councils and adopt an appropriate act. The Ministry of Culture shall be responsible for administrative and inspection supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law. I want to know: What is the manner in which controls are carried out and what are the findings of the Ministry of Culture in monitoring the media according to the content I have stated? I would also like to know whether any measures have already been taken and, possibly, any criminal sanctions have been imposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you for asking. Minister of Culture Andreja Richter, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! From the question you have now asked me very concretely - it is a pity that you did not send it to me very specifically in the morning. In fact, the issue of the enforcement of the media law - of course, in all segments, all segments, I have been given a very detailed report on the implementation of the law, according to all articles. I therefore propose that I answer only one part of the questions raised today because I would spend too much time or I do not have it at my disposal. In writing, however, I would like to complete the report with the information you have just given me. On a question that you have also asked me on several occasions concerning the implementation of the basic legal acts of the issuers, I can say that in November 2002 a regulation on the way in and the procedure for the registration and transmission of data from the media survey was drawn up. The issue is that a fundamental legal act of the media must be adopted by its highest authority. In this way, the participation of journalists in the regulation of internal relations in the media is also ensured. The Ministry has called on everyone who has been found to fail to comply with these requirements to settle matters. The procedure is demanding, for it requires, as we know, a call from the congregation. The vast majority of entities have therefore regulated their basic legal act at this time. So there are very few exceptions that have not done so. As I said, in my detailed report, I'm going to present this to you. As far as program content is concerned. The Media Act states that the Minister of Culture, together with the Telecommunications and Broadcasting Agency, has agreed on a uniform form whereby media publishers report their programming content. Both institutions have published forms that are the basis for the conduct of various administrative procedures on the Internet, to which our competent media inspector in the preventive inspection process has also requested broadcasters and television broadcasters to submit a statement on the programme scheme in accordance with these forms. The procedures and regulations to be followed are so accurately presented on our website and you will also understand this. In addition, I should like to say that media publishers have been warned in writing that they are obliged to report any changes to any data transmitted for the purposes of registration, the obligation to publish data relating to ownership in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, and the duty to obtain consent, to obtain more than 20% of the share, issuers, restrictions or prohibitions on the simultaneous pursuit of certain activities and, of course, the obligation to report on the programme shares achieved. The Ministry of Culture and the Telecommunications, Broadcasting and Mail Agency have thus harmonised the data of their records and have created a thorough review of the requirements of the media law. Most of the media, which did not comply with the above-mentioned requirements of media legislation, regulated this until this year's 2nd September. Therefore, we are now preparing a third phase for the Ministry of Culture, in which we will be against these, I will say, rare offenders use the envisaged penalties. I would really stop here, and I will also provide you with a written answer with the detailed information that you gave me orally today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you, Minister. Comrade Tankko still wants an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u173	I would just like to remind you that I have already asked some questions in writing in March. I received an answer, or nothing amusing that after almost two years of implementation of the law there was no application and therefore no action was taken. This in some ways shows that the inspector is not actively prejudiced in the field of control over the implementation of the provisions of this Act. The implementation of Article 64 of the Media Act is also a problem. It was also detected by the Ministry, even though I didn't ask. This is one of the key areas, as media information also appears on media purchases. Property schemes or so-called octopuses are emerging. Names are emerging, which I also call Slovenian media moguls, and in which huge media power has been concentrated. These are concentrations of ownership of administrative and voting rights which have not been established in accordance with the media law and for which the relevant procedures have not been carried out and to which neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Office for the Protection of Competition has responded. Similar examples are found in the field of advertising and the distribution of printed media. I don't think the ministry's only response is that because it takes an administrative and inspection view of the operation or [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It didn't do anything, a change in the media law. [[...]] [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u174	Thank you. Would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u175	I'd still like to answer. Thank you for that question. As I said, if they were very specific, because the media law in Article 58, when it speaks of ownership, has a very large deficiency in overcoming and reporting ownership shares. I can say that we have prepared and cleaned this part of the law in cooperation with both the Agency and the Broadcasting Council and with other actors who are also competent in this role. I can answer that the inspector can start his work, as we have said, including the implementation of the law in perfectness. That is why I also said that the regulations that were the basis for his work were prepared last November. Of course, this cooperation and the establishment are very familiar, and the broadcasting world as an agency as a result means the implementation of the media law so far. As I said, I've got your questions now, they're very complex, so I'm going to answer them in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you. Please, mate Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u177	I would only ask the National Assembly to discuss the Minister's reply in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. In order for these specifics to be available for more time, they can be processed in detail. I propose that the National Assembly also vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u178	This will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Thank you. A colleague of mags. Visjak, I would just like to ask you whether you are taking the initiative, specifically in point 1, because it is an exclusive initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u179	That's how I reported her.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u180	And then I'd ask you to file this in writing as a rule of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u181	It's been filed.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u182	Then I'll ask you another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u183	Yeah, of course I'll start with an initiative. The initiative has been given in writing and I have submitted it to the President of the National Assembly, who is presenting it to the Minister. I can explain it at the sitting and I will. Thank you very much. First initiative – first initiative - I will also finish in two minutes - namely: [[...]] Introduction of the Schengen regime to visas of countries not going with Slovenia to the European Community. Of course, this limit will be full of different border crossings, interstate, international, small-border, border checkpoints, crossing points and the like. Therefore, of course, this Schengen regime will control a large number of police officers. And, of course, all border areas, border congregations will also receive the presence of a significant number of police officers. Many congregations are a tourist municipality. This is also the municipality of Brežice, and probably also the municipalities at the coastal work and some others at the border with Croatia. And of course, the great presence of police officers burdens this local population, the development of tourism in these municipalities, especially if these police officers are present along the roads and, of course, also control road traffic regulations. However, I believe that the basic task of these officers is to control the green border, which is to control the Schengen regime. I therefore give the Ministry of the Interior and the Slovenian Police this initiative: Police officers who will control the green border and who will have a special task in the implementation of the Schengen regime should have uniforms different from normal police officers who control all other regulations, in particular road traffic regulations. This would, of course, distinguish them from the other police officers and, of course, be less present on roads when road traffic regulations are controlled. It is worth noting that the border municipalities will have many of these people, and it is right that they separate from each other, and that citizens will also be able to identify one another and know what their powers are and what the police’s ability to control the green border is and what the powers of the other police officers are. This is about the initiative, Mr President-in-Office. Now, however, the question sent to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlad Dimovski. This is a very recurring question which is and concerns Croatian pensioners. Croatian pensioners receive those who have retired after [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I hope that you will make an appropriate change in my time for this question. [[...]] Those who have retired since 1991 receive a pension allowance under the law, which, of course, is the difference between their pension in the Republic of Croatia and the lowest base in Slovenia. I think that a number of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who were not guilty or in any way employed in Croatia and, of course, paid before the year, before the independence of Slovenia into Croatian pension funds or then joint state pension funds and, of course, now receive a substantial lower pension than if they had worked in Slovenia during that period and paid in the Slovenian pension fund. I do not think that this is correct from the Slovenian state that these pensioners are now receiving substantially lower pensions than they would have received if they worked in Slovenia all the time. Therefore, we have received several answers from the Minister of Labour, and these answers do not show what the Ministry will do in this area. We have an interstate agreement with the Republic of Croatia, we do not have one with some former SFRJ countries, and therefore I specifically ask the Minister of Labour: How many Slovenian citizens who have completed the pension period since 1991 and therefore receive pensions through the Republic of Croatia and also receive a pension allowance through Slovenia? How many of these citizens are being paid out of the state budget under this Article 4a of the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRY republics? I also ask the Minister of Labour: How much funding from the state budget would it take for these Slovenian citizens and Croatian pensioners who have retired since 1991 and have paid this supplement under Article 4a of the previously quoted law, how much funding would they need to provide these people with comparable pensions as they would have received if they were Slovenian pensioners all along? Because I believe it is our responsibility to do something in this area to provide these people with adequate pensions and to eliminate this anomaly, which the current law foresees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you. With regard to the first initiative, as I said, you can put it in writing, so I will now not give the Minister the floor to answer it because business is not good. Article 248. specifies exactly how the initiative is to be handled. The Minister for Labour and Family and Social Affairs now has the floor to answer the second question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you very much. It's quite a few numbers you asked me about, so allow me to help myself with a reminder we've prepared for this purpose. It is the number of beneficiaries until 1.10.1991 who have obtained a pension until then, and the citizens of Slovenia who received a pension after 1.10.1991. All together, the first of the title of the law you mentioned, is the law on social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ, 1314. That's the first category. The other is 570. The total resources provided by the budget for these purposes were around 950 million in last year. So the specific numbers on the average of the supplements you asked for are about 40,000 or 41 thousand SITs. This is a pension allowance, as a difference between a pension that would be obtained under Slovenian laws and laws that were in force in the former SFRJ. For old-age pensions, this monthly allowance amounted to 48,000 in 2002, about 37,000 in invalidity pensions and about 30,000 in family pensions. Now to your question what happens to these users after 1.10.1991. I must say that we have prepared more information for the Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons Mothers Committee, which lists the numbers that I will now say, but of course they apply under certain assumptions. All together, for these 570 beneficiaries, it is assumed that, in order to obtain an average pension of some kind from September 1991, the total funding would represent approximately 30% of the monthly amount of pension allowances paid in the countries of the former SFRJ. In particular, if we take the previous number, it is somewhere 260 million at an annual level. However, it should be borne in mind that only those who have already acquired this right are dealt with in this issue, while those who could acquire and obtain the right are not included in this, as you know, a purely individual working relationship from which this pension is then converted. In order to obtain all this information, we have contacted all pension and disability insurance institutions, where I have to say that certain records are very disorderly and, of course, we have not received all the data for a specific name and a specific last name. That's why some calculations are here under assumption. Now to your question. We want this anomaly, as you called it, of course, to be eliminated. Because it is clear that our citizens must not be discriminated against because of circumstances which they themselves did not do. We will shortly prepare a supplement to this law or a different solution within the framework of the STD to eliminate this anomaly. Let me also say this: it is important that we have social agreements or social security agreements with all these countries, as you mentioned, for example, with Macedonia, we have such an agreement with Croatia. The initiative, however, was on our part to conclude such agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and the other countries of the former SFRY. I must say that the resolution of this issue is very complicated, especially due to the problems of the records we are facing in the PIZs, it is said, pension and disability insurance institutions. However, if you allow me, because I would like you to have very precise information on this, I will also prepare a written reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you, Minister. Mag. Vizjak, are you satisfied with the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I am glad that the debates on the committee, as well as the constant parliamentary questions, have only come up with, I would say, some analysis of the situation and also a willingness to resolve it, because from the dry answers I have received, I have concluded that nothing will move. So only in terms of an additional question, because accuracy is very important here, would I ask: When, Mr. Minister, can we expect this change, either a change of law or a change of arrangement, so that we can know when we're waiting and then start again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u189	If you'll excuse me. Of course, I didn't want all of them or it wouldn't make sense for all the details of what's really necessary. But let me tell you that we have a short negotiation of a social agreement with BiH and it has been found that there are actually three pension and disability institutions from which we actually want to obtain this data. Of course, for a certain relationship that we want, there is, of course, some economy that is needed. I expect that after this interview with the representatives of BiH we will have some final picture, but of course it will not be definitive in the sense that we want it to be. And then I think that by the end of October, we will have some answers and some solutions that we will then forward to the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. My colleague France Tsukati will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please, you have the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary! You will probably agree with me that the main problem of buying or restoring operating tables in the clinical centre is not whether they could or could not be obtained cheaper. But above all, they've been replaced where it wouldn't be necessary. However, we would urgently need an endoscope, an X-ray or other equipment. The incursion of purchases without taking into account the much greater needs of other diagnostic and therapeutic equipment. So buying without standards and without a clear picture of the state of all expensive equipment in the clinical center. That's the problem with this affair. For example, if the X-ray malfunctions in the E.R., the waiting line of broken arms and legs will be extended, for without X-rays, no traumatologist will send us to the pantry. Therefore, one of the main tasks of managing both the individual hospital and the entire healthcare service is to prevent bottlenecks in the chain treatment of patients. This is why it is so important that the hospital owner and funder knows how magnetic resonances are spread across Slovenia, where we need new endoscopes, what is the plan to restore operating tables in other hospitals, etc. Therefore, three years ago, the National Health Programme provided for the Ministry to establish, within three years at the latest, the standards of medical equipment set out in the establishment of professional bodies assessing the grounds for purchase. Since this has not yet happened, the operating tables will obviously continue to take place. For after three years, in July this year, you have adopted a regulation in which you impose on the Minister of Health, that is to say to yourself that in two years you will adopt standards and standards for equipment. The deadline set by the National Council of State in the National Health Programme is, therefore, an extension of five years. However, the question is clearly asked, what about at this time, how to prevent the repetition of the operating tables. That's why I'm asking you this affair, or I sent you a question last week, which is: What is the long-term plan for the replacement or purchase of expensive equipment in hospitals whose founder is the government and financed by public funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you, colleague Tsukati. And the Minister of Health will give an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for your question! Let me mention, of course, that the purchase of operating tables at the Clinical Centre is, of course, consistent with half of your definition, that it was not an appropriate priority, that they were not properly defined, but, of course, this purchase bears some other characteristics, for example, a violation of laws and also of economic efficiency, very much, according to our opinion, significant errors in this area. Let me also mention that this purchase, as a large majority of healthcare purchases, took place within health institutions from their own amortisation facilities. It is a so-called, simple reproduction, which is the task of health institutions and has relatively little resources within the state budget to invest in investment and, as you know, on the basis of the laws adopted, which we regret, but such fate is largely in walls. The standards for equipment are, of course, necessary, but there is no way they can remedy the decisions. The standard for operating tables has certainly been reached, but it is certainly not possible to write in standard that almost a new operating table is being replaced. At times, it is a matter of sound reasoning that must eliminate unnecessary or unwise decisions. Let me mention that the Ministry of Health is currently carrying out 14 different projects, until the end of 2008, a total of about 28, certainly you, a Member or your question is not intended for that part of the equipment that is purchased logically within the new buildings or the renovations of the premises, but let me mention, nevertheless, that there is a significant part of these investments for these equipment, for example, the completion of the oncology institute in the coming year, the completion of the Occult Department in Maribor in the coming year, the otorinolaryringological hospital in Maribor in the coming year, the surgery department in New Town and a few smaller investments, all related to equipment. In fact, the Ministry of Health does not buy much in particular. This year we renewed our call to health institutions to state their priorities with which to run for the Ministry of Health funds, and we received, in fact, for miracles a few applications, clearly, taking into account the fact that virtually all hospitals expect funds by the end of this decade in the area of investment in buildings. Let me mention what we're investing in at this time. This year, a computer tomography, typical equipment, where there is a narrow throat for a clinical centre in Ljubljana, will be purchased in the following year another linear accelerator for an oncological institute in Ljubljana and three X-ray machines in Ljubljana. In addition, at the last rebalancing, we also earmarked funds to increase the magnetic resonance probe, which is one of the investigations that you yourself mentioned that caused a large narrow throat while waiting for investigations. That's why I'm going to say two more sentences about this investigation. This time in Slovenia we have four magnetic resonance devices, which of course is very small and waiting periods in this area depend on the insufficient capacity of this investigation. In very short time, we expect two new devices. One in Celje and the other in Nova Gorica. The Ministry decided to allocate funds, of course, following a preliminary study of which location in Slovenia is most needed, for another magnetic resonance device, in the field, in those regions that are completely uncovered. As one option, we have Gorenjska do Ljubljana, the other is Prekmurje, and the third area, which is without this device, is Dolenjska. Let me mention that, in addition to the very need for this investigation, it will be necessary to examine what the current human resources base is to ensure that such equipment, when purchased, actually comes to life very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Would you like an additional question or request for an additional answer? Please. Minister, I'm asking for a microphone.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u195	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u196	Well, I certainly didn't ask what you were answering, namely, what the Ministry would finance and where it would finance expensive equipment in hospitals, but my question was: How does he intend to continue to control, control, monitor the use of public funds in hospitals throughout Slovenia? All public funds. These are about, like, 400 billion in health care. In the area of procurement for the renewal of expensive equipment. As a result, I have quoted the national healthcare programme, which requires of the Ministry of Certain Things and has clearly come to the point that these things can be repeated, they will be repeated, because you have obviously failed to perform these tasks that have been imposed on you by the National Health Programme. Of course, while you yourself have stated several times that you do not separate between objective and subjective responsibility and that it is also responsible for doing something, you should do something to prevent a harmful event for society, some have asked you whether you feel responsible for such a situation, not only the operating table of the clinical centre, but also, and you are thinking about your derogation and you gave an interesting parable, you said, "No patient is healing the temperature by throwing away the page of the thermometer." Well, somehow, if we're speaking in parables, I'd say you forgot to add here, unless the thermometer is broken. It is very difficult and very dangerous to diagnose and treat a patient. Especially if you call this patient Slovenian health care. Well, speaking of illustrations, let me mention another parable that spreads, that the minister is an apocalyptic rider who rides with fire and sword through Slovenian health and is followed by ashes and ruins. Make it half a joke, half a joke. I wonder if you like this image.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. You have one more word, Minister. If you want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u198	Well, some of the winged ones would not be answered, or if he continued on his own, perhaps he could come up with a lot of witty statements. I, of course, feel really relatively lonely as a person in a responsible position who detects irregularities, and I regret that honest irregularities also require or question the responsibility of the one who reveals them. Not the ones they're covering up. But that's what I have to deal with. I am merely mentioning the fact that such calls actually almost make public function holders present such things as soon as possible, as they could soon be called upon by a number of them to resign. I have the criteria for my resignation, at the same time I know that all the things that have been imposed on the Ministry over the past ten years, of course, cannot be done. I can also say that simple renewal of operating tables does not need standards. We have a giant expert who knows what he needs. A clinical centre with 6,500 employees, where there are only experts in this field or people for the purchase of equipment more than all employees at the Ministry. In these dimensions, you have to think about how a ministry relatively modestly controls the entire system of 30 or 40 000 people and a system of 400 billion people with less than 100 employees. It is clear that this system has occasional controls, administrative controls, has accounting courts and has fortunately a critical public and media that detects irregularities that we respond to and try to understand from these reports whether there is a grain of truth in them. Of course, that is not all, but in recent years it has proved to be good. We are convinced that what you call apocalyptic riding through health means clear appeals, clear signs and also much more critical, self-critical and rational behaviour of all actors in the health system. The results are finally seen, Slovenian hospitals as a whole operated positively last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you, Minister. We have two more questions. It is the turn of colleague Bogomir Zammernik, the question to the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Allow me to congratulate you on your contribution to solving the Friday case. Your mandatory instructions, which you gave, I am sure, and I think I can say that, even on behalf of the Commission, have certainly helped solve the case successfully. However, as you know, I took note of some of the findings made by the Commission. Now the information I've been talking about is delicate enough to make them public, so I'm asking you, in that part, if you can't answer in public to answer me in writing and with a code of confidentiality: Have you come to any conclusions about this? I also ask you what has already been presented in public, and these were the things we have encountered in parallel with the work of our commission, the arrests concerning the distribution of the Ministry of Transport licences. There was a lot of pump that raised some of the detentions that were done. I was warned from the New City area that some transport companies bought transport ministry employees, for example, two car Renault lagoons, that the set knew very well that the police report had been written about it and nothing happened then. I really wish, and I hope, that such a thing would not have happened in these last rebuttal arrests. Since I still have a minute left, I ask you, because somehow by accident, and by chance, I find it hard to believe, a public call for the Director-General of Police has also been made with arrests. And when I went to take a closer look at it, I noticed that it contained the conditions that candidates must fulfil - that they must know how to speak a foreign language; nothing says that they must speak a foreign language, says someone who speaks Croatian, can speak a foreign language already, or if you can speak a foreign language, but you can already speak two foreign languages, and maybe it meets the conditions. And that one of the proofs that is needed, including the police exam, is the exam that police officers can use to frame people and other matters. And this is a document that's not public. And how can a prosecutor, an investigative judge, now report to the post of Director General of Police if he doesn't have this police exam? Does this mean that it is written specifically on someone’s skin? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you, too. Before the Minister would reply, however, he should say the following: the raised question must also be asked, but not then extended to three areas. Your announcement specifically states: "I will ask the Minister of the Interior about the conclusions of the Internal Oversight Commission on the Friday case." The permit and everything else is not indicated; for the future, please. Minister, you have the floor to answer. We'll make time for a new set. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u202	I don't think it's gonna take me that long to answer these questions. First of all, I'd like to thank you for your congratulations. I am pleased that you and the Commission have personally assessed that my interventions have solved the complications of the Commission-Police relationship. I personally estimate that the police have done an important job together with the prosecution, or according to its direction. However, this work, as you know, is continuing, so you will allow me to provide answers to questions about the findings of the Internal Oversight Commission, however, in writing, with an appropriate degree of confidentiality. The same will apply to your specific unannounced issue regarding licences. This is an ongoing investigation and you will probably understand that - not only because I am not prepared because I have not requested this in the last few years of the report, but also because of the interest of the investigation that we are not discussing it in public. With regard to the invitation to tender, I would say only this: Of course, it is not written on the skin of anyone, which I most firmly assert. The terms of employment of this post or of this position have been laid down by the Council of Officials and not by the Minister of the Interior. The standards for the occupation of positions, official positions, as you know, under the law on public servants, have the power to designate an official council. While I was involved in this body's work, when we spoke about language, one of the world's or European languages was certainly meant, and the way to check language skills will be under the authority of the call committees and will certainly be interpreted as one of the European or global languages. As for a police examination or a police certificate, no one is closed or the invitation is only directed at the circle of people who have this test. Because it's possible for someone who doesn't have one and does one at a time. It is thus necessary to understand this standard and not in any way to exclude anyone who has not yet passed this examination. The same, exactly the same, in short, the ex post possibility of passing this examination also applies to the State examination, which is also a condition for the establishment of official posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr. Zamrnik, is still trying to challenge an additional response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, because my colleagues and on the other hand are displeasing, so I will really shorten this additional issue. At all, I think that this comment was inappropriate for you, Mr Vice-President, at the outset. Mr. Minister, you said any candidate can then pass this police examination later if he applies. I'm surprised, because article 70 of the Police Act says that a police officer who carries out this police examination takes an oath before the Director General of Police. Then the Director-General will perform this oath before himself, or how will you solve it?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you. In any case, anyone who does not have this exam will have the opportunity to pass this exam later. [[The voice from the hall.]] If we respect him.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u207	Details, in what way, in what way, this moment is not yet the basis. But I assure you, as I said, it will be possible for a police exam to be made even later for a candidate who does not come from the police ranks. Thus, on the official council, which I repeat has adopted this standard, not the Minister of the Interior, so we have also received explanations on the official council or explained this standard that it is possible to do so subsequently. And all those who want to apply do not have to take this as an official explanation of this official standard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you, Minister. And one last question. He will be appointed by his colleague Pavel Rupar to the Minister for Home Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Chairman. So, in recent times, a lot of ghosts are being arrested, and so, at least in the opinion of the public, but also in my opinion, unjustifiable behaviour regarding the mayor of Korjek, Mr Popovic, who, by the way, is still waiting in prison and waiting for the mercy and mercy of the authorities that are investigating him. I personally don't care about Popovic as a person treated for crimes, but I care about the procedure he currently feels on his skin. In fact, this is not the only mayor who has faced severe persecution in the last period, as Popovic has. I've got a few more mayors like that in mind. Like Slavko Mihelič, this is former Mayor of St. George near Ščavnica, who was persecuted and convicted of paying one daily allowance, in a place where he was not and therefore received one day imprisonment and a half year imprisonment, on condition of one year, for one diary. In my mind I have Stephen Prša, the Great Sunday, the mayor, who was waging ghosts who had been persecuted, was informed, with criminals being persecuted and, of course, because of these procedures he failed to apply. Then Sinisha Grmovšek. From the Bogotá. Also suspected of crimes, money laundering, possession, that is, exceeding the powers to rebuild the Bovec. The bells of Lah, Mirna Pec, persecuted by police criminals, were also brought before the courts because they sold too cheaply with their son to the congregation, likely to themselves. I am thinking even of myself, who, in the courts, has been fighting for justice for several years and which I believe is not justified for 500 old juries, and not for what I'm being convicted of. And on the other hand, I am referring to the Maribor municipality, the city municipality, where money was actually found to be laundering in bus purchases and use for a 100-million-dollar business, also, through entirely other companies, say Mercator-Ptuj mediated. Then I have in mind Viko Potočnik and the SIB bank, where the billions of dirt they've done and Danica Simšič, who's hiding her actions so badly now. However, I am thinking again of the municipality, the Koper municipality and the treatment of Mr Popovic and the treatment of Aurelia Juri, who was also the mayor, and whose Court of Auditors found a million overpayments in salary, and none of these last mentioned, was ever dealt with, either in criminal proceedings or on the basis of investigations, of course, if they were not, informed, that any of them would have been convicted. My question is, Mr. Minister: When will the officials of this country, regardless of the client, be equally represented or equal before the law? I also ask you if you can convey to me: How many mayors have been informed in the last two years, treated through criminal services and dealt with in various other procedures over the past two years? The Minister of Justice, who is unfortunately not here, is also not correct [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u210	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u211	That's what I wanted from him, too, and: [[...]] How many were convicted? And please, if you can get me a list of these people by the next meeting, that is, the officials, the local officials, the mayors, the municipal councillors and so on, for the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you. Minister, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u213	In fact, it would be difficult for me to say anything serious to this question. When will we be equal before the law - I believe that the fundamental principle of the rule of law is equality before the law. And no procedures with my knowledge are guided by the criteria of what function, what profession, what belief, or what similar personality is associated with. Therefore, you will certainly understand, Sir Rupar, that the police do not have information on which mayors or how many mayors there are under such or different types of procedures or controls, because we do not keep statistics according to political functions, but all the perpetrators who have reason to believe that a crime has been committed are led by the police in exactly the same way. So if you would like to answer that question, you should review all the records and identify the profession or function and obtain the statistics that you have already obtained. However, I would like to say this - because I am glad that you have also mentioned justice in the question - I cannot, I do not want, and I am not competent to comment on court proceedings and judgments against the mayors or against anyone else. Not only because I have no influence at all, but also because in the rule of law it is not appropriate to comment on judgments or decisions of courts, but there are legal remedies against them. The same applies to police procedures. As you know, the police, as far as their professional procedures in our country are concerned, are completely independent of politics, are dealing with and against those who are found to have been informed, the material that criminal services are suspected. The Minister of the Interior, none, not just the current one, has the right to impose anything on the police in this regard, to set any priorities for the police in this regard. And this Minister, who is currently, as you probably know, has proposed a amendment to the Police Act, which was adopted a few months ago, where it is explicitly stated in Article 2, on the proposal of the Minister, that, in cases and from the moment the Prosecutor takes over the prosecution of a particular crime or specific investigation, the Minister has no right to give any instructions to the police or to the prosecution, direction, orders, instructions or anything like that. This is a novelty that we have proposed, now specifically regulated by law and dealing with it would mean not only a harsh political interference with the work of the police, but also illegality from the moment this novel was adopted, and this ugly illegality. So that the selection of procedures, on whom they are running, on what rules of procedure and what measures are taking, and in particular on specific investigative measures, on secret police measures and on detention, on these issues the Minister of the Interior has no jurisdiction, has no influence and has no possibility to intervene at all. As you know, detention is ordered by an investigative judge on a proposal from the prosecution. This is completely out of the purview of the Minister. Special investigative measures such as wiretaps, follow-up and details shall also be ordered by the investigating judge on the proposal of the prosecutor. A certain part of the secret police measures is directed by the Director-General of the Police again without the competence of the internal ministry. In short, there are questions that are reserved on the one hand by the police profession, on the other hand by the judiciary, so it is simply not possible to link any of the possibilities of the minister here. I will try in consultation with my colleagues, however, to make an effort to get some kind of analysis of what you are interested in, but without any assumption that this is some serious planned, organized, as I understand in your question. You're kind of afraid or winking, in short, against the mayors. We're going to try to gather this information, but confidently, believe me, it's not about any category of people or public function holders being in any special position because of their own function. This also applies to today's issues of violations of public order and peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u214	Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much. In any case, I have also said that I also want a part of the response from the Ministry of Justice. I'm sorry he's not here and they didn't predict him because I wanted to ask him that, but I'm sure you have every authority to get this information, certainly. Of course, it is an indictory, but we find that the mayors of one or two parties are completely untouchable, are untouchable both by the police, by the investigative authorities and by the courts, because no one is ever held accountable, and on the other hand we have a list of mayors, independents, of any other party, not two of whom we both know, which I think are persecuted, that is, by the current tape and I am 100% convinced that the Barovic case is also part of this, and also the Barovic case is an example of this. All I would ask is that you provide me with this list of the mayors that have been investigated or considered in the last two years. You've been a minister for so long, and I think you have completely all the powers and powers to provide these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u216	Thank you, colleague of Paula Rupar. Indeed, you have only dedicated your questions to the Minister of the Interior, if even to the Minister of Justice, he would probably be here right now and could give a part of the answer. You don't have a word anymore. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like more. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u217	I say that I would like to explain why I mentioned the Ministry of Justice, I have asked, but there has been a mistake and they have not invited him, at least I am not absent from the fact that we understand each other. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u218	For the second time. Pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u219	For the second time, you should learn [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-09-29-SDZ3-Redna-29.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I end or end the agenda item "Messenger Questions". We will continue to do so on Wednesday, 1 October at 10 a.m., when the Prime Minister is present and he will answer three questions from opposition parties. I thank the ministers and ministers for their participation in the meeting and for the replies provided and for the adjournment of the meeting. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you and good night.
