ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u1	We are continuing to start the 35th extraordinary session, which we are expected to conclude, if you so agree, at 10:00 p.m., at 10:00 p.m., when we arrive at the decision-making session. I suggest we discuss this first. I suggest we start by continuing the 3rd point. The text will first be obtained by colleague Joseph Jerovšek. Just a moment, colleague Jerovšek, behind him colleague Rokavec, in a row. From the point to the point we would go according to the end of each point, without breaks. At 10 p.m., we'd go to the polls today anyway. If the points had been completed before that, they would have been put to the vote 15 minutes after the conclusion of the debate. However, if we had not completed all the agenda items by 10 p.m., we would have gone to the vote at 10 p.m. I see Comrade Tarchoon has a proposal for this. I'd like to coordinate on this first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it would suggest you think about it. Because if we vote at 10 p.m. and end it somehow at 23 p.m., it doesn't matter whether we finish at midnight or 1:00 a.m. And if it were to show somehow ten hours ago that there was still a lot of work left to do, I agree to vote at 10:00 and then proceed in the morning. However, if it shows that with some reasonable time we could extend this and end it today, also because of other obligations in the national assembly, we would then decide to do so today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u3	Look. I propose the following agreement. This is a vote by a two-thirds majority of Members and Members present, even by a two-thirds majority of all. That's why we have a rule of predictability here now. It is said that colleagues, exactly or very roughly - exactly - know when the vote will take place. I therefore propose the following agreement. If we were to conclude the agenda items before 22 p.m., then the chairman at the end of the agenda will suspend the meeting and say that we will start the decision 15 minutes later. If we do not complete all the agenda items by 10 p.m., I suggest that we go to the vote at 10 p.m. - with the chairmen and the leaders of the parliamentary groups - and I conclude a discussion within the last half hour before 22 p.m. whether we continue and end today or not. But I wouldn't drag constitutional changes into the night. And then tomorrow we'd find the right time to do a few more hours. Thus, constitutional changes to some necessary concentration and the necessary mood would also be completed. If I reach this agreement, then we will now proceed to Continuation 3. It's the day's work. First of all, a colleague of Jožef Jerovšek, a colleague of Franci Rokavec, has the floor. Only colleague Trofenik and colleague Pohorec are acquitted from 3 p.m. That's all. He's got the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Let me begin with the response of my colleague Kremjar yesterday that "no one wants to end the referendum." It is true, as it is written, that the referendum in this country continues to exist, even after possible changes. The real truth is that he wants to be disabled. In order to prevent the referendum as a direct democracy in this country, all instruments have been submitted if such a change to the Constitution had been adopted. To this end, the bombing of the public on the inadmissibility of referendums has been on the table for some time now. Here are various arguments, completely unjustifiable. And to this end, in my view, the current authorities have been literally forcing referendums in the last year. Forced referendums to create a negative mood against referendums in the public on the basis of the relative frequency of referendums. See, so many cases have already been described how the current authorities have adopted legislation this year, which it was clear that Slovenians are plebiscitely opposed to it. But you were stubborn. Now we have two cases where you are literally again forcing referendums - a problem written with a very inappropriate dictatorship of law and law and the law of hunting, where parts of civil society are once again predicting that they will collect signatures and will succeed. You're forcing referendums. And, of course, in this context, it is unsavoury in the campaign against referendums here, in the National Assembly, that is, Switzerland, which is a land of frequent referendums and is portrayed as the 'banana republic', as something of the worst in Europe. But "banana republics" are known for high inflation, after human rights abuses, through high corruption; I don't know anything about Switzerland. On the contrary, it is said that despite their costs, referendums are in fact the cheapest solution - they prevent corruption, the will of the authorities and so on. But, of course, it is that arbitrary exercise of power, which is the main motivation of the current authorities, which dictates such solutions as you now propose in these solutions. And, see, here, especially in the proposal, when coalition parties mention, there are formulations that actually prevent the referendum from being carried out. I agree that on every single issue, it is not appropriate to call for a referendum on every law. However, the formulation that, in the event of severe remedial effects on the functioning of the State, it is extremely volatile. In fact, this means abolishing the referendum, since whatever authority may be, it will be able to show that there are difficult remedial consequences to deal with. Last but not least, in all the referendums held in this country, you used exactly this argument - Minister Gantar, I don't know what terrible consequences there are in returning telecommunications inputs, different others. And also from legal history, lexicons are known not only to show that something can have difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country, but to condemn a person to death on the basis of one word. It's a lexicon law review. It is true that in the Roman state, when democracy flourished, I mean the tribunal or how it was, you called a state lawyer and said, "This and this makes it difficult for us to do something about it by law." And the lawyer of the state said, Your Majesty, tell me only one word that he has spoken, and I will condemn him to your death. It's a classic case. "Heavily remedial consequences for the country" will be able to be written and even justified by any authority. And this formulation means the end of the referendum. If we go after what you assume about these solutions, only to avoid the referendum, it is clear that this results in a desire for an absolute callous power. This comes from the machiavelism that this current authority exercises every day, and it comes from the fact that in a number of laws - say now the law of hunting - you have gone from the point of view: the country, that is us. Our interests, this is a national interest, and from this you take your right under absolute unanimity. If this happens, I hope there will be another referendum in this country. Of course, I reject these observations and the argument that this is an expensive thing. In this way, what is prevented is the cheapest, and it is a savings. And also these costs for the referendum are the only financial resources that are distributed evenly across the country, the only one, everything else is significantly more centralised and so on. Once again, it is a matter of limiting democracy, resulting in the abolition of democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u5	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague, Francie Rokavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! With regard to the question of constitutional changes in the field of referendum, I believe that we must be objective. Objectively, on the one hand, that the Constitution will not in some way result in unnecessary reproduction of referendums and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the National Assembly that, by making overly unilateral decisions and under-appreciating the arguments put forward in the debate, it also did not create the possibility of allowing or calling for procedures for the call for referendums. These are so-called previous legislative referendums, as well as subsequent legislative referendums. I believe that if we read the positions of the Constitutional Commission correctly, we can find that we are introducing a new instrument, an instrument of the so-called human initiative. And if, in the instrument of the so-called People's Initiative, we do not have this possibility in the so-called People's Initiative if the law in the National Assembly is not adopted, which has been explicitly submitted by the voters, and if we allow the electorate to sign a referendum on this proposal of the People's Initiative, we are also given the opportunity to the National Assembly to make the so-called competitive counter-proposal more or less accumulating the existing provision of the previous legislative referendum - more or less. However, in the follow-up to the legislative referendums, I believe that the ruling majority is taking over both in the National Assembly and the Government as a whole, that it is not unnecessary to re-examine the excessive number of ex-legislative referendums. In fact, practice - this is true, as the predecessor has just said - practice shows in this sense that in some of the solutions, there was too little listening in this house for the arguments that were presented in the debate on various laws. The second issue I would like to address is the role of the State Council. In fact, I believe that only amendments to Article 90, and not to other articles, both Article 97 and Article 99, which also refers to the role of the Council of State, can be made in changing the Constitution. This is one of the important institutes that the Council of State has in its competence to make a proposal for a referendum, in this particular case of the subsequent legislative referendum, when, in all the procedure under way, there is also total ignorance of certain positions that the Council of State may also give in the procedure, and that is why we have it. I think that - this has already been said, but also because of the magnetogram - that the dictatorship of positions is inappropriate. Inadequate in this - probably a mistake has occurred - that it is not an accumulation of the proposal, it is said, on the one hand, that it can make a request for a subsequent legislative referendum of a third of Members or 40,000 voters, that it is probably miswritten "or the State Council". The position is "and the state world". I believe that this matter cannot go together, which is why 40,000 signatures of the electorate and electorate should be cumulated together with the state council. I do not think that this was meant to be the case; both in the Constitutional Commission and in all the debates on this subject. I therefore believe that this should also be followed both in the follow-up procedure so that the Council of State has, as so far as it has, its explicit competence to propose the possibility of calling for a subsequent legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u7	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague, Joseph Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The referendum can be discussed with many aspects. I will focus on two, one from the point of view of the referendum practice that we have in Slovenia, which has been widely mentioned in this Chamber and which also allows different assessments of this instrument; from one saying that the authorities are simply forcing corrections to the referendum to say that the referendum was used as a key instrument when the National Assembly wanted to check its will also in the round of all voting beneficiaries. I wouldn't argue with this thesis if the legislative process were to go differently, then there would be no certain referendums. This thesis seems somewhat problematic to me because if we analyze it to the end, it raises the question of the concept of a referendum within parliamentary democracy. However, I would like to say that the referendum as a certain institution has only remained in constitutional order due to previous practice in the previous system, in one part, and also because of this key element, which has also led Slovenia to independence along this path; it is said, on some legal path. But what is true from the analysis of practice is that when political parties really wanted to check something at the referendum - or if we say earlier on the plebiscite - that they really did not believe the current and also the previous ones did not, referendum laws. In both cases, it is said that when we are talking about plebiscite and even when we are talking about the referendum that brought Slovenia to the Union and in and in NATO to shorten, in both cases it seemed necessary for all parties to be protected by a special law that would go beyond this normal use of the referendum. This argument leads me to believe that this basic arrangement of some, say, finishing is all that is needed. The second thing that I think is necessary to take into account in this decision is conceptual nature. If in the starting point of Slovenia, the political system in Slovenia is defined as a system of parliamentary democracy, then an instrument of referendum is in the way we have it, or an instrument that, every time it is used, in some way - conceptually, that no one jumps up again - suspends Parliament. This means that if we use it as an instrument of correction, but not, as I said, as this general agreement to verify the will of citizens and citizens, then really every time we encourage the situation in which the referendum takes place, we will in fact establish a situation in which it turns out that Parliament has not actually done its job. And that is also what should be kept in mind when we decide on what changes I need to make. However, if any of these dictates could be corrected, I would also agree with critics who are problematic about the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u9	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. I give my word to my colleague Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I believe that reducing and marrying the standards of democracy - and the referendum is one of its most basic forms - is unacceptable. It seems that the ruling coalition understands the election mandate as a decision-making mandate and everything that citizens have a different opinion on. A good policy that wants to practice good democracy must create a situation for a quality debate in which politics is only a good organiser and listener. And if he doesn't want to be and can't be a good listener, then a referendum must be available to voters. If legal standards are not in line with social standards, people will not recognise them and oppose them. And it's only right to stand up to them with a referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u11	Thank you. Dr. Micah Brace has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much. It is a crucial question: whether this proposal reduces or does not reduce democratic standards in Slovenia. It is obvious that they are diminishing, which means that the government, by proposing a restriction on the right to a referendum, considers that there is too much democracy in Slovenia. But the fact is, there is not much democracy in any country. At the same time, what the government is proposing makes it clear that it is not satisfied that people have a word; it is somehow unpleasant for the government. If we look at where the main reasons were in this debate, which were the main reasons why it was necessary to reduce it, we should limit the possibility of referendums. In short, there were too many of them, not all of them needed, because the content was not appropriate, because in any case people could not decide on such difficult things - classical underestimation of people. Let people make their own decisions. Then it costs a lot. Please! How much does a plane cost, and a SIB bank, and everything else, and that's nothing, right? That even the abuse of referendums occurred yesterday was spoken by Comrade Potsch. That participation in the referendums was very modest was also said. Look, if I follow, say, one of the studies that Parliament has ordered - "Posttransition State vs civil society", the Institute for Civilisation and Culture. I don't really know this institute. This indicates that there were 44 referendums. By the way, this institute has forgotten the referendum for the European Union and NATO. I hope this is gonna be special. It should be said that only seven of the 44 referendums were held. This is said to have been a big initiative, but the performances themselves have not been enough in 12 years to worry us. Because people have the right to say, and that's not right, and they start collecting signatures and collecting them -- so what, nothing happens, but justice has to be left to them. According to my most difficult word, which was used yesterday, it was "abuse of the referendum". Please, it's only power that can abuse power. The people who want to do something in referendum form, but they can't abuse their rights because if they don't have support, things fail. How can people abuse something if they have no power? Abuse is by definition possible only for those who have power. Of course, that's perfectly clear. Why have there been so many initiatives lately? Because of the imbalance. When there is a balance in Parliament, about one or the other, they do not have one or the other too much power, it is simply not possible to legislate through Parliament laws that run into public opposition. However, when one political side has great power, it can do everything it wants, and this is now happening in our case when the government and the parliamentary majority are literally brought together and everything proposed by the government, parliament or the government majority confirms. It is said that there is one obvious situation where the only referendum is the possibility that is a warning to the government, but perhaps the decision we have made is not the best. And finally, the government must have some corrective mechanism. And that's the people in the final phase. And if this people collect 40,000 signatures, yes, they say they have the right to have a referendum. In short, the criteria for this are well known. Let me also say that the referendum cannot be misused, only power, power can be misused. And in this case, I hope to claim that this is some form of abuse of power in order to further reduce the power of people. So, also, the Europeanism that DeSUS spoke about yesterday, that is, excuse me, nonsense. Each country in Europe has its own structure. Public research, it was quoted yesterday as, say, Stick's research and some other, here's one research done and so on. But what are the samples in these studies? They're, say, 300 to 700, maybe 1,000 participants, active, respondents. On the other hand, we have 27% of the electoral body that came to the referendum. My dears, this is another relationship. And a reference to expertise. That's all I want to say to you, but of course I'm a professional man myself. But remember, civil law has always been called a civil right to a period of united work, when a professional, legal profession said: no, but now it will be no longer civil law, but it will be social owners and property relations - amazing. And then this same profession after 1990 found that the best term for social ownership and property relations was civil law. Legal, please. We have the same legal profession's diametrically opposite views on the same thing. She's a professional again. And we have areas of economic knowledge as much as you want studies on the same problem that are diametrically opposite. And we also have research in the technical field, which has shown that something has to be done in this area and in this area, and then another study has shown otherwise. We don't rely on professional politics. A politician must be able to see ahead of time, based on what he sees, reads, etc., with his conscience to decide things. That's an essential question. So, in short, when we created this country, we set a high democratic standard. I see no reason at this time, at the time of entry into the European Union, for this democratic standard to be lowered. I therefore hope, of course, that the Government's proposal will not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u13	Thanks, buddy Brace. By the order of the present, I give the word to Franz Puksic. Please. By the order of the present; Ivana Bozič is not, Dušana Vuka [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u15	I'm sorry. Yeah, so I get it. You don't have any more time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u16	Mr. Vice President! I think you're in charge of the session, not Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u17	My screen goes off occasionally, and I can see it's red. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u18	I'm sure you'll have to give your honor today to the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u19	I'm sorry, Mr. Puksich. I just need to figure out the fact that it is. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u20	Your Honor! Whether we recognize it or not, we have a special arrangement of referendums, and it is valid that we say that a peaceful soul is weak, inadequate and does not meet the demands of modern times. Whatever the dramatist arches here are trying to create the impression that it is some government conspiracy that would like to end the last democratic institution, it must be said that this is not the case. In the Liberal Democracy Group, we are convinced that it is necessary to amend Article 90 of the Constitution, and we will also support the proposal to amend Article 90 as envisaged in the coalition. 97th, 99th and 170th, but not because it would obviously be too demanding and too far away from what has been before. In our view, therefore, the most important is the relevant regulation of Article 90, which must ensure that Slovenia is finally given a proper legislative referendum. So, we are in favour of a subsequent one, and it will be able to be called upon at the initiative of 40,000 voters, at the initiative of the National Assembly or at the request of a third of Members or of the Council of State. It would be time for us in Slovenia to get an institution by which the law, which will be given to the referendum, will be finally confirmed; so that voters will adopt the law if I can say so. It is now that these previous research and similar referendums cause problems, particularly in the definition and interpretation then in the texts themselves. You know, when we ask if you're up for this and that, few questions are raised so that voters disagree with these questions. Or it can also be translated into real law later into a text to be drawn up by the National Assembly, of course there is another issue and a great deal of problems, which has happened to us in this reference, and in the previous and the latter. Therefore, the call for a referendum on the law submitted by the voters should also be made possible, and the so-called people's initiative, for which most of us are taking or taking part, has not been accepted by the National Assembly. Of course, the National Assembly must have had some reason not to accept this law at the time. In this case, we could also arrange, through this article, for the National Assembly to give its competitive law to the referendum if it thinks that the law drafted by voters through the People's Initiative is inadequately saving some material. We therefore think it would be useful to move away from any general rejection of the amendment of the referendum regime to a genuine legislative referendum. So that the intact law that voters would adopt at the referendum would then also be actually published in the Official Journal and would also be in force. It won't be convincing if you keep pointing your finger at usurping power, and that's why you're afraid of human initiative, and on the other hand, we're the ones who are turning to human initiative because we don't have any other options. I think there are quite a few experiences elsewhere in Europe, although I agree that many countries have arranged referendum decisions in different ways and that, in practice, with the exception of the two countries, they do not even know how to referendum decisions, at least not to the extent of Slovenia, Switzerland, Italy and others. Yesterday it was heard how this is done in Austria, that there have been practically two in the last 50 years and so on. So, in the Liberal Democracy Group, we will support the amendment of Article 90, with the relevant views that are prepared, and we will not support the proposal to amend Articles 97, 99 and 170 of the Constitution. I apologize for taking this time of discussion to present the position of the Group of Members, because I am not at the time of the opening presentations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. In doing so, we have exhausted the debaters who still had the time available. We have 23 minutes left, following Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. The replica is also within the set time. I will therefore ask if, in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone wants to discuss it for a while? Please sign up so I can write everything down. I have it written down: Pukšič, Zląb, Tsukjat, Jakič, Kremjar, Petty Officer. Anyone else? Run. Brace used to be. I hope I have everything written down, Brac, Pukšič, Zląb, Tsukjat, Jakič, Kremjar, Petty Officer and Potz. After two minutes, that's how it's gonna work. Comrade Brace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u22	I would have replicated to Mr Anderlich when he said, "This is the last democratic institute." So, I'm sorry, but I didn't hear any of us discussing this issue talk about how, if this were to happen, the last democratic institute would fall away. It's a demagogy that you have very well trained, and you're trying to sell it well. But the fact is, no one said that and no one thinks that in our client. However, we believe that democratic standards are declining by this, and we see no reason why it needs to be reduced. So once again, there were many referendum initiatives, very few referendums. So people felt the need to do something to get involved, to express their opinions. Some have been successful in collecting signatures, others have not been successful. Now it's too much, and now it's not okay. Let us, however, leave this opportunity that we have, because it will not make anyone worse to say so, but it will remain a good feeling that Slovenia has, however, preserved some of those fundamental postulates of a democratic state that it initially established when this country was born. And I would say once again: don't cause any confusion here with statements that aren't real, we didn't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u23	Thank you. My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Changing the Constitution in this part, where the possibility of direct decision-making is reduced, can also be very dangerous for democracy. The amended Constitution is, of course, possible by a two-thirds majority and if the power of power is such that it has it, then democratic standards can, unfortunately, change by its will. There are two ways of direct decision-making, these are elections and referendums. I hope that citizens and citizens will experience this dislikability, the possibility of withdrawing their decisions through a referendum. Maybe even someone will come up with some other proposal to change the election, too, I don't know. It seems to me that those who today have the power to change and abolish democratic standards would prefer to replace this Slovenian electoral body. Because today, after they got the results when they got the power to make decisions, they don't trust him anymore. They trusted them just as long as they didn't get that power. That is why I think this is far below all political standards. And what is stated in point 6 is that the referendum will apply if at least a third of the electoral beneficiaries are present. This is just a comparison with Serbia. I think that Slovenia can compare itself with Switzerland, there are no such restrictions, and Switzerland is not lost in the economy and not in the social sphere because of the referendums which it has many, so it has not lost on democracy. Let us follow such a state, not Serbia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u25	Thank you. Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much. If the referendums were to shape the fate of citizens and states, each country would collapse, that is perfectly clear. There was a lot of talk about referendums, and no one mentioned that there could also be a referendum on the death penalty. Such a referendum would certainly have been successful in Slovenia, which would mean that Slovenia would have returned to the time of the former Yugoslavia where the death penalty was a constitutional category. The first country to end the death penalty after World War II was Germany and Austria, not because they were such a humane state, but because they avoided punishment for war criminals. In the 1950s, European intellectuals with great pains from Camus to Kesstler achieved the abolition of the death penalty in Western European countries. The United States has not done so, so the United States is a brutal and non-democratic country that stands at the heart of the murder to intimidate criminals.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u27	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u28	But in fact, it's the opposite, more than execution, more new crimes. And that is all I fear is that there is actually a real possibility that in this typhoid of all possible referendums our right hand will also require the death penalty again in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u29	Thank you. Comrade Tuck, you have the floor. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I don't think there was any feeling in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u31	Please, colleagues and colleagues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u32	the main points of the government proposal, i.e. the second paragraph of the government proposal states: "The referendum is not allowed to be declared on emergency laws." [[...]] If I ask myself what laws we adopt by emergency procedure, of course beyond the rules of procedure and despite the rules of procedure, then I do not know which law will follow the normal procedure at all, because if the government wants to prevent a referendum on some stupid law, it will propose it following an urgent procedure. Secondly, the referendum is not allowed to be declared in the event of a direct impact on the implementation of the State budget. I wonder, however, which law has no impact on the implementation of the budget - positive or negative? And for the third time, a referendum will not be allowed to be called if it or the law could have counterconstitutional consequences - again, who would decide. Even so, laws that may or may affect constitutional rights shall be decided by the Constitutional Court and shall also require the National Assembly to coordinate this. Taking these restrictions into account, then there will be virtually no more law on which to call a referendum, but whoever will qualify for this procedure. I am not surprised that the Government wants to limit so much the content that the referendum could still address. I am surprised to see Members of the people agreeing to such an amputation of human decision-making. I'm surprised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u33	Thank you. My friend Roman Jakič gets the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Look, today, at least now in the end, it's been said that there's been a mix-up with statements that aren't real or they're talking about the main point. Above all, the public needs to know what the main point is. And here he's actually manipulating himself, and I've been listening to this manipulation all night and today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not end the referendum with a proposal. No, the subsequent legislative referendum based on the adopted law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is binding. However, it repeals the previous legislative referendum, which was held by the majority, at least in major cases has been used for manipulative purposes. If the people or the electorates and the electorates grant a mandate to 90 Members and Members every four years to decide, co-form and form on their behalf and, of course, adopt the law, that is the will to be respected. Therefore, there is no need for a preliminary legislative referendum when Roman Jakič, or Tsukjat, or anyone who introduces a law, and we should take a preliminary decision on this law by citizens and citizens, but if we have a mechanism of Members and Members to deal with it, they should take a position on the procedure and actually adopt it. And if then no one is willing to accept what has been adopted in this national assembly, then all right is legitimate, of course, that a subsequent legislative referendum is required and decided on by the people. Therefore, of course, there is no need to mislead the public in order to end the referendum. We want, of course, to bring things to European level in the field of referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u35	Thank you. My friend Tone Anderlich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u36	It would be right for this legislative body to really put its role in the place it is going to play. And the possibility of calling for previous, in particular consultation referendums has been widely understood to date as if the National Assembly did not hope to decide on a social issue and that this decision would put this decision on the electorate. We want, of course, not only to do polls among voters, to do some public opinion research, by which we will find out what would be best and then we will legalise it. And if, by chance, it is not possible to legalize it in the same way as the question was, then in one way or another, shouting and screaming, for any question can be interpreted differently. [[Mr Jerovšek, when you approach here, you will have the perfect voice, but we will talk about it first.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u37	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u38	When a speech was made on the question of restrictions and the Constitutional Court made clear when it addressed the law on referendum and human initiative, it was necessary to define in the law which issues the referendum could not be considered. However, things that simply need to be assessed by the legislator and the government need to be provided for, issues where harmful consequences could arise, but they need to be addressed on their own, rather than imposing this responsibility on the electorate. Once again, I would like to stress that we will support Article 90, which, in our view, is adequately addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u39	Thank you. My friend Leo Kremjar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Both of us and my colleague Brejc, and of course all of us sitting here, we know that a really small sample of different research is true. But we also know how this pattern is made and actually reflects a population like it is. A survey, or survey, that I discussed yesterday, and some of the information from this, however, speaks of what people think about certain things. And since we have so many references to this precisely in relation to the referendum, which is also right, I would like to highlight some other information from what is very clear and also say what people think about us, about our work and about the consequences through the referendums. Among other things, on the question that you think is the main reason for the referendum call, almost 50%, well, 47% of people have identified themselves as 'policy cannot be reached with an acceptable solution to the problem'. And that, of course, is true. [[The ad from the bench.]] That is, of course, true, and we have heard it again today. Every time someone is not satisfied with the outcome of the vote in the National Assembly, let him continue to say, but we will "set up" to say so, a referendum. And, you see, gentlemen, if I turn to you, here's the problem. And there's something else that people in this poll have answered. According to the polls, "a referendum is an urgent tool for democratic decision-making", 38.3% of those surveyed think so. More than that, 56.7% are convinced that referendums are unnecessary, as democratic decisions should be taken by parliament or elected Members. That's what people think. And just that, an addition to what I said last night. Let's tell the truth: no one cancels the referendum. I repeat, it only regulates things, and the proposal before us regulates things in a more normal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u41	Thank you. I give the word "magic." A little thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Kremjar, this is exactly what the study shows - that Parliament has not done its work, and this is actually the right interpretation. They are not satisfied, so this referendum was unnecessary. But how do people think? Because the ruling coalition has dominated the people's will. Yes, that is how it is explained - we should make a different decision, and they have corrected us, Mr Member. That's right. An emissary of human will. If you would respond to this, all those referendums that have rejected Parliament's decision show this - arrogance. Yeah, that's an interpretation. And they say, if you'd listened to the arguments, then you'd have decided otherwise, and the referendum wouldn't have been necessary. And he really wasn't needed. Therefore, it was not necessary because Parliament should have adopted this. But since he did not, his will and the need to correct was his will, and he corrected correctly. There is something else about Parliament: Parliament and indirect democracy also have this function, or it has also been created because all things cannot be decided directly. Therefore, when Parliament does not do so, it must be human will. If this were technically possible, perhaps in electronic form with future development, our role may be extremely small or even pass. That's the reason, you know. And all that has been done so far through the referendums are the most transparent decisions and also the most representative. That is why I strongly reject any speculation about representativeness because it is the undermining of the fundamental principles of human will, which is everywhere in the world, Mr Kremjar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u43	And my colleague, Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u44	Thank you very much. It is right to clarify that all the role played by citizens and citizens to Parliament, even after amendments, if adopted, will remain. Because any decision taken against the will of men will be able to correct this will of men. So talking about lowering the standard of democracy is a simple lie. It is not true, however, that it will be difficult for the opposition to influence Parliament's work in a way that makes its work more difficult. That's right. Since, according to my records, more than 40,000 signatures have been collected in three cases in all of the years and in all the major cases, this was the law requiring that the ambassadors, foreigners and the Church not return to the forest but not allowed, the Constitutional Court has banned it. The second was an example of electoral legislation and the third was an example of trade opening times. In all other cases, the opposition, which does not have enough votes, decided that in the national assembly itself, it would be possible to call for a referendum. You can also do so in the future, only ladies and gentlemen, not before deciding the National Assembly, but later, because otherwise it means for two, three or more months of postponement of the entire debate in the National Assembly only to give effect to some of the views of a part of this Parliament. I think we will do nothing but benefit and reduce democracy if we accept the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u45	Thank you. I also give the floor to representatives of the government if they want. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u46	It's the government's legal department, the principal. Realising that it is actually very difficult to convince a certain person, however, allow me to make some of the arguments cited by the expert committee or expert group that proposed changes to the government in the field of the referendum. I must say that within this group has been devoted much time to the issue of whether the proposed amendments or whether the proposed amendments do not undermine the possibility or, as has been said, democratic standards in the field of referendum regulation. However, there was a predominant view that quantity does not yet mean quality. A large number of referendums do not yet represent an extremely large democratic power for people. The group therefore decided to propose that we should not allow a preliminary legislative referendum in the Constitution, but that we should actually make a detailed, precise and, above all, from the point of view of professional shortcomings, an ex-post legislative referendum. This is also proposed in article 90 of the Government's proposal. As regards the limitations of individual referendum issues, I would like to point out that the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative contained the same or similar provisions as the Government proposes at constitutional level, that this provision was judged by the Constitutional Court and ruled that it did not establish unconstitutionality in the content. However, it has found that it is a matter that needs to be regulated at constitutional level. Therefore, in fact, it is more or less fortunate - I might agree that, given the formulations, it may be necessary to consider whether they actually reflect what the government wanted to limit - let us continue to discuss or propose more appropriate solutions in the constitutional law. However, while stressing the support of Article 90, I would like to draw attention to Article 170, namely, the constitutional referendum is now open only to the initiative of Members. The government proposes that this referendum should also be proposed in the future by 40,000 citizens, so the government considers that these changes are necessary and, of course, suggests that you vote for them too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u47	Thank you. This concludes the debate. Time is running out. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide in the framework of the vote at the end of the last item of the agenda today, within the time frame of the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Initiation of a Procedure to Change the Constitution of Slovenia by Draft Constitutional Law - EPA 701 /III. We have a time of discussion planned: one hour and 25 minutes. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Articles 112, 114, 118 of the Constitution by means of a draft constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to a government representative to explain the Government's proposal. You have two minutes, please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u48	Mr. Vice President, the House of Honor. With regard to these proposed amendments, I would like to draw attention to the following. In fact, the government proposes that this issue be dealt with in a comparable manner to other parliamentary systems, so that ministers are no longer appointed and resolved by the National Assembly, but by the President of the state of advanced Prime Minister-designate. As a result, the possibility of interpretation of the Minister's work would also be eliminated. What led the government in proposing such solutions? Above all, the experience is complicated by the appointment of some of the governments so far. Indeed, the repeated procedures within the National Assembly, even when we suddenly had two Prime Ministers and we did not know who to take over, when we had a government that no longer had a mandate and even carried out only its tasks. In the face of constant problems, what is actually the "science" in the slogans that go to the government after the expiry or after the end of the mandate, these were all the reasons for the proposed solution. With a comparative legal review, we can find that it is actually a German chancellor system that is being tried, tested and, therefore, shown to be in force in our regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u49	Thank you. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, I give the floor to Dr. Andre Bajuk, for the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, and then to France Lenka, DeSUS. Please, you have the floor, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That's a good-bye to everyone. The parliamentary system is characterised by the responsibility of the Government as the institution of the executive branch of the legislature. However, when it comes to forming a government, Parliament may or may not play a formal role. In the UK, the monarch, the so-called king or queen, appoints the first minister, the Prime Minister, and on the proposal of the Prime Minister appoints ministers. In the German system, the Bundestag elects the Prime Minister - Chancellor and is formally appointed by the President of the State. The ministers are also appointed by the President of the State, but on the proposal of the Chancellor, who is the Prime Minister. In Sweden, the Prime Minister appoints parliament and then the Prime Minister appoints ministers himself. In the Italian regime, the Prime Minister is appointed by the President of the State, and then by the same President of the State, but only on a proposal from the Prime Minister, appoints ministers, but after appointment the government must present itself and receive the so-called investment in Parliament. Our constitutional arrangement in this area, as stated by its direct appointment of ministers in the National Assembly, is a particular feature that should be seriously, soberly and responsibly reviewed. In addition to this particularity, the appointment of ministers directly in the National Assembly, which is an unusual approach to parliamentary systems, has been pointed out by experts to other specialities, including the duality of the government voting process in the National Assembly, which allows, at least theoretically, the creation, which they call, palely designate, unusual political positions, such as the support of ministers by a different coalition in the National Assembly than that elected by the Prime Minister. Another such feature is the replacement of the Minister in the National Assembly, this is the resolution and appointment of a new one, which actually reduces the responsibility of the Prime Minister for the functioning of the entire government. So this is the situation. What does the government suggest? The government proposal is intended to be a consistent implementation in Germany of the model already tested. It is supposed to be the elimination of the inconsistencies that occurred at the time of the adoption of the Constitution in Novi Slovenija that we believe that, on behalf of simplifying the procedures, the government proposal goes far beyond the role of the national assembly as the supervisor of the executive branch and unacceptably eliminates the necessary balance between Parliament and the government. The proposal itself includes an inviting promise that it would only be possible to retain the second paragraph of Article 112, which provides that the Minister must present himself before appointment to the competent committee or to the working body of the national assembly and answer the questions raised. In the same breath, however, they tell us that we should further examine the purpose of maintaining this provision in the Constitution. Whether this is a promise that maybe the government and the coalition that supports it would be willing to keep this constitutional provision at the level of the government law so far, we do not know. Avendar, even if this is the case, what this would mean when they propose, at the same time, in Article 118, the deletion of the interpolation to an individual minister. Your Honor, this proposal means simple removal as an unnecessary interpolation institute. How, however, in such an arrangement, the National Assembly in any future composition may exercise its responsibility to control the executive branch. "This should be provided on the basis of a constructive non-trust." So only the government as a whole, while casual control would be left to the institution of the question. Dear colleagues, Members' questions. Of course, we put a lot of them up, but what answers? We are not prepared to support such a proposal under any circumstances in New Slovenia. According to our assessment, the proposed changes in this area are nothing more than an obvious expression of the strong desire of the government and the ruling coalition to completely reverse the existing system of power-sharing, balance and brakes provided in our constitution. Such a proposal in itself is totally unacceptable. It is even more unacceptable right now, because this consideration is taking place during the period when we are at the threshold of our integration into the European Union, at a time when it is far from clear what the final role of this national assembly will be in the future, just now that we do not know whether most of this national assembly is ready to support the proposal that the positions of the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will be binding on our government in the exercise of its new powers in accordance with institutional arrangements in the European Union. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That is why we believe that now is not the time for this national assembly to give up its supervisory role over the functioning of the executive branch. The adoption of this government proposal would, according to our assessment, be crucial for the continuation of the existence of the National Assembly as a relevant branch of the independent legislative authority. In New Slovenia, we are prepared to cooperate and contribute to a serious national debate on the need to resolve certain constitutional issues in this specific area. Our readiness and constructive attitude have been clearly and publicly demonstrated by our support and co-proposal, together with our partners in the Coalition of Slovenia, for certain changes in this area, which, according to our assessment, are the appropriate basis for resolving these issues and will be the subject of discussion at the next point. However, we will not support this government proposal in New Slovenia, and we suggest to all of you that today we also join forces to reject it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Lenko has the floor for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow Members! The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners has already been identified on the Constitutional Commission before the proposal for amendments to the constitutional provisions relating to the formation and functioning of the Government and the State Administration. We disagree with the proposed amendments and do not support them. We believe that in the Slovenian Constitution we have this issue properly settled. The election of Members to the National Assembly, or the results of the elections, has already provided an answer to certain questions raised before the new term of office, when, on the basis of the electoral results and after consulting the parliamentary groups, a proposal has been submitted by the President of the State for a mandate, it shall be decided by the national assembly by a majority of the votes of all Members by secret ballot. This and other details are set out in Article 111 of the Constitution and so on in the future. Article 112 of the Constitution provides for the mode of appointment and discharge of ministers proposed by the Prime Minister to the State Assembly for approval or appointment. In our opinion, this provision also corresponds to today's political situation. There have been no major problems in this regard, and we do not see the reasons for this to be amended accordingly by paragraphs 114, 116, 118, 121. By means of a government proposal, we will adopt these provisions of the Constitution, which would take away the powers of appointing ministers and delegate them to the President of the State, thereby increasing his powers and increasing his power. The appointment and discharge of ministers following this proposal would be under the authority of the newly elected Prime Minister and the President of the Republic, i.e. without the indirect influence of the electorate. Another fact needs to be mentioned. Before entering the European Union, Slovenia shall, with full legal membership in the European Union, significantly increase the power of the government to decide in the European Union in matters and reduce the powers of the national assembly, which is the only directly elected body of the State from the citizens. We are already having difficulty finding the most appropriate solutions to future relations between the government and the National Assembly on the issues we are referring to the European Union bodies. If we take further the powers of appointing and dismissing ministers from the National Assembly, in our view, we will have a direct impact on the formation of the government for our citizens too. However, my intention is to oppose our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u54	Respectable present. According to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend its internal and external organisation and the way in which it operates is, of course, a derogation from parliamentary democracy. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its explanation, assures us and otherwise argues that it is a matter of establishing a parliamentary democracy or a parliamentary system, we are assessed and we are confident that such aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia constitute a derogation from the parliamentary system. This is an essential issue at this time. Does Slovenia want to withdraw from the parliamentary system or does it not? According to our assessment, the SNS doesn't want this at all. The parliamentary system has, as has been shown in the past in our country, the Republic of Slovenia, and this has also proved to be elsewhere in the world, where the parliamentary system has many positive things, and all countries are striving to preserve the values of the parliamentary system and not to destroy them in the form of increasing the role of one of the decision partners. The changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, most importantly in 114th and 118th articles, concerning the organisation of the government and the interpretation and indirect elections of the Government, are, in our opinion, a violation of the principle of the division of power. In our constitutional order, so in the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia we have introduced the division of power in order to prevent the possibility, abuse, concentration of power on one of these branches of power, the legislative, executive or judicial branches of power. With precisely defined powers and elements of control over one another, we have achieved or tried to achieve and strive to destroy the possibility of abuse of one branch of power. Unfortunately, abuse occurs. The abuse occurs in Slovenia because the situation is what they are. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that the content of the proposed amendments to the Constitution by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is difficult, according to our assessment, to the first part if I touch on appointment and discharge. We have two types of control over the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following the constitutional regulation so far. The first act takes place at the time of the appointment of individual ministers and later takes place in the discharge of individual ministers when the individual minister is gravely violating or failing to act in accordance with the principles of our country. This has happened several times in the history of our young country. And it is right that it has happened, because at least in the National Party we estimate that we must by no means transfer the Institute of Justice, i.e. a permanent judicial mandate and thus the inviolability of judges, to ministers. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to transfer this change to political officials, i.e. ministers and ministers, even though it has proved in practice to be negative and even harmful for the further development of our country, even if we look at the performance of those ministers we have interpreted in this National Assembly in all the mandates we have so far. The Government, in my opinion, as a mockery of the National Assembly, cites the explanation of Article 118 of the Constitution, namely the article that speaks of interpretation. It states the following: cross-border control of the work of the government and individual ministers is ensured through parliamentary issues. I think that such an aortic phrase can only be written by a representative who cares little about responses and reactions within this national council. We all know where he has brought the instrument of questions sent and the initiatives sent. We all know that this instrument has lost all the weight it may have had before. We can see this, or I will argue my thesis with two facts that regularly take place in the framework of our work. How many questions does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia take seriously? As for the questions and initiatives given by the National Party's Group of Members, which has been addressed by most of the Members' groups to the government among others, we will be given an answer in the form, if I mark one word, whether it is possible or not. Nothing else. In short, none of the questions sent or any initiative, unfortunately, in this country does not produce any fruit, let it be an initiative after a certain legal initiative, whether it will be an initiative under different guidelines, and usually these initiatives are of good quality. No, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, does not take the Institute of the Question of Parliament and the Parliamentary Initiative seriously. Therefore, it is even more unrealistic that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia hopes to say that control is provided by initiatives and questions. According to our assessment, this kind of explanation for the amendment to Article 118 is more than incorrect. Once again, according to our assessment, this is an abject explanation. Anyone who learns little about the existing parliamentary practice and the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this national assembly will have to establish here if he wants to be honest, of course, first of all to himself. On the other hand, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees and claims that the cross-check is carried out with parliamentary questions. Then where are the sanctions? Even if the fact of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia held to determine some irregularities in the form or as a result of this control, where are the sanctions? So far, or in the existing system, the sanctions have been the interpretation - the interpretation of the individual part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We all know that it is very unappreciative to interpel the entire government; what then arises and what weights it has, we know. And the question is whether it makes sense to interpret the entire government simply because of a single government base. Wasn't the existing system meaningful, where we could define and show the culprit who was responsible for his field. In my opinion, this is much more fair to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Not that one individual minister who does his work in a qualityless manner suffers the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thereby the entire structure of the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment - to conclude, because we intend to carry out the matter also in the context of the debate between Members and Members - I would like to stress just one more point. If we look at the content of the individual proposed constitutional changes and try to reach them in its entirety, we see that all the constitutional changes that are ahead of us today and all the plans, from Parliament losing a certain legislative role in the procedures for the adoption of laws that will touch the Republic of Slovenia, with the European Parliament, and now with the proposal that there will be no longer a relationship between the government and the National Assembly, and that the institution of inviolability of each minister will be introduced, we consider that this is the wrong way to develop our country. We should approach a different theory or a different path. It is only right that we continue the path we have so far. So that Parliament, as a representative body of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, has the power to control, and this really controls, the work of individual ministers and to achieve, in the event of violation or poor work of these ministers, whether it is less likely, a voluntary withdrawal or an interpretation. In the National Party for Amendments on the point of constitutional change under consideration, we will by no means support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u55	Thank you. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that ministers be no longer appointed by the National Assembly, but by the President of the Republic, that the organisation and number of ministers are not determined by law, but by the government itself and that the intervention is only about the work of the government, not about the work of ministers. In principle, we support the Government's proposal for the appointment and discharge of ministers. It is not necessary, however, to accept systematically that, within a short period of time after the election of the mandate holder who has obtained the right to form a government, the composition of the government is once again voted on by the National Assembly. It is also unacceptable that the National Assembly against the will of the Prime Minister, on the basis of interpretation, may dismiss individual ministers or may not accept a proposal for the discharge of the Minister, as proposed by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is first among the same and responsible for the government's work, so he must also be able to form a ministerial team. At the same time, we believe that such a proposal to amend the Constitution will be adopted in order to indicate in the next stage of the constitutional changes that, following the appointment of the Prime Minister by the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister in the National Assembly will present a newly appointed government and its programme, which the National Assembly is voting on, the so-called Investment Trustee. It does not seem wise for us to say today, in the face of very different experiences, that each mandate-holder also determines how much and what resources the Government will have and that he does not have a national assembly and also a coalition in it, that, under all the arrangements he has made with regard to the mandate-holder, he also controls whether the programme prepared by the mandate-holder and whether the composition of the ministries, as agreed, is in line with the agreements that have been set up in the design of the coalition. We believe that the success of the government's tasks depends on respect for the coalition arrangements as well, and that some control in this regard in the National Assembly by the coalition and the opposition must be, so it seems to us that this change in the government's proposal could be made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u57	Thank you. France Tsukati, the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So we are at point 4 which is according to point 3. Here in this proposal, the National Assembly is to be completely degraded, so that the National Assembly would have no influence in the appointment of ministers, nor in the discharge of ministers. According to the Government's proposal, this should only have a mandate for the composition of the government, of course, in cooperation with the President of the State. We believe that this is a major step backwards, which we are also following in previous points. When establishing the provinces, we amputated the congregations as a whole. That's the government's proposal. At the previous point, the government's proposal where we amputated or amputated 30 Members of Parliament, the Council of State, and severely limited the content that could go to the referendum. At this point, once again, the Government's proposal is to amputate the State Assembly in the appointment and resolution of ministers. In preparation, the law on co-operation between the national assembly and the government in the EU is a matter, and the ruling party wants to transform the national assembly fully into, so to speak, only a consultative body of the government. What is the red thread of all these proposals? Centralization, ethatization, accumulation of power in one place. I would call these red or anti-democracy programs. A very clear anti-democracy program. Whether this programme will succeed depends, of course, on the discipline of the government coalition, because others do not have the capacity to prevent it. I think I would repeat here the second paragraph of the third article of the Constitution, which says, "in Slovenia, the people have power. Citizens and citizens shall execute it directly and by elections." I think it would make sense, if of course, to change this paragraph as well, and it should read: "in Slovenia, the ruling party or government that exercises its authority directly and through decrees and indirectly by ignoring municipalities and preventing referendums". Gentlemen, this red thread is clearly visible to all those who are not deaf, and they are not blind and can read among the lines. It's an anti-democracy program. Of course, we are opposed to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u59	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by a colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u60	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Vice President! I can say that the first phase of the adoption of the Constitution has fallen at a very valuable time, a time when the national assembly or the parliamentary group are considering how we will adopt our constitutional obligation to the law on the relationship between the national assembly and the government. Why did I say that in the introduction? Because I am sure that time is ripe and that at this stage of the adoption of the Constitution, the National Assembly will not support any solutions that, from the current constitutional concept, would take over the Slovenian Parliament's powers, which it already has after the constitution. We are at the point of the agenda which discusses the design and functioning of the government and the state administration. They're three articles. When the government prepared this constitutional change on the basis of the expert group's opinion two and a half years ago, and when this proposal came to the parliamentary groups and the national assembly, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which I led at the time and I am also leading it today, said that it would not support this solution. She won't back her up today either. It is true, and this must be said, that the issue of the relationship between the government and Parliament is a constant topic of European political debate. Political theory, political science and others are full of those who open this dilemma. This is a dynamic balance-and-block ratio between the government and parliament. Parliament is an expression of authentic sovereignty or the will of the people. In our opinion, the National Assembly will not accept this proposal in the light of the consideration it will adopt today, in order to weaken itself and reduce its competence in favour of the power of the government. It's just not necessary. The arguments for this proposal are too weak, some exist, but they are too weak. The argument that it is necessary to strengthen the government's position at the expense of Parliament, because the government does not have enough broad powers to work effectively, is too weak. On the basis of the current constitution, the Slovenian Government has all the powers to work successfully and can work very successfully. I would also like to say this - this may be a paradox - in the expert group of the National Assembly and the Constitutional Commission, the National Assembly did not have any advocates. Legal experts and theorists were on the other hand, on the other hand, which also proposed a justification for a government proposal. That's a little unusual. I would like to remind you of Dr Bernick's discussions when he talked about incompatibility in some way - if you propose a proposal for a government, you can't be an expert reference for a national assembly. We respect experts' opinions, we respect them, but they haven't convinced us. The government also wrote down and the expert group summarized: "The current constitutional regime of the government is inadequate in certain respects, both for practical and constitutional reasons, because it causes problems in the formation of the government." What kind of trouble? "Hearings" or "Hearings" hearings in Parliament are not a problem. Is "interregnum" a problem? A representative of the government talked about this today. If this is really the problem - you will remember the first and second half times of the current government, the current constitutional regime has very rightly solved all problems in a few weeks. There's no problem. If there is a problem with the continuity of work, if there is a confidant or non-disclosure, then, in our opinion, there are other solutions for such possible complications, which are not of this nature: we could supplement the Government Act, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or any other act, and these problems would be less. And now the second question, which is the question of the concept - the question of the German model, the question of the Chancellor model. In the Slovenian People's Party we firmly believe that Slovenia does not need chancellery. The chancellorship is not his own Slovenian political thought and Slovenian political character. Slovenian political history and political culture do not accept it. This model is not at home in Slovenian society and is unnecessary. Ten, twelve years we have successfully implemented the Slovenian model of parliamentary democracy. The National Assembly, Parliament, is the central city of Slovenian politics, and the spirit of the Constitution has clearly written this down. The spirit of the Constitution has written that the Slovenian constitutional model is parliamentaryly centered, if I may call it that, and this model is not bad. Finally, we must take into account the level of Slovenian political culture and some experience. How would political and other relations develop in Slovenian society if ministers were to be responsible and loyal to the Chancellor, the Prime Minister? What's going on? It is right that ministers remain accountable to the National Assembly, and it is right that the Prime Minister is responsible to the National Assembly first. In the work of the section two years ago, the following point is also made: the government has partly summarized the federal German regime, which Parliament, after the election of the Prime Minister, completely excludes from any further influence, both on the government's personnel composition and on its programme. It was this element of German regulation that Roman Hercog referred to as a very serious derogation from the principles of the parliamentary system. The substance of the parliamentary system is the legislative impact of Parliament on the design and functioning of the government. According to the German system, this influence is also greatly weakened by the institute of constructive non-trust. I conclude with the conclusion that it is the fact that Europe now, when adopting its European Constitution, is thinking a lot about how it will deal with one important issue, which confronts all those who, within the framework of European policy, wonder what the relationship of European citizens we are, and who are also Slovenian citizens, to their authorities in Slovenia and Brussels. It's a matter of democratic deficit. Any reduction in the powers of the National Assembly vis-à-vis the Government would, in our view, be a wrong decision at this time. We will not support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u61	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be given by colleague Anton Anderlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u62	Respectable. Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the Government's proposal because we believe that the current constitutional regime of the government, the position of the Government in the legal order, is not appropriate for both practical and constitutional reasons. Let us recall a number of difficulties in starting different mandates, how difficult it was to form a government, as well as other cases in which it was to ensure the functioning of the government. For example, when the Prime Minister proposed the replacement of a minister and she was not replaced in Parliament, she later resigned, because the way in which she worked, the provision, the implementation of the government's programme, and so on, was not carried out in accordance with what was promised and guaranteed in Parliament itself. It is therefore imperative to change this part of the regime, which in some way introduces or installs one part of the assembly system in the relationship between the national assembly and the government, and departs from comparable systems with such democratic regulation, that is, the parliamentary system that we have here. We believe that this proposal is consistent and we want to take a step forward in shaping the government and ensuring, in some way, stability of governance within the framework of laws which are of course fundamental, namely the government law which gives the government the power to implement the country's policy. We'll support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u63	Thank you. And the position of the Youth Party delegation, and Marko Diaci, who has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Until the proposal on constitutional changes in the design and functioning of the government, i.e. the formation of a government, the appointment of ministries and the abolition of interpolation, we are very reserved in the Young Slovenia Party. In fact, we are reserved for both proposals concerning this area. We believe that it is too early to amend these provisions of the Constitution due to the relative shortevity of our socio-economic system. While it may somehow be understood as a proposal that eliminates the under-influence of the Prime Minister on the composition of his own government, this goes to a second extreme, namely that Parliament is completely excluded from any further influence in the election of the Prime Minister, both on the personal composition of the government and on its programme. I think that Parliament is losing too much power and influence. This proposal undermines the brake system and the balance between the branches of government. There would not be a lot of tools left for Parliament. It is certainly necessary to maintain the Institute of Interpellation, because the question sent and the initiative cannot be taken away. Should this proposal be adopted, the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs could be compared even more than now with the well-known radio show "Congratulations and Welcomes". For all of us are now well aware of the extent to which ministers and governments have answered the questions already foretold. At the same time, it is worth recalling that the government is already gaining power and influence because of Slovenia's membership in the European Union and its operating conditions. It is therefore unacceptable for any decommissioning of parliamentary powers. Above all, this proposal for amending the Constitution is not necessary and, as such, is unnecessary in view of the importance of the area it is changing. According to the leader of the Young Slovenia Party, we will not support the proposals that extend the rights of those that are being revived in the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u65	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Dr. Andrei Bajuk. He's quitting. My friend Sasha Patch.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u66	I'd like to use these few seconds just to apologize. I apologize to my colleagues, to Mr Bogdan Barovic and to Sonja Areh Lavrič, because I had not previously seen that I had a total of 25 seconds left, despite the fact that they had prepared themselves for the point. But I will repeat once again, the most important sentence and final decision, which I think is the most important in every policy option. So the closing sentence: In the National Party for the solution as offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for ourselves, we cannot land, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u67	Thank you. My friend Janez Janša has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. As the leader of our parliamentary group has said, this proposal by the government is also another in a series of attempts to completely revise the current constitutional regime of the country, towards a drastic reduction in democratic standards. In the previous point, we have faced an attempt to practically abolish direct decision-making and thus revise the basis laid down at the beginning of the Constitution, if the people in Slovenia first decide directly and only indirectly. This is also recommended in reading Mr Jakic, who had previously discussed totally beyond this constitutional basis, as enshrined in the beginning of the Constitution. Then we followed the attempts to demolish local self-government, so that the central government will determine not only the powers, but also the nest, it is said, the province in which it will put them. We are now facing an attempt at the degradation of parliamentary democracy and the introduction of the presidential system. From some of the frameworks of European constitutional regulation, the Slovenian government is now trying to push this proposal into different frameworks. These are all elements of Presidential democracy, as the United States knows, but it has been practiced there for 200 years in different situations and certainly this summary is not good for us. At the next point, we will face the same test when it comes to appointing judges instead of parliament as president of the country. There are some foreign ways in which the Presidential system is being introduced and the role of Parliament is totally degraded. In addition to these trials, which we have today on the agenda or which we have had yesterday, there is also the law already mentioned, which, in relations between Slovenia and the European Union, gives all powers into the hands of the government and the National Assembly into a meaningless consultation. This proposal, which we have before us and which is proposed by the government or all government parties, obviously has at least some, as long as there is one opinion on Gregorčič when they come to Šubič, another, so that one never knows what a government position is and what is not a government position. This proposal also removes the possibility of the State assembly interpreting the individual minister. One of the key instruments of control exercised by the legislative authority over the functioning of the executive branch in this government proposal will for the first time be completely eliminated at the very beginning of the procedure, when the national assembly does not decide on the government at all, and secondly, it will be impossible to check the work of individual ministers. The only valid argument for such a proposal that we can read in the Government's explanation is that this would shorten the decision-making time when the new National Assembly is elected and the executive power is also being established. This time, after the procedures provided for in the current constitution, is indeed a proposal, but this does not mean that it is necessary, because we do not agree on the inefficiency of the process itself, to change the fundamental principle of the formation of a government. That is why we have proposed a solution that will otherwise be discussed at the next point that solves this dilemma. This solution drastically reduces the time it takes to form a new government without reducing Parliament's role in this process and would not destroy Parliament's ability to control the functioning of the executive power, even with the possibility of interpolation. Therefore, I propose that we reject this solution proposed by the Government, because it is indeed a total revision of the current constitutional regime, in terms of moving away from democratic standards in the sense of introducing a certain presidential system, without even being so called, and that we should adopt the next solution that actually responds to the only real dilemma that actually exists within the current constitutional regime, which is linked to an inadequately long time to form an executive power, once a new national assembly is established. Thus, we have a solution, we have a solution that is appropriate, which does not undermine democratic standards, so this government solution, which is very unhappy, is practically almost insidious to the legislative authority, needs to be rejected.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u69	Thank you. Franci Rokavec has the floor for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. He could only touch on two questions. First of all, it's principled. This proposal to appoint a government in the field of constitutional changes changes the roles, the National Assembly, the President of the Republic and, on the other hand, the powers of the government on the other hand, thus changing the competence of individual institutions in that country. From now on, only one example has been possible to focus on, that the time to establish a government could be slightly longer than one normal situation. If we look at the situation in other countries where there is a very uniform force relationship on the one hand or on the other, there will be problems with the establishment of a government, regardless of what the proposed procedure is, whether the President of the Republic does so to appoint ministers or whether Parliament or the National Assembly will do so. We can only go over Caravanka and we can find out the case next door. In the preceding state elections of the Republic of Austria, it was also found that there was also a great deal of difficulty in establishing the government, as well as in the last elections. It takes some time to identify and explore the best possible solutions that are best suited at that time to form a government. Therefore, I believe that the solutions that are in the existing constitution are quite appropriate and would not suggest that they should be amended. I believe that too little time has passed, that in one case there would already be a need for such a thorough change in this area. But the second question I think is the question of interpolation. With a proposal such as the constitutional amendments, it would no longer be possible to refer interpretations to a specific minister, but to the government as a whole. I think this is a step backwards, no matter what comparative experience is elsewhere. Why would a government as a whole be responsible in one case, if, say, a certain minister was making mistakes? Here I believe that then that individual minister's responsibility could be shifted to the responsibility of the whole government and thus the consequences. Many times, the responsibility of the Minister in a particular area is very high and it is necessary for the National Assembly to consider it, including for the Prime Minister and the National Assembly to reach out to the instrument of replacing the Minister. But if we were to accept this model, then this option is no longer a national assembly. The only possibility then is for the National Assembly to address the interpretation to the entire government and to invoke the non-trust of the entire government. According to my assessment, this instrument has been useful so far. Whether the interpolation was positive or not in some cases. In any event, it was one courtesy for the minister concerned that he could have been more sensitive in certain areas than to interpolation or in cases of positive intrusion. That is why I do not think there is any basis for us to change the constitution here, and in a field where I do not think there have been any negative experiences, I would rather say the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u71	Thank you. My colleague, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, has a word for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Of course, it is not good to interfere too often and too often with the constitution. However, when we have a process ahead of us, it would probably be wise to change some of the solutions to deepen and try to discuss certain issues that are now regulated by the Constitution by proving to be problematic in practice. There were no debaters who would say that some solutions are not problematic. At the very least, as you have all come to understand, it was of course problematic that the Prime Minister was appointed in this national assembly and his team was not. He was, in fact, like Mr. Cuckoo says, amputated. How can the Prime Minister work if his team is not confirmed in the National Assembly? So this problem is listed as one of the reasons that is also being examined by the expert commission that helps us in our work, in the design of these constitutional changes, and says that with minimal intervention in this part a solution would be appropriate to think about and to change the constitution in this part. Of course, we must ensure the supervision of the national assembly over the work of the government. That's not a question. It must be acknowledged, however, that all the key instruments for government control remain in Parliament: we can vote on the confidence of the government, the parliamentary issues, the creation of investigative commissions and so on. All the institutes remain intact. It is very important to me, however, to ask ourselves here whether it is the basic task of the National Assembly that we, as actually the legislative branch of power, directly control each individual minister. This lets us know that the government acts as a group of individual responsible individuals, not as a government as a whole. In fact, I say that the responsibility of the government vis-à-vis Parliament is the responsibility of individuals as a whole. But now that we treat them as individuals as individual responsible ministers, it also causes ministers to be so stressed in their individual responsibilities that there is no essential second element, that is, the coordination of ministries in their operations among themselves. We do know, however, that life is interdisciplinary, that it is not only made up of work in a particular field, but requires a thorough integration of ministries and, of course, their coordinated work. In fact, in this system, when the President of the Republic proposes to run for Prime Minister for election to the National Assembly, we hereby appoint the President, but then we take up the role of appointing the team. That's not good. This also reminds us that a solution is worth considering. We could also compromise, and the government continues to say that compromise solutions are possible, but if we do not support the basic proposal, it will be as it is now, and this individual responsibility of individual ministers is overemphasized. I think this is also reflected in the lack of coordination within the government. Finally, flexibility in decision-making processes within the European Union requires us, however, to support the change that says that we need to allow the government some mechanisms to quickly transform and respond to the changes that the European Union requires from them. However, with the law that we are adopting, we are also providing the government with the necessary cooperation of parliaments in the decision-making process in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u73	Thank you. Master Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself object to the extreme simplification of the procedure for appointing a government, although it is possible to understand the request or to think in some way, that there is some simplification, and that the facilitation of the appointment of a government in Slovenia is needed. We had a chance to see this more than once. I am also in favour of a certain simplification, but, of course, it has not yet been clearly defined and the directions have been indicated, with which some have come before me on a day. The deletion of interpolation is certainly not, therefore, the interpellation of ministers, the role of Parliament's control over the functioning of the government, the supervision of individual ministers, and in particular during the so-called transition, as corruption and the illegal behaviour of ministers are increasing, and interference with different areas. These are the reasons that we must also take into account when regulating the appointment of a government. There is something else that needs to be highlighted in the light of the situation between the European and Slovenian parliaments or between the government and parliament. The government has its position within the institutions of the European Union. In a proposal that we are now making in some way about the relationship between the government and Parliament, it is regrettable that the ruling coalition will force the solution that only some consultative body with non-binding views would be a parliamentary body in the most important decisions, state-of-the-art decisions. Therefore, it is still important that our proposal is to adopt a mandatory position, which the Government takes into account, for extreme possibilities of state-of-the-art decisions. It is only now that we understand why it is necessary, perhaps you now understand, because all of these guidelines: the deletion or extreme reduction of referendum decisions, the appointment of governments and regions or provinces, all points to some direction in terms of weakening democracy, narrowing institutions for the functioning of a democratic state. Finally, we will have an all-powerful government that will work with us in Slovenia and will not be accountable to anyone in Europe. These are too many steps and reasonable decisions need to be made. Do you want to make Parliament a debate club that will meet every four years and confirm an all-powerful coalition? Thank you very much. I am not in favour of such a solution, although certain simplifications are necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u75	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek gets the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. Again, we have before us a proposal for constitutional changes that, in my view, are not going in the right direction - there is an argument that some countries are building a path towards reducing democratic instruments when establishing a government. In fact, the presidential model of the organisation of the country is proposed. These are classic elements of the presidential system to appoint the Prime Minister as Prime Minister and Ministers, while the legislative body would have a symbolic position of observer. We can imagine where such a way of putting up governments and ministers in this country, which nevertheless does not have a democratic tradition. And in this we can understand some of the purposes, but the power [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] who suggested such a model. [[...]] See, this proposal came at a time when there was still harmony between the current president of the country, the then Prime Minister and his party. This has changed a lot today, and I believe these rumors that the liberal party no longer stands honestly behind this proposal, but, of course, some hopes that there may also be some changes in the situation and that there is an open path to their intentions. In this case, if so, we should certainly also delete the fact that the proposed Minister is presented before a competent committee of the national assembly. Indeed, we have one parallel, in the law on external matters, we have deleted the need for a future ambassador or obligatorship to present himself before the PSC, the Committee on Foreign Policy. It has to be presented, but the foreign policy committee can no longer reject it; it no longer has this option. As soon as this came into law, it happens regularly that they come to the so-called 'hearing' ambassadors at a time when they are already confirmed by the country where the Prime Minister and the President of the State send them. They already have an agrema. There has been total denial of the foreign policy committee and humiliation of the national assembly. And I am equally sure that if we were to accept this novel, the ministers would come to present themselves two months after they were already ruling in the government, in the same way they are here. Although the amendment was justified in that case, in this case it is not justified. Behold, the magnification and emphasis of the chancellor model. Here we have heard that the chancellor model does not belong in our tradition, in our practice. I believe, however, that the LDS is suitable to have, let's say that the Prime Minister, the current one, will be the first Slovenian chancellor, so to speak, Slovenian Bismarck, and thus cover up this lack of self-sustaining capital in this party because we would build future propaganda on this. I believe that it suits people, perhaps the Prime Minister, but it does not belong to our political space, our tradition, our aspirations. And then disable or eliminate the possibility of individual interpolation. With the well-known relationship of our ministers to the Institute of Objective and Subjective Responsibility, we can imagine where this leads. The legislative body would no longer have any opportunity to make corrections or at least warn. We know that, virtually in the case of interpretations, which are highly justified, the current current authority always protects the Minister. Even with subjective responsibility, it protects him, but if the legislative body no longer represents people, before Slovenian citizens the mistakes of a minister - and we know that there are quite a few ministers in the current government who have matured for interpretation that have matured for interpretation. For the affair of Elan and the prize is not enough to make the Minister of Economy feel responsible, despite the fact that billions are draining away every year. The health relationship and the cell affair are not big enough. Probably, if it turns out, the Black Wood issue is for real, I am sure that no one will feel responsible in this country - not even an objective responsibility - but we know what the objective responsibility is in these countries, where three ministers in Belgium, when the pedophile fled the courts, resigned within two hours. With such an understanding of objective and subjective responsibilities, they would, in fact, establish an absolute authority that would not look to the left, right, but actually rule, not in the interests of the State, but in the interests of the power centres they have put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u77	Thank you. Aloys Peterle gets the floor for the debate. He's quitting. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government! I'm sure the arrangements so far aren't bad. The current arrangements for the appointment of a government give an important weight to Parliament and, last but not least, the responsibility of the person entrusted with the mandate to prove himself to the team, that this team will cease any clear presentation, not least draw up a clear programme and present it to the Parliament and the public, and that it will only result in a confidant. That's why I don't think this arrangement is bad. However, it may be appropriate to attach to the concerns that, at certain times, it is not the most effective and that the State needs effective executive power as soon as possible and, of course, such an effective executive power, which is ultimately supported by the majority in Parliament and by most people as well. At least in principle. Therefore, I do not think that this proposal before us is acceptable. For it does not respect the fact that this team receives a significant endorsement and, last but not least, that it is presented in Parliament. I think this proposal is disabled from this heading. In particular, the proposal is poor due to the suspension of the possibility of interpolation. I believe that it is uncomfortable for the government to listen here to the debates which mark a specific minister of illegality, as was the case in the case of the interpretation against the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Janez Kopač. I believe that a series of readings hurt the existing power, and it hurts even more when it turns out that interpellation is also supported by a part of the government. And I believe that the government's desire is not to repeat this and that, of course, we will delete this from the possibility and, of course, delete it as one of the basic and only, according to my only control mechanisms, and the control mechanisms, the State Assembly over the work of the individual minister. It is not true that parliamentary issues are part of control. If the supervisory authority can't "bite" then it's not the supervisory authority. If we're asking here and we don't get answers, it's not control. It is only the good will of someone whether he answers us or not, and you know and see how many of the questions sent remain unanswered, how about the parliamentary initiatives and so on. In short, I think that the proposed proposal is a step away from some right and logical relationship between Parliament and the government, that it is a step towards centralising power in individuals, and last but not least from the other proposals for amending the constitution that have come from government circles, and not least from some other proposals that the government supports in other legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u79	Thank you. This was a debate between Members and Members. I'd give the word to the government if he wanted to. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u80	If, in my opening presentation of the Government's proposal, I have highlighted in particular the rationalisation of the process, perhaps a few words about the claim that it is a matter of reducing the government's responsibility to the National Assembly. We estimate that, in fact, the system that we are trying to introduce through this change can mean even greater responsibility for the government than for the whole. Indeed, in the case of a collective distrust of the government, the government as a whole is responsible for possible irregularities, inconsistencies, shortcomings of the minister as an individual. So the Prime Minister is responsible not only formally for the government's work, but specifically this time. For under the asis that the whole government may fall down because of irregularities only in the functioning of one minister. And perhaps this aspect of change could also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u81	Thank you. There's nine minutes left and some time left. Anybody else want to talk about spending this time? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, either after the end of the agenda or within the framework of an agreement on the voting time, at 10 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm moving to five. On the eve of today's agenda, this is an evocative proposal to initiate a procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law, EPA 692-III. The proposal for the initiation of the procedure for amendment 111., 112., 116. and 117. Andrei Vissiak. I give the text to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the proposal to amend the Constitution. You have 10 minutes. Mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Dear government officials! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want to listen to the constitutional amendments, not least after our assessment of the current regulation's concerns, although we do not think it is bad. Therefore, it is appropriate to stop and propose more effective ways of appointing ministers or the election of ministers and governments, while at the same time ensuring and maintaining the existing relationship and the relationship and role of the National Assembly in this regard. With the proposed amendment to the Constitution, we want to contribute to the transparency of the election of the Prime Minister and the composition of the government itself, as it is also clear when the Prime Minister is appointed - and it must be seen - what composition the government will actually operate in. We are convinced that without a clear statement of which team and how the organised team will operate, it is difficult to get a confidential voice in this House and it is difficult to convince Members and Members of Parliament that, of course, the executive authority will act and carry out what the legislative authority accepts. Therefore, according to our assessment of the election and election of the Prime Minister, his team must also be loved and give Parliament a clear way of implementing and working as Prime Minister. The Prime Minister responsible for the functioning of the government should decide on the appointment and resolution of ministers, provided that no more than one third of the government's team has been changed in the course of one term. If the Prime Minister wants to make major changes, he must tie them to the confidential issue of the entire government. We are convinced that the team, and thus the start of the executive branch of power, loses content, loses contour, if there are significant changes in the ministerial structure, so we are convinced that the exchange of more than a third of the government team is a matter of confidence to the entire government. Of course, in the proposals we maintain the foundation of the Institute for the supervision of the National Assembly over the functioning of the government, this is an intervention against the responsibility of each minister, and, of course, these articles of the Constitution, unlike the government, we do not resort to it. Our proposal is, in short, a compromise between the regulation envisaged by the Constitution now and which, according to the assessment of a number of parliamentary groups, is not bad, is satisfactory, but perhaps has some weaknesses that have proved to be in practice. On the other hand, there is also a compromise against the government proposal, as it foresees a significantly more efficient procedure, a significantly more efficient process of appointing an entire ruling team. It is said that a mandate-holder with a team of ministers will come before this Parliament and that his team will be elected when he is elected. In short, we want to upgrade the existing constitutional regime with greater efficiency and thus faster access to the executive branch, because, of course, the implementation of a number of our country's programmes depends on this branch of government and, of course, the implementation of what is not least the case for all people, both those who support the position as well as those who support the opposition. If the statements made by the representatives of the ruling parties are sincere in the sense that we want to speed up or that we want to move faster towards the ruling team and, in our opinion, maintain the competence and role of the national assembly, this proposal is the only one acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u83	Thank you. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission and submitted a written report to the National Assembly. I give my word to a government representative if he wants to? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, I give my word to Aloise Peterlet, the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think I have some experience on this subject and I would like to say the following in this regard first. For several years, the establishment and change of government, without any particular problems, has been taking place in accordance with the Constitution as we have it. The problems arose after a significant, I would not say, significant deviation in the concept of democratic rules of the game in the sense that we have been working with two coalitions for some time. And even later this occurred in our practice that there was one coalition in the government and another in Parliament. Of course, we would now be doing a bad service to ourselves if the constitution were adapted to a bad coalition culture. I think it is necessary to raise the culture of governance and the functioning of coalitions in such a way that there will be no need to change the constitution. I think that we could also continue to live in accordance with this constitution, even though some hands are relatively long, there is no record that we have to wait exactly as many days, until the last day, if we say so; things can also be proposed on the first day. In short, the Constitution is not an obstacle to good government formation. In this regard, I remain in a conservative position that this should not even be changed. Given that we have different proposals here, however, I take so much time to compare the government proposal and what the group of Members of the Coalition of Slovenia has offered. The government proposal seems radical to me in trying to transfer powers to the Prime Minister or to the President of the State. I think that what a group of Members of the Coalition of Slovenia is offering is much closer to Parliament, but enough change is worth supporting. I just want to warn you about two. It seems very important to me that we simplify or support the simplification of the procedure in the sense that we do not have two stages, first the President and then the Government; I think that we can combine this easily into one process, but that there should be confirmation in Parliament. I think it's also logical that the following matter should be maintained as an opportunity for Parliament to influence us. I think it makes sense if the Parliament, however, confirms the ministers that it has a possibility to influence them or to replace them, so that I plead for these two. So let's simplify the procedure of the government's mandate holder and maintain the interpretation as a possibility of a national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u85	Thank you. Comrade Sašo Peče, position of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u86	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have already said when we consider the previous point that we agree with the existing constitutional arrangements in conjunction with the articles that speak about the appointment of the government and the ministers. We therefore estimate that the proposal of a group of Members, which is tanning for change, is smaller and less radical than the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not acceptable to us. We believe that, in the area of the appointment of the Prime Minister and ministers, there is a strong enough argument in today's constitutional regime and in the current political practice for a proper relationship of power between the various branches of government, thus allowing for a consistent development of parliamentary democracy. We will therefore oppose the vote "against" both the proposal tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous paragraph and the proposal put forward by the Group of Members in this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u87	Thank you. Master Andrej Vizjak once again, the position of the Group Member?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u88	Of course, we will support the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, which we have, last but not least, forwarded to the Members for consideration. I think that the basic advantage of this proposal is the higher-level regulation and, of course, the higher-level proposal, which has the ambition to reduce the role of Parliament in the composition and appointment or appointment of a government now, in keeping with the importance of us sitting here. Of course, I would be very surprised if we cut ourselves something that we are good at, and something that can also have a very active impact on the functioning of our ministers and of course our governments. The position of the President of the country remains practically the same on our proposal. However, it is about shortening the process, rationalising the procedure, at least voting at the same time, as is the proposal for a Prime Minister, as well as the team that that trustee puts before this Parliament. We need to stay here and decide both about the team and the Prime Minister. However, we propose that this is essential in a more efficient way. A very important novelty is also, of course, a novelty that differs greatly from the government's proposal, so that the head of the government can change ministers himself and this right is not limited to him. We limit this right to a maximum of one third of the team, because we are confident that if the team is confirmed - and has to be confirmed - in this House, then the Prime Minister himself can't just replace it, mix it up, but must come and get a confidential one, to the extent that he changes more than one third of this team. In short, we support the government's existing relationship to the National Assembly and responsibility and the supervisory role of the State Assembly over the government covered by our proposal, while rationalising the process of getting to the government and team, which was also a basic observation in the current regime, including from governmental types and probably the motive of many, but regretting the government's proposal, but not ours, is perhaps hiding something else. In short, we support this and, to the extent that there is a genuine ambition of a number of government representatives to rationalise the process, then this proposal will also be supported if, of course, the government proposal falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Rokavec will give his position to the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. In the parliamentary group, too, this proposal by the Group of Members to amend the chapter, the changes to the Constitution in the field of the appointment of a government will not be supported. We will not support it, in particular, in view of the fact that the 12-year period is essentially too short a time to have a thorough impact on this constitutional chapter. Indeed, we believe that there is too little time and little experience in this period, in fact, that it would be necessary to cut down so radically in the field of the appointment of a government and thus to change the relationship of competence, particularly of the national assembly. We therefore estimate that it is too early to change the Constitution in this area at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u91	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club and Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u92	Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will not support the proposal of the Group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Visionak. We believe that the proposal does not address any significant shortcomings in the current constitutional regime of the government. After all, we wanted to make the relationship between the legislative and executive branches of government clearer by the previous proposal made by the Government, which is based on the principle of the division of power between the two branches. It seems to us that too old a system is being maintained, including the system that somehow failed to write in the stop in a modern way, but has maintained some of this old relationship between the congregation and the executive world, and this is not acceptable for us, although it will be obvious that if the proposal is not adopted first, it will continue to be maintained. Otherwise, if we carefully read this proposal, we might think that there is a major advantage to this proposal, it seems impossible, difficult to match the political processes that are taking place in Slovenia and in the world, and therefore I think that we should focus more on the principle of the parliamentary system and not in this way, as presented in this proposal, so we will not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u93	Thank you, these were the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate between Members and Members and once again to my colleague, Aloise Peterlet. He's quitting. Sasha Peca has the floor. Janez Janša. Peter Levich. Andrej Vizjak. Bogdan Barovich. Joz Tanko. Mag. It's a trifle. Sonja Areh. France Cuckoo. Marco Diaci. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members. I don't know, a proposal to change the way the government is appointed would, of course, be to the place where we would have encountered problems in this area during our 12-year period. However, as so far as there have been no major problems regarding the appointment of a government, there have been no such complications that would have had their place or the consequence of an irregular arrangement in the constitution, it is also unclear why you are now changing the constitution and adapting the current appointment of a government in view of the existing power relationship in that country. While I agree, as has already been said at the previous point, that the government must act uniformly, that it must act as a whole, but in fact it would be illogical and senseless to put an interpretation into the whole government - this is a previous proposal, but despite the fact that these two points are very connected, I will talk about it - it would be logical to put an interpretation into the whole government if one of the ministers works poorly or is irresponsiblely working in the government. And this proposal made by the coalition, of course, allows the Prime Minister to have one third of the ministers, at his own discretion, if he considers that they are not doing well, that they are doing bad, that they are also replacing, and that if more ministers are to be replaced, then, of course, it is with the government as a whole very wrong and it is right that, on such an occasion, the National Assembly will decide. I also do not know which situation would be appropriate, or I could refer to the Prime Minister to propose the replacement of more than one third of the ministers, since he chose, in the first place, a team he believes he will be able to work with for four years. In such a case, therefore, if more than one third of the ministers were inadequate, I would, of course, have asked the question of the suitability of the Prime Minister rather than changing more than one third of the ministerial assembly. But this is really happening, and we can say this today on this occasion that our government does not act as it was said before: it must act in a uniform way, that it must act as a whole. Just one case that happened here in Parliament before recently. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the Ministry of Fisheries is the Ministry of Fisheries, we have experienced here that the law has come to be reasoned on by the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. The digger. That would not have been wrong if the Minister had not been here before this national assembly said that the government was united in this law and had voted against this law without vote. On the same night, we were able to hear from the Minister of Agriculture that he does not support this law. So, it shows that, of course, the government is acting out there as an indivisible one with different views, and it is difficult then for the public to believe that this government is acting in a uniform way. This was further expressed in the debate itself on this so important law, where the Government of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, which was the home working committee for this law, informed by letter that this area was so important that in fact it was not possible for the Ministry of Agriculture to decide on certain issues in this law, but for the government as a whole, and then, with the amendments tabled by the applicants, the Ministry of Agriculture, in fact, deleted from this law all the competences of the Ministry of Agriculture, and ordered it to decide on compensation under this law. So, of course, we have experienced such and similar complications in this House, and we have often witnessed them in these three years. And such an opportunity as it is today is an opportunity to draw attention to this. However, this harmonisation, this concerted government performance, cannot be ensured by these proposed changes to the government. This is just, I would say, a matter of the moral and political qualities of those who participate, this is a matter of a coalition treaty, this is a matter of mutual recognition and respect. If that is not the case, then in the opposition we can only find out that the government does not act uniformly and that it is difficult to talk about this unity and that we cannot ensure this by changing the constitution. Personally, I think that the current solution to the appointment of a government, with regard to interpretation, is a good solution, that it has proved appropriate in this Slovenian political space and that, therefore, at this point, of course, it would not be necessary to modify constitutionally defined provisions in this area at all costs, as regards the appointment of a government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u95	Thank you. I apologize for my mistake, instead of Andrei Bajuk I said Andrej Vizjak. And now I give you, Dr. Bayuk, a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to highlight the part of this proposal that is currently under consideration, and this is a proposal that retains Article 118 in its entirety as it is written. The Minister's intervention is a very important institution in our legal order, which he has introduced and also currently ensures that we have a greater balance between the executive and the legislative authorities. Parliament has a duty of control, and we must also enable it to do so. A system that would not allow this would actually be very weak and completely unacceptable from our point of view. That's why it's important that we talk about this. If Article 118 does not stand, we must be aware that it will not remain in the very special moment or period for which we are preparing now, and this is our entry into the European Union. I would like to reiterate that it is during this period, when it is not yet clear how the National Assembly will actually work, whether our conclusions will work, that I will not only say Parliament in this composition, even in any future composition, whether our decisions will be binding on the government or not, which has and will have new, special powers in accordance with the institutions of the European Union from 1 May 2004. It is precisely because, already in this new period, the role of the National Assembly will be transferred to another relationship, that we believe it is very important that the National Assembly retains all the possibilities that today's constitutional order allows it to have even greater control over the executive power. That is why this proposal of Members, which we have proposed months ago, also has this crucial feature in keeping the Institute of Interpellation. Of course, it also answers, and I think it is an appropriate basis for the problems that experts have warned us about. In fact, it allows these problems to be resolved and this specificity of the Slovenian constitutional system in this area is somehow overlooked. We are therefore convinced that it is a better basis for finalising all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u97	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Now I'd like to give my word to the proposer if he wants to. [[He doesn't want to.]] I give my word to the government. [[They don't want to.]] We've got some time left. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Aloysa Peterle. And please, if anyone else wants to discuss it, let me take note first. Five minutes will do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u98	Thank you. I would like to say again in the spirit of this, because the President of New Slovenia, Dr Andrej Bajuk, has just said. We have a very fresh case that tells us that it is very important to maintain the interpolation institute. Who are we going to ask now, why did the second line of the Divača-Koper from the European programme stop? We're going to the whole government, looking for a minister? Such a thing is so in heaven that it is necessary to ask someone here why something has not been done and something is not in the European programme. I'm talking about this because it's the most recent case that calls after the intervention of the entire government rather than the Minister of Transport. The second thing I would like to ask is that I will say, on purpose, professionally, if you can explain to me what they were thinking about the role of the President of the country, who should have the option or right to appoint a government on a proposal from the Prime Minister. I speak out of experience that the former Prime Minister, for example, on a proposal from the Minister, in this case, has failed to do so, or has refused to do so, and what do you suppose when the President takes the right not to sign or not at all for a while, we are in a different time or political and operational problem. I really want to know what the government's view is on this issue that may arise. He can say it, and I can say it, and because I'm also responsible, my signature means something, I won't let it go. I say, this has already happened at the ambassadorial level - how to get rid of this mystery.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the context of the final vote or at the agreed time. I'm breaking up the agenda. I'm going to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF A PROCEDURE TO CHANGE THE STOP OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE DRAFT ESTABLISHMENT LAW, EPA 703-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amendment 129., 130., 131., 132. and 134. Articles of the Constitution were submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the proposal. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u100	Honourable Vice President, Honorable Assembly. Just for a little bit about these proposed changes. In fact, the proposal provides for a different way of appointing judges, which is to be appointed by the President of the Republic, unlike the President of the Supreme Court, who is to be appointed by the National Assembly in the future. Judges could only be appointed to a permanent judicial function after at least four years of judicial office, which would also in fact be a procedure for verifying their professional competence. However, a different composition and election of the Council of Justice is also envisaged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which made a written report. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Jožef Bernik will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u102	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General of the Government, guests, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us a government proposal to amend the five articles of the Constitution dealing with the appointment of judges, their sustainability and so on. It seems that this proposal has been prepared with the hope that this will change the judicial system. As we all know, in the reports of the European Union, we have given some warning that this system does not work as it should. I will say, not so much that it does not work substantively, but technically, which is, of course, only one part of the issue, the problem that we have with our judicial system. Let me immediately say that these amendments seem to be satisfactory at first sight, but in our view they do not solve the problems our system has. This is about the entire branch of power. I will immediately say that we will not support these proposals for the following reason: this is a cosmetic solution or correction that is supposed to solve what is now wrong. However, we do not have a good analysis or an in - depth analysis of what is really going on with our legal or judicial system. See, when a change in the sustainability of the mandate is proposed here, by putting judges on trial for five years, and then they can be appointed for a permanent term of office. We can look across Europe and see that most countries actually have this permanent mandate, and even transition countries have adopted this approach. However, this in itself does not mean that this transgression is the best. Especially for countries in transition, as we are, because our democracy and the rule of law do not work as they should, and by making some mechanical changes, we will not change the content. It is also interesting that, for example, the European Union reports talk about technical problems, but they do not talk about those problems that are real, because they do not go into the content of the action and into the operation only of various tools such as money, etc. and then advise on what it should look like, not deep enough, for they reach only for superficial changes. Let me mention here, as I mentioned once before, that in our tendency, in the tendency of the government, changing the constitution is quite easy, and if we look at all the changes that we are considering today, we can say that, except maybe two or three, it is completely unnecessary to change the constitution now. But here I will quote some author who was the first president of the Slovenian Parliament to talk about this: "People have never lived in a different order than was real socialist, and they simply cannot imagine modern state regulations in many ways. Moreover, there is a complete lack of awareness or awareness that the Constitution cannot be the object of daily or longer - term political trade. The Constitution is an act of the highest national nature and should be subject solely to the broadest social interests. That is why the Constitution can only contain what we all agree on." I'm not going to talk about the whole system, I'm going to judge, but let me draw attention to something that is actually quite essential to this system. Our judicial system is very closed. It is closed to any external transparency and acts as such. Just look at the council of justice, the present and the next show. Most of them are judges, it is said that this judicial world is already a completely closed circle by this principle. Various countries are solving this problem in different ways. It is clear, however, that the proposed change in the problem of the judiciary will not solve it. Many are surprised that we, as a transition state, do not have foreign observers, civil society and so on in the judiciary. In fact, there is no one there who can give us a glimpse of what is happening, how things are happening, and why they are happening. We only have "crazy" as to how to say, resources, that they care about their interests. This was recently said by a man from outside who was reviewing this system, but I do not think that anyone took it seriously, although his judgment was extremely harsh; if, these judges act only in their own interests, it seems to me that there is something on this, although I personally do not believe that all judges would think the same thing and just look at their own interests. However, it is true that there is no real internal control and no external control at all, and therefore this system is the same as it is and we will not solve it with any mechanical arrangements as proposed. We should have a full analysis of this system, actually figure out what we could do to change the thinking, the looking and the independence of the judges. However, this is a long process and one would think that cosmetic changes would take place only when we also know and propose changes in content or requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we are aware of the importance of this third branch of power. From us, the National Assembly, as a legislative body, on the other hand - executive power, government and third party judiciary. It is and must be an independent institution without such or different influences. In the field, we also face many problems from this type of court, not just the backlogs, even because of sometimes perhaps the layman's few odd judgements, the solution and because this institution has the possibility of other and even third instances in its system. Because we are meeting precisely with a system that is supposed to be modified by this change of constitution to some extent, we consider in the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia: with regard to all comments, not only those of readers, but professional discussions in professional magazines and the media concerned, that a certain amendment is justified. We advocate this change in order to get better people in these functions, so we advocate and agree that the function should not be immediately given without restriction to begin with, but that it should be a traineeship, if I may say so, for five years. After five years, however, the judge should be appointed to serve as a permanent judge at that time. For we believe that we have had the opportunity to see certain things in the next light when we are presented in the parliamentary groups or in the materials about the candidate for President of the Supreme Court. The system itself can be good, but people, people, people who are supposed to perform functions from this system, if they are not - under orders that I will not be accused of anything - in a state of being or not sufficiently concerned, or otherwise not qualified, but to say simplified, taught only theoretically, and in practice life requires a lot different. That is why there has been a case-law in the world outside of the theory of court. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that it would be right for certain things to change, and that is how we will decide at the appropriate time, whether today or tomorrow, how we will vote. We believe that it is very important that the National Assembly on this issue, on this occasion, when we change the Constitution, think deeply and seriously about what can be improved in the system, and on the other hand that people will respect and implement it consistently. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u106	"People would respect the system," said the speaker in front of me. I think that before people are asked to do so, we should put in place a system that is worthy of respect. However, that the system of justice in our country is not worthy of respect, today the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has spent seven seconds to present its views on the five constitutional changes! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia touches on one of the three branches of government in our country and these changes in the five points that speak from appointment to judicial mandate are intended for less than ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the "activities" of the government suggest a lack of respect for the judiciary. I estimate that it is precisely the functioning of the government that shows that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in our country does not want to change the judiciary. Even if we look at the proposal for amendments, as stated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is clear that there is no reference to why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is seeking to amend the Constitution at these points. Nowhere is there any emphasis on the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants an effective judiciary, without judicial backlogs and with the right for everyone. Not only for those who are capital and politically close to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to government parties, but primarily to the rights and justice of citizens and citizens. In the National Party, we estimate that the starting point is wrong. To amend the Constitution in the area of the third branch of power, just to change or summarise something from European law, is, in our opinion, irrelevant. According to our assessment, if we are already modifying the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to amend it primarily in order to reflect these changes in the quality of the trial, because we can claim with all responsibility, at least in the national party, that the trial is at a bad level in our country, that the trial and the way the Slovenian courts work is poor. This is also noted by all those who do so-called "twinning projects" or analysis of how the judicial system takes place in our country or how comparative justice systems take place in related countries, in countries as a whole or in smaller groups. Allow us, for we estimate that this is one of the most important and challenging or should be a more important and more difficult constitutional change, so that the comparison of the Slovenian judiciary, reflected in the highest act, thus stopping the Republic of Slovenia, takes place comparatively. The Slovenian judiciary gives the following picture in comparison to the comparable German region, comparable to the number of inhabitants and comparable to the square, i.e. by scale: First time. The number of people per judge in Slovenia is 2,600, in this comparable other European region is 7485, which means that one judge, on average, has to meet the needs of almost 8 000 clients of judicial services in Slovenia, only 2500. A very important fact that the governments of the Republic of Slovenia never want to take into account is that Slovenia has the highest number of judges in Europe per capita. So we cannot say that the number of judges is the argument that the Slovenian judiciary makes inquality. Nor can we say that the salaries of Slovenian judges are small, the fact is that they are even above the European average. Nor can we speak or agree to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's argument that the equipment of Slovenian courts is poor is not true, just as the so-called "twinning projects" have shown that the equipment of Slovenian courts is much better than in a comparable European region. Now, if we touch efficiency. Well, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not know how to raise the issue of the efficiency of the courts, I only sincerely hope, at least I would hope that the government might be concerned about efficiency in constitutional changes, at least in that smallest argument. Excuse me. In civil proceedings, Slovenian judges make about 200 cases a year, 200 cases a year. In a comparable European region, which I am talking about from the outset, judges make between 600 and 700 cases, i.e. three times more effective in the area of civil proceedings. As far as hereditary law is concerned, the effectiveness of European judges or those from European countries is ten times greater than that of Slovenian judges. Finally, as regards the technical equipment of Slovenian courts, Slovenia is referred to by Eurostandard as excellently equipped. In the national party, we resent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for its insubordination and so much insubordination to the national party, but insubordination to the problems of citizens and citizens. Not to accept or initiate those beginnings, initiatives or initiatives to start a constitution that would actually be demonstrated in a more effective court. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to pursue this goal, the Slovenian National Party is the first to support measures that would make the Slovenian judiciary more effective. But the fact is that the government is pursuing another goal with its proposals. It follows the objective of so-called inviolability. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia we will write the existing text, I apologize, you will write the existing text of Article 129, i.e. the sustainability of the judicial mandate, the same as before, only with other phrases one beautiful norm, the so-called five-year term. Unfortunately, of course, this beautiful amendment of the Constitution, if we can call it, a beautiful correction, conducts an evaluation of a more administrative correction, will not give any effect, despite the severe needs for changes in the Slovenian judiciary. In 2000, when dealing with the law on judicial function with the issue of the privileges of judges, this National Assembly met with the question of the link between the judiciary and politics under the so-called law on judicial office. At that time, this National Assembly adopted a decision ordering the government or directing the government to consider the so-called limitation of a permanent judicial mandate. The decision was adopted at the time. At the National Party, we hoped that this would be a sufficient argument for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. the decision of the national assembly, the decision of the legislative branch of the authorities or the decision of the representatives of the people to pursue the desire or desire of the national assembly in constitutional changes. No, no, no. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of its constitutional changes, comes with five changes in pure contradictions as adopted by the National Assembly. At the national party, we find this extremely unserious. The letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the form of the Rapporteur or in the form of a material transmitted to the National Assembly, is, of course, even more inconclusive, where it is clear that the Government does not deal with measures for a better judiciary. And we cannot expect the satisfaction of people and the trust of people in different national institutions. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the holder of some part of the authority in our country, thus conveys or gives instructions on behaviour and standards to Slovenian judges. We all know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not able to look at an inch across its threshold on judicial financing issues. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia gives a certain financial part of the funds to the court, because the court claims that the courts have insufficient financial resources, although we have previously found from studies that this is not at all true. But of course, later on, courts themselves cannot agree on each other, at different rates, who will be the holder of which money rights. But the government of the Republic of Slovenia has put their hands out here. When a member of the national assembly wants to talk about this issue, both the government and the judiciary tell him the same thing. That's unacceptable. Politics interferes with the judicial system of the Republic of Slovenia. Politics wants to control the work of the courts. I'll tell him to stay! We can't talk. We give them the money they want. You attribute the constitution to them the way they want it to. Facts, comparisons with other European courts show strongly in favour of the Republic of Slovenia, by financial means, after the equipping of courts, administrative support and technical "sport". And these same comparisons, on the other hand, give a typical advantage to European courts when it is on a criterion or when efficiency is used as a criterion. So in hereditary law, civil court and all the other cases. And if this is still too weak an argument to seriously address the question of the judiciary in this country, then I do not know what a good argument is. Criticisms of the judiciary always fly from each to the same address. So it's a direct trial. That's right. Policy also bears part of its guilt, but the policy that blindly follows government proposals. However, as a result of a chain reaction, government proposals always follow the judicial branches of government. And that's why we don't move forward. If we can distinguish and see the need for judicial action, this problem is simply a solution. For this solution we are called upon, and I deliberately use the word "Europe" so many times, because at the final stage, you have all decided that everything in Europe is good. In the Slovenian National Party, on 26 September 2001, when we saw the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ignore the National Assembly, we tried to establish or table a proposal to amend the Constitution in the following dictatorship: "The judges are elected for a term of eight years with the possibility of re-election. The law lays down the age limit and other conditions for election. The law defines the age limit at which judges retire." In the proposal, in the solution of the Slovenian National Party, which, of course, did not receive sufficient support - there is probably no need to ask why - it was even an element to see whether after eight years a judge could obtain a new mandate. The criteria would be exclusively and only its judicial backlogs and the reasons for the existence of these judicial backlogs; then it could be extended, no one would object. But if neither the President of the country has a permanent mandate in this country, yes, why should judicial service be an exception? For autonomy? The same argument could be applied to all directors who are bound by their mandate. In order to say yes, we can only run a company if politics does not interfere with it. One reason is not for a permanent judicial mandate. The argument used by the judicial branch of power or the judges themselves say that this is the essence of the rule of law. From this we can conclude that the rule of law is a backlog. According to our assessment, the permanent judicial mandate results solely from one single court mandate: these are judicial backlogs and judicial inefficiencies. In the national party, we estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course, should want its solutions to be real solutions and not just empty words, should establish a system of measures. In spite of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is always ignoring us or rejecting our initiatives and proposals, if there is no time for this and with similar arguments or answers, we expect them to respond positively at least to the proposal that, if they already have a permanent judicial mandate, at least a certain type of incompatibility. Thus today the judges - 32 judges in the Supreme Court, three quarters of these 32 judges are doing parallel work as lecturers. And that's what this country tolerates! On the other hand, he says he has a backlog because the judges are too burdened. Of course, they are too burdened if, in addition to their paid service with a permanent court term of three quarters in the Supreme Court, they are still teaching in different faculties and, worst of all, they work for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the preparation of laws. These are the findings of this year when Slovenia visited the delegation and prepared a so-called comparative study. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia therefore has a judicial branch of power and, on the other hand, the same people in this branch of power are hired to write laws, and it is not surprising that they are running out of time. So the first step, if we're already giving them gifts in the form of a permanent judicial mandate, then, people, let's stop them from doing anything else! That's the way to run a government, a departmental ministry, and it really doesn't lead anywhere. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or the Minister of the Ministry of the National Party's initiative, therefore, has not accepted the prohibition of other activities. Why? The minister probably can't answer either. According to our assessment, judicial backlogs and thus the implementation of constitutional provisions on the judiciary, its independence and similar matters could also be improved by the knowledge or introduction of a simplified or simplified procedure that would allow for a faster, more transparent and more correct resolution of cases. We have also introduced this initiative to the minister or government, but there was no reply here either. But of course, since we do not throw the rifle into the corn quickly in the national party, we have also put the idea of so-called pooling of procedures when it comes to a procedure with about the same denominator as the question of denationalisation - this was also unacceptable or unfair by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The only thing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia seems responsible for solving the whole matter is to write five constitutional or five initiatives to change the Constitution and explain them in less than 10 seconds before this national assembly, most importantly, at least I hope it is the most important, and then before citizens and citizens, if anyone is watching this meeting. This is not how politics would contribute its share to an effective judiciary. In the national party, we estimate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's initiative to change the Constitution is shameful, even more so that it goes in the opposite direction, in that direction, that the trend of judicial backlogs from year to year will increase. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia even agrees to the theory of the old judges, I apologize, after years of age, which show with a finger that young judges who are unable and do not know what they are doing are responsible for the backlog. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not object to this either, despite the well-known age limitation of the judicial service. As long as we accept such explanations by the government as a reason for the backlog of the courts, I estimate that we cannot speak seriously about the issue of the judiciary in our country. I'll point it out one more time. However, whenever representatives of the parliamentary groups, at least in the national party, do this to us, I do not know how they talk to others about the criticisms of the judiciary, but at one time everyone is assessed that the policy would like to monitor the trials - of course, that is not true, but a good argument is possible for someone who is uneducated. In the national party, we still argue, the judicial mandate needs to be restricted. This would create a desire for better work, a desire for smaller judicial backlogs that we can monitor and know that more than half a million are only in our country - exact numbers because the speaker mentioned before me Legal practice, you have in the magazine Legal practice - but of course the numbers are not the worst, the worst is that customers of judicial backlogs are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that is the worst. That we have an inefficient judiciary that binds itself to the discontent of people because they cannot reach their own in court. These are the problems of the Slovenian judiciary. In the way that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to save them, it is truly unacceptable. We will not, of course, support the proposals offered by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for these and many other reasons. I am sorry that the existing Rules of Procedure allow small parliamentary groups only 5 points to be able to gather 20 minutes to discuss, because the fact is that the debate on the Slovenian judiciary should be such as to tell you where the reasons are where the real reasons I am today are, and what are those measures that would lead to the improvement of the Slovenian judiciary. The proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will not lead to this, you all know that. We also hope to prove this in the Slovenian National Party by voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Constitution on the judiciary contains 10 articles. The government is proposing that we change five of them. Whether that is enough or not, we will assess, but of course it is difficult to say that it is possible to propose changes that significantly affect the Constitution, because the Constitution is not rules of procedure, but it is a fundamental act of the State which governs a number of principles, not a lot of what anyone thinks about the constitution or a particular area. The proposed changes are therefore, as assessed by the United List of Social Democrats, large and necessary. The permanent term of office could be granted to judges after five years of the successful performance of the judicial function, with the successful performance of the judicial function undoubtedly covering, in the first place, the quality and quantity of work, which is to say that they fulfil the obligations to the work they have, and such were also the findings made by the German judge who was under inspection. On the proposal of the Government, the President of the Republic would appoint judges, but not the National Assembly, composition and competence of the Judicial Council would involve the Justice Minister and the President of the Supreme Court, and the immunity of judges would be decided by the Judicial Council. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that changes in justice are necessary and justified, but not all proposed by the government. We believe that those concerned with reducing the role of the National Assembly in this area would not be justified. However, there are changes to those issues that concern greater efficiency and greater efficiency of the judiciary, especially due to the current situation in the judiciary, because respect for and confidence in justice is diminishing because discussions on the effectiveness of justice and the slow resolution of judicial backlogs require action, where we also have questions and comments on the work of the judiciary and where we are talking about the lack of criticism of the judiciary towards its own action. On all of this, 14 days ago, we have had a successful, thorough debate, I believe that we have also adopted a few views that will help to make the judiciary more efficient and me and the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats more effective, the most important issue that we can reach in the constitutional field, the proposal that judges should be elected for a permanent term only after a certain period of five years of successful exercise of the judicial function. We believe, however, that a permanent judicial mandate is one of the acquisitions in the democratic regimes of the continental system of the judiciary and that any return to a limited judicial mandate, if the election of judges were in Parliament, would very soon lead to a deterioration in the quality of the work of the judges, particularly in order to raise the question of the political dependence of the judges on the current authority. Already there are too many attempts to influence not justice, but the trial. It is already too often assessed which judge is acting in a particular determination right or wrong, which prosecutor is acting right or wrong, and we are doing this to a politician, which I do not think is our duty. If a limited judicial mandate were introduced, there would be more. For this reason, we support those amendments that go in the direction of a permanent mandate after a certain success in the performance of the judicial function. We believe that the current composition of the Council of Justice should also be checked and that the courts will not be such a closed institution, but that a greater impact will also be ensured to the public. The other changes, and we don't think they're necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. In the package of proposed amendments, we first have a proposal to introduce a five-year probationary period or a permanent mandate only after five years. Furthermore, it is proposed that the National Assembly no longer appoints or disposes of judges. The President of the Republic would appoint judges after this proposal on a proposal from the Judicial Council. Furthermore, it is a very interesting proposal on the composition of the Judicial Council, which has so far been appointed by five members by the National Assembly. Now he is to appoint six of the 15 members of the National Assembly. Of course, it is also said that the National Assembly no longer disposes of anything, or nothing else confers immunity on the judges, but rather the judicial world. More or less to my colleagues. Furthermore, of course, in the last article to be amended, it was said that the judge, so far it had been said, should not be detained or allowed to proceed without the approval of the national assembly against him. From now on, the judge should not be detained without the permission of the judicial council. So, despite the fact that it is reasonable to suspect the need for such a procedure. We certainly see in the whole package that the National Assembly is losing its meaning. The importance and decisions concerning the judiciary are transferred to a completely different area with respect to judges. It is also here to follow that point about the programme of democratisation of Slovenia. In fact, given that the judiciary is an instrument that not only impresses but also decides whether we are or are not a legal state, and if we are aware that judges are the ones who are supposed to share the right, and if we are aware that the right of injustice is too late, it is not a right, just as the medicine is too late, then it is clear that the sense of the rule of law in our case or in Slovenia is falling heavily. The backlogs are increasing, and there are more and more epilogues of judicial proceedings such as to give rise to suspicion of judges' indiscretion, to the injustice of judgment, and to politically motivated trials. So in this case, where we're supposed to go to the reconstruction of the judiciary, there's no renewal here, there's a separation of the judicial branch of power entirely from the legislative branch, in a sense that we don't accept. Indeed, the independence of the judiciary is not that judicial backlogs can prolong indefinitely, that they can be judged without those basic, moral and ethical principles, that in fact the quality of judicial proceedings is falling. At least that's a fair impression of the public. And if only the initiative, or only the initiative to introduce the first part of the term of office, were to change in this case as temporary or if a permanent term would take place only after a certain period of time, of course they would support me. However, we should also necessarily reconsider and democratise the composition of the judiciary. Democratise, but not the opposite, to limit the influence of the public, the professional public, on the composition of the judiciary, which in this case is gaining greater weight. We certainly cannot support the whole proposal. I have mentioned only one positive point in this proposal. So if the proposal is adopted, we will certainly require that the other changes be reconsidered and deleted as far as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we have given a relatively large amount of attention to the proposal to amend the Constitution concerning the regulation of the judiciary, especially in recent months. We assess that a change to the Constitution in this part is necessary, but it is indeed necessary to supplement the proposed text in some of the solutions, and if fellow Members want the process and procedure to continue in this area, then 60 votes are needed today. If that's not the case, then this is where the story ends. Don't make me repeat what my buddy Potch said before. On those elements of the constitutional amendments, where it has been written that, on the question of the judiciary, the National Assembly will lose jurisdiction, there will then be no vote on the text of the constitutional law itself. And we will not support these solutions. Part of the government proposal, which relates to the amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, which provides for a five-year trial period, is, in our view, a meaningful solution. Last but not least, they also know this solution abroad. It turned out to have been positively adopted there. Once again, when we looked at the public presentation of opinions concerning the judiciary, we observed that the amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution was also supported by some respected experts in Slovenia, who are also first-hand aware of the functioning of the judiciary and also of the difficulties it faces. In this public presentation, it was pointed out that in practice a lower age limit for obtaining a judicial function laid down by law under the Constitution had proved to be a serious restriction, as was said. Of course, this is by no means untrustworthy to younger judges and judges. Absolutely not. But it could be an obstacle and it is necessary to take this fact into account by changing the constitution if necessary. The issue of judicial backlogs is very sensitive. This issue has also been highlighted in the process of appointing a new President of the Supreme Court. We don't want to be uncritical, and on the other hand, we want to be objective. It should be said that the Hercules programme has produced some positive results. It is true, however, that there are still some areas and some reserves and some obstacles. We therefore believe that the proposal, as proposed in this part in amending the Constitution, is not problematic. And we expect him to receive the necessary political support. Last but not least, this is just the first step, we'll almost say a three-phase acceptance of the constitution. Because today we are only deciding on a proposal to initiate a constitutional change procedure. That is why we will support him in the Group of Members. We are of the opinion that the area of justice, as regulated by the Constitution, needs to be amended to a certain extent. However, we do not support all the amendments proposed by the Government in this context. For some of the solutions, as has already been said, are not better than they have already been established. Therefore, the proposal will need to be substantively complemented in order to achieve political blue solutions. We invite our fellow Members and colleagues to support this first phase and then work together to propose the best solutions for the Slovenian judiciary when we form the content of the constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by Mr Anton Anderlič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u114	After an extensive debate in the Constitutional Commission and after a public presentation of the opinions, it was easy to conclude that the Government had put forward a proposal for amendments in this area too widely. Although this proposal would be completely reasonable and necessary, particularly when we are talking about the further separation of these two or I will say to all three branches of the Authority that the independence that the judiciary would actually have through the functioning of the Council of Justice, the proposals for appointment and immunity would be governed by alone. Such a proposal was not supported and once again it proved necessary to seek compromise and, of course, in politics it was the so-called art of possible. That is why we will also support that proposal, which introduces some experimental, initial introduction, and after a five-year period and after the last year of this trial period, candidates and candidates can run and are appointed to a permanent function. We believe that the Council of Justice should be upgraded in order to determine in the Council of Justice the majority in one or the other direction in order to prevent the so-called political pressure of later appointment or the proposal of judges to a permanent term when we are talking about this connection, from this experimental, initial part of joining the judiciary and then into a permanent mandate. Unlike those who believe that mandates should be restricted, we support such arrangements that would allow the concept of maintaining a permanent judicial function and thereby provide some fundamental guarantee of the independence of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. And also the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, presented by Mr Peter Levič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u116	With regard to constitutional changes in the field of the judiciary, the Commission noted that the proposed changes in the field of the judiciary are neither necessary nor substantively justified. We have nothing to add to this in the Party of Young Slovenia, and even a sufficient majority of the proposals on the Constitutional Commission are probably not due to this opinion. It is true that the judiciary does not act as it should, but this is a problem with the implementation of the rules, not the rules themselves. The Constitution contains the main starting points and offers an expertly designed legislative framework for the judiciary. Articles 125 to 134 refer seven times to the law and make available a wide margin of manoeuvre in all these places. With regard to the judge of the five-year trial before a permanent term, we are particularly detained in the Young Slovenia Party. Such a change would mean that younger judges would find it even more difficult to obtain a judicial office, and a mother’s judge would probably never — a career or a family. However, the possibility of being elected for a permanent term did not guarantee that the judge would also find it difficult to make the decision independent. There is no guarantee for anyone to be tested, even though he would work professionally or qualitatively to be elected for a permanent term. In general, the adoption of constitutional changes in this area would constitute a useful excuse for an unsustainable and critical situation in the judiciary, given the inefficiencies of the courts and judicial backlogs, but the fundamental reasons for this would not be eliminated. The composition of the judiciary today is not ideal, but it is certainly better than a proposal for change. According to the proposal, the judicial branch seems to be in a position to establish and restore itself in a position to do so. We do not support the changes in the Young Slovenia Party because of the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a debate between Members and Members. First, I invite you to the word of Dr. Bernick. [[You don't want to.]] Mag. There's no Mayhem. Mr. Jansha? [[You don't want to.]] Mr. Kangler, he's not here. Mr. Lavrinc, not at all. Mr. Diaci, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Petty Officer? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Barovich is not here. Mr. Jerovšek, would you like a word? [[Not at all.]] Mrs. Majda Zupan? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Noble, Kelemina, Rockhead? [[They don't want to.]] Mr. Davorin Targeton? [[You don't want to.]] Mrs. Lavrich? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Brace, Mr. Wolf, Mr. Puksic, Petan. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u118	Madam Vice President! Dear Members and Members! The aim sought by the Government with the proposed amendments is threefold. One is also sure to ensure greater efficiency of the judiciary, of course in quality and quantitative work. This is in particular the proposal to introduce a so-called initial mandate, which I would call it, but not an experimental one, because the judge in this initial term will also be a judge. It is a matter of ensuring that the judge, i.e. one who will be elected for a permanent term, is able not only to be distinguished by professional knowledge, but also by all the skills needed to carry out such a difficult work and that someone who does not feel well in such a function can leave without any particular resolution taking place in this regard. Secondly, of course, it will also be possible to make a reasoned decision on the basis of the assessments on the basis of which a permanent mandate can be granted, i.e. assessments in the performance of the judicial service, but not on the basis of assessments relating to certain other circumstances. The second direction in which the amendments go is also a greater transparency of the functioning of the Council of Justice, which we want to achieve by means of a revised composition. So, also by having the Minister and the President of the Supreme Court in him, that is to say, the arguments of all those responsible for the situation in the judiciary are faced there. The third direction is a more consistent division of power. Consequently, it is only because of some indications that this division has not been carried out in a consistent manner and that it is necessary to define differently the way in which judges are appointed. The government presented it as an entire package. If you choose to support the work of these amendments, it will, of course, be necessary to weigh thoroughly in the drafting of the text what change is justified in order not to break some sensitive relations. However, as it is said, it is a matter of pursuing several objectives, and I am sure that the adoption of these amendments would contribute to the realization of what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide, in the framework of the vote of the assembly, at the end of the last item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to seven. Agenda item - On the defence of the proposal to initiate a procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law, EPA 365-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 44 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Borut Pahor. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We will now hear the views of the Group of Members on this amendment. First of all, Mrs Majda Zupan will present to us the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear fellows and fellows, distinguished guests! The amendment of the Constitution in Article 44 wants a wide range of Members. Seventy-three signatures are attached. Provide a legal and non-disputable basis for the establishment of legally defined measures to increase the possibility of equal participation of men and women in candidateing for the highest positions at the national and local levels. Or in other words. Women, who represent more than half of the population and at the same time the largest group, are disproportionately represented in the beloved representative bodies. Constitutional change is supposed to be necessary to introduce measures for differentiated treatment of women and men, which should only mean legitimate differentiation, thus achieving equal opportunities for both groups. Right in the policy field, where the traditional area of action of men and power is concerned, women are not very many. There is no woman in the Slovenian parliamentary delegation of observers in the European Parliament, where 70% of the seats are held by men. In our Parliament, the proportion of women is only 13%, which is lower than the European average. The representation of women in the government is also not much better. By number of ministers, we are outnumbered by most of the current and future members of the European Union. A number of international legal instruments, from the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women to the recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on equal representation and political life, are trying to resolve this issue in some way. In some countries, legal measures have been taken. One of them is France, and their experience offers us reflection. In the constitutional dispute that arose with regard to this law in France, the Constitutional Court ruled that such a law was contrary to the Constitution and that such a change should be constitutionally amended. Although it means a change in the Constitution of an act and an event that is meant to be truly justified and necessary and not too often, it seems that the solution to the equal representation of women and men in the enforcement of public affairs is only legally indisputable by the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution. Today, in the context of the amendments to the Constitution, we have spoken many times about democracy, and we are convinced that there is also a balanced representation of men and women in deciding on the demands of democracy. The introduction of a larger number of women into politics could certainly mean a different culture of governance, as women can contribute to different allocations of priority issues, opening up new topics and new aspects of political issues, but we should forget that women have more problems than men in coordinating their professional and family life. High policy is a profession that requires more than a whole person, so only those who have their own household arranged to sit with them do not have to engage in an important part of their working day, which means that there should be no shortage of such economic incentives, measures and institutions that would make it easier for women to work in professional and public life, with the development of service activities and various services for assistance and support. We are also aware that the Constitution and laws cannot do all the work, it is necessary to gradually change the mindset, eliminate stereotypes and prejudices that are deeply rooted in the everyday practices of people of both sexes. The share of women in politics is not in itself an indicator of the democracy of each country, but in relation to other democratic values it can have a significant impact on the state of the spirit in society. However, we rightly expect that the measures will be designed in such a way that they will be weighed within acceptable criteria, and that they will not be produced in their contravention. In our New Slovenia Group, we support the proposed solutions, so the change in the Constitution in this sense is not opposed by the male part and the female part supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The DeSUS Group is already on the Constitutional Commission and will also support in the National Assembly the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution to lay the groundwork for equal opportunities for women and men to participate in the process of candidateing and electing authorities, both at local and national level. To that end, Article 44 of the Constitution would be supplemented by a new second paragraph, which would stipulate that the law could provide for measures to promote equal opportunities for women and men to run for elected bodies, both locally and nationally. The Constitution already gives in principle equal rights to women, but in practice in the political field of women's action there are inequalities that should be addressed by an additional law. Similar interventions into the legislative system in many European countries, in order to increase the percentage of women, have already produced encouraging results. If I only mention the Scandinavian countries, the Scandinavian parliaments, where the proportion of women is between 30 and 40 per cent, and these countries are also a long time for us to set an example in many areas of public work organisation. We can only wish that the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the additional laws in our country, with the greater participation of women, would achieve greater success as quickly as possible. The DeSUS Group will also support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we also support equality between women and men in politics. The fact is that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia expressly prohibits discrimination also in the field of sex, in its 14th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of equality before the law. The distinction was essentially unacceptable from 1941 until 1945. This also means that women have theoretically and practically equal opportunities to run for different functions in politics. This, of course, also in Parliament, and they are also elected there. However, if a elective body with more than 50 percent of the women does not elect them, there is not much to be done here. For this reason, in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we consider any changes to the rules or changes to the Constitution in this matter to be pointless. It is important that society allows and provides women and men with equal rights and opportunities for education and, of course, a free decision on career creation. Such options Slovenia provides. However, it would be good to take into account some developed Western European country. The latter are so often set as an example. Why in the highest places in political life there is representation of women in the minority, however, there is certainly an answer that should be sought elsewhere. I am convinced that this is still largely influenced by the general belief of the electoral body, to which men have increased confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Master Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u126	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we expect that the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with a draft constitutional law, will receive support, as the United List of Social Democrats is one of those political parties that have already taken a firm stand for measures to encourage and ensure equal opportunities for men and women to run for office at national and local level. Let me remind you of some concrete proposals. First, a group of 12 Members, with the first signed Lev Kreft, tabled an amendment to Article 20 of the Political Parties Bill, which received majority support in September 1994. Therefore, the 5th point of the present 19th article, which deals with what should be determined by the political party's statute, reads as follows: "How to ensure equal opportunities for both sexes in determining candidates and candidates for elections as referred to in point 4 of this Article." However, it did not receive support for a requirement for a mandatory interpretation of this provision, which would oblige the parties to take into account the statutory provisions on the proportion of both sexes on the candidate lists. At that time, the rejection of the Government's position, the secretariat for legislation and the home body to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties, submitted by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Dr Mateja Kožu Novak, made it impossible to adopt in the National Assembly in March 1996, although the applicants were prepared to take into account comments and the proposal to correct it by correcting the shortcomings. At that time, the question as to whether political parties who are usually the main candidates may, by law, prescribe an obligation concerning the composition of the list coincided with a decision of the Constitutional Court on national lists. In terms of equality of electoral rights and equality before the law, they did not recognize them as constitutionally controversial, although they constituted a serious exception to the usual criteria and method of electing Members and Members. However, the proposal to amend the electoral law, which would restrict the use of national papers exclusively to ensuring a better representation of sub-represented social groups, was not adopted. Not only in us, but also in the European Union, they see the balanced representation of women in the beloved representative bodies at all levels overcoming the democratic deficit and ensuring a more coherent and faster comprehensive development of society. At a time when the reflection on the future of Europe is outlined in the draft Constitutional Treaty, the absence of a majority of the population is noticeable. Individual women who can participate in decision-making cannot replace women as excluded majority groups because research confirms that only 30% of women's representation can ensure their impact on decisions. If women in the European Parliament are mostly represented in this percentage, their representation in other key decision-making places is significantly lower. Therefore, experience from other European countries is instructive. In laws, the stated equality in itself does not yet constitute good practice. Although Slovenia has signed various international instruments and recommendations, it has adopted, among other things, a law on equal opportunities for women and men only after it has received a warning from the European Union. The provisions of the Labour Relations Act are being enforced and could also be listed. In the UK Group, however, we believe that the Republic of Slovenia should also ratify the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, which we have already signed on 10 December 1999 as one of the 23 members of the United Nations. Greater participation of women in decision-making processes cannot be expected naturally. For example, it should take local experience with local elections. The percentage of elected saints increases by 1% at each election. There are no women in 30 municipal councils after last year's elections. Therefore, special measures, so-called positive measures, are necessary. And the proposed amendment allows them to be placed in paragraph 44, as originally proposed, or in paragraph 43, as they then proposed in a public presentation of opinions. With such a provision, Slovenia will be no exception. Among the 15 members of the European Union, 14 of whom have a Constitution, 10 members are aware of a specific provision that speaks of equal opportunities for women and men or parity democracy or positive measures. If I am more precise, the principle of equal opportunities is specifically enshrined in the Constitutions of 6 Member States. However, positive measures or measures to achieve parity democracy are laid down in the Constitutions of 9 Member States. 4 of them have both, namely Belgium, Finland, Greece and Germany. Both Hungary and Malta are among the new members. It is therefore time for the Republic of Slovenia, by means of a proposed constitutional law, to allow political parties to decide on such measures as will in the future guarantee women equal rights in decision-making and equal responsibility for quality of life in it, including the creation of a women-friendly working environment. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the path to parity democracy leads through special measures, namely quotas, financial incentives, a system of retention on candidate lists and other positive measures. We are ready for them in the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Certainly something other than male nature is written in a woman's nature, and there are many good things in this nature that need to be translated into politics. More sense for small, vulnerable life, more sense for people at the edge of society, more sense for the great problems of small people. If even in our society, women had a more important role to play in our policy, this Slovenian policy would probably be different. Perhaps this anti-democracy program would also seem different, for in a woman’s nature it is that she can listen, listen more to another opinion, respect, seek more balance and harmony. In a woman's nature, unfortunately not in everyone, but in general. I must say that we certainly support the introduction of this element into Slovenian politics, a large proportion of women in politics, in political decision-making. How to do this is still a question for us. Here's a proposal, of course we'll support it, we've supported it since we signed it. We doubt, however, that this will be enough, we doubt that this will happen without many additional things, without a better evaluation of those elements that are more written on women's nature. And these are the elements that appear in other debates, of course, because we see that they do not respect this value, I will not talk about Christian values, because you will cheer me up or something like that, but certainly about those values that are close to the human soul, close to the human heart. For this reason, we believe that this is a problem that would need a wider debate, especially if we take into account the need of Slovenian society not only in politics but also in other areas of gender balance, both in certain professions so that both elements are represented. Unfortunately, we have such a school system that it does not allow such an equation, such harmonisation, such a balance of our professional orientations. For this reason, I say that this is a broad area that would require a broad debate. Unfortunately, only one change of one article is available here and we will support this change, even though it will be a small step in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr Sugar, also for the compliments on behalf of women in this House. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Messengers and Members! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have examined in detail the report of the section as well as the views exchanged in the public presentation of the opinions. We've been introduced to interesting information. According to the latter, women represent 51.13% of the total population in the Republic of Slovenia, but the proportion of women in the highest and most visible positions within the state administration is very low. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a constitutional change has been put in place and meaningful, as it will contribute to improving the current state of representation of women in the authorities, which, compared to the proportion of men, is negligible to this extent, so that we can talk about - below - representativeness. The unequal representation of individual genders in higher positions is also present elsewhere in Europe, with efforts to address the underlying situation in many countries already beginning and still taking place. The fact is that the current situation for modern representative democracy is just before the entry into the European Union, which we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that Slovenia is certainly, unacceptable and that we cannot and must not accept. The balanced representation of representatives of both sexes is fair. The fact that this leads to better quality debates is often highlighted, as it is possible to reach politically wiser decisions involving and representing the interests of a larger part of the population through the inclusion of different views. Many international documents deal with this problem, which is still common in today’s society. With its departure in Slovenia, we are lagging behind the members of the European Union, so we must consider the present problem and its early elimination as one of the political priorities. For all possible skeptics, the expert group has also prepared an interesting comparative review of how to solve the problem in European countries. In our view, it is particularly important to point out that the adoption of measures for differentiated treatment of both sexes does not in any way constitute discriminatory regulation, but rather, through the measures envisaged, an environment of equal opportunities for both rises. So we're talking about legitimate differentiation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u132	Thank you very much. True, women and men in Slovenia have the same legal and formal political and other rights. That's right. But in practice this equality does not reflect. That's a fact. We are under representation at all levels of political decision-making, as you have all determined so far, both on loved ones and in the designated political bodies. 13% of us are in Parliament, nothing else is in the state world. After the last local elections, 13% of the municipalities, as said today, 30 municipal councils are without women's sex, the mayor is only 6%, so we have 11 mayors, and there is nothing better in the government. He even served without a single minister, which was in 1996. After much effort and stubborn insistence of the Prime Minister, we reached three in our last term, and one in our last term is without a ticket and the other in our departure. Women reach under 20% and 19% of government officials as well. Of course, they are well represented in places of higher administrative work, which are more than 50%. True, however, there are significantly fewer in the management areas. The first question in Brussels, which has been articulated loudly, the European observers of Slovenia know this clearly, was: Where are the women? And the second increasingly loud question is: will you be able to provide them in elections to the European Parliament? They fear that the predominance of one sex would undermine the long-standing efforts of the current member states in over 30% of women in the European Parliament by providing this percentage to countries such as Finland, Sweden and France, which have more than 40% or 43% of women's representation. In other spheres of government, this is said in justice, science, culture, the economy is slightly better, but only at the basic level, because more than climbing the hierarchy of institutions, fewer women are found in higher or leading cities. Thus, only two per cent of women are among the presidents of the boards of directors of companies, and in 2000 there was no representative of the administration within the larger business systems. However, the government has managed to propose approximately 22% of women in its 42 boards of directors and business committees. The Constitution allows every citizen and every citizen to have the right to vote and be elected and to participate in the management of public affairs. Many have wondered and may wonder why we are supplementing the Constitution with the possibility of introducing additional legal measures if both men and women have the same rights. That's what you were wondering today. The answer is in statistics and the answer is also in the words I have spoken before. And I add, if the situation is as it is, it needs to be rectified. Measures are therefore needed. That's a fact. It is also legal and constitutional, or any law that wishes to encourage the election of one or another sex, in one or another elections in non-conformity with the Constitution. The lesson was given here by France, which, as a result, changed the law, went to change the constitution, or had to change the constitution because it realized that the change in laws was too small. There was a different situation in Italy. In Italy, where, despite tradition, more women in politics than we currently have, quota systems have been abolished on the basis of an interpretation of the Constitution based on the principle of equality. Many also believe that the problem within us when we do not go down or when we do not enter into politics actively is that when we do not want to, we do not know or do not want to take advantage of the problem. I do not deny that we are too often determined or even haunted by the cultural, historical and traditional perception of a woman's role in society, or even our occasional lack of confidence in the art of public affairs management. I also do not deny that many are uncomfortable in an environment dominated by a runaway male world. Such doubts are, of course, not only resolved through laws and through laws or changes of higher levels such as the legal level. However, laws are important corrections that can also move the existing state of the spirit. In short, the letter is one and the practice is another. And this is devastating for the Slovenian situation. The fact is that politics that governs people's daily lives is a matter of all men and women. And if one half is permanently absent or in a minority, it means that the interests and needs of a wide part of the population are constantly ignored. If I finish. The signatory and the signatories to the proposal to amend the Constitution are aware of all this, which is why you have so mass, party-coloured and almost unanimously supported the supplement. The expert commission developed it further and transformed it into an even more binding one. She suggested that the word “may” should be removed from the text, as we suggested, which left certain doubts or the possibility that a matter would be settled if it were desired, but otherwise not. At the same time, it also proposed that the text, the dictatorship, be transferred from Article 44 to Article 43 of the Constitution, which we all supported in the Constitutional Commission. We expect that today's expressed principled support will also be involved in a real decision for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And finally, the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, presented by Mr Igor Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, I will give an opinion on the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to Article 44, namely on gender equality and on the efforts to achieve a balanced representation of men and women in political and public life, thereby promoting equal opportunities for men and women for the elected authorities of representative authorities at national and local level. The initiative includes the topic of equality, which is unfortunately only on paper in many cases in the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. in writing and does not take into account equality in practice. However, if the word is written several times, especially in the Constitution as a supreme legal act, the possibilities for equal treatment of these social groups are so much greater. It is undeniable that women in society are still in a subordinate position and represented in minority decision-making processes. The candidates for the elections themselves are less than men's sex candidates, while they are often put in the background and thus become just the organisational force of the campaign, which helps, strives for the best possible result, but remains behind the scenes. Unfortunately, we cannot condemn and say that the reasons for the latter behavior are only men’s work. Many women who do not trust other women do not support other women. In women who do not want to expose themselves, their desire is merely to help themselves while thus pushing themselves into the background and thus unselfishly allowing the success of others. Such an image or performance is then generalized and becomes some kind of stereotype also for the individual, those women who want to be politically active. The public and members of the group quickly begin to perceive them as career women, women with high egos, ambitions and the like, which is not typical of a woman and immediately has a negative foretaste. In addition to this, many times women stop at one obstacle, if we can even call it an obstacle — this is the family. The latter means a lot more to them than the situation at work. Thus, in all the obstacles, games, manipulations they encounter in political space, they give in and devote themselves only to a brighter part of life. Women often find themselves in a vicious circle from which something soon emerges or they never want to enter. Therefore, in the Youth Party, we believe that, for these reasons, a woman's part of society should be supported, encouraged to strike a balance in the area of equal representation between the two sexes. If we think about all these discussions and discussions that took place around the amendment of Article 44 of the Constitution, we can say that much has been discussed about the proposal, but most often only in the women's circle, in particular at the initiative of the Office for Equal Opportunities and Women's Sections or so-called equal opportunities groups that operate within individual political parties. Let me mention that among the players mentioned are also an equal opportunity group that operates within our party, i.e. the Young Slovenia Party. If we analyze the composition of those present in the debates, we will come to the realization that many have taken place without the presence of men's representatives, but we are actually deciding in the end, as well as today on this change, because we ultimately represent the majority. And yes, it is precisely with this change that we want to make this reform of the adoption of patterns developed, democratic, faster and more effective. If we think about the role of a woman throughout history, in all these countless roles that women have to play at the same time and that women have to play today, their energy, their will, their professionalism, their motherly sense, but after all they are not equal to men, they are not equally represented, they do not have the same conditions in many areas in social and political life today, we must ask ourselves where all of this causes; how to improve the latter and where the solutions are. Surely only a change of constitution is far from a solution to the problem, but it is the first step towards a solution and therefore has full support in the Party of Youth Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are now moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite Mrs. Zupan to the floor. Mrs. Zupan, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Patch? [[He doesn't want to.]] Mr. Conticy? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I am one of the many signatories to the proposed amendments, so it is not in itself self-evident or logical that I support the change. In the public debate, and otherwise, there was and there was still a thought that women's rights were generally decided by men or institutions that were mostly composed of men's representatives. The reasons for this are different, even historically defined, but it is time for things to change, perhaps even to change radically. This is not enough at the principal level. When we tried to settle it with the law, we were warned that it could be constitutionally controversial, so it is now changing or supplementing the Constitution. Although I am disturbed by the discussions and discussions in which some represent the advantages and disadvantages of both sexes, even though this is true, little for a joke, little for a fact that over the years the gender gap is disappearing. It is equality, respectable colleagues and colleagues, but this equality cannot be achieved without positive discrimination. But more than the so-called "privileged" election privilege, I have in mind the benefits that would make sense to talk about and also define them. For example, a woman who does a certain job has more of these and these benefits compared to a man’s representative. It is therefore a matter of encouraging women to compete for places where men now dominate. But one is speaking, the other is facts. It was very interesting to listen to parliamentary groups that did not have a Member in their ranks to defend women's participation in politics. And that's right. I have no comments because I, or my colleagues, have similar experience in the previous term. When we talked most about equality, we sat alone in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. It wasn't right, because now we know how good it is to have colleagues with us. It is precisely these days that there are a series of mysterious agreements on a new electoral law, amending electoral legislation. I hope that the authors are also thinking about the advantages and disadvantages of the new proposals related to women's choice. According to my assessment, which is not necessarily the right thing to do, to introduce an absolute preferential vote, if I mention the case, we have an electoral unit in which 11 candidates or candidates are elected, and we have 6 women and 6 men, which is already one of the positive discriminations if we are talking about equality, and I give up one place more women's sex, and of these 11, one is elected. This, of course, does not necessarily mean that a woman is elected or that women are positively discriminated against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u137	Mr. Brenčich? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps in this advertised ensemble my opinion will sound a little different. I'm not the one who gets the most out of these solutions that they are. I'll tell you why not. Since I don't want to make a decision about it, but that someone else or even women can make a decision about it, I leave it to them. However, consider a few words why my position is so. I advocate equal treatment between women and men, and I am against any distinction in treatments. I am based on the principle of equality between men and women in terms of rights, and I insist on the basis that women are not in any way worse, less capable, less valuable than men, etc., so that they should be subjected to positive discrimination to ensure equality on this basis. This can be achieved without positive discrimination mechanisms and they do not need them, because their implementation would mean recognition that they are worse than men in something. Women can stand up and compete with men without the sophisticated false presupposition of the masculinity of women from men. I do not advocate that we should impose quotas when deciding on the procedures for candidates for the elected authorities of the authorities at national and local level. It is undeniable that women in certain abilities, skills, skills are different, better or worse than men, as it is known that men and women are also different, and that in some professions men and women can be better established. However, this is no reason to move them into equal employment shares or quotas either in mining, in physical works, in masonry, in winemaking and in many other ways. Therefore, they can do better in the professions of manual skills, verbal predispositions of memory or anything else. They can therefore be better established at the work of their loved ones because they have the capacity to do so in the same way or better than men. In particular, individuals or individuals with verbal abilities, empathy, associativity, general mental abilities and anything else necessary for these professions or functions shall be shown in this field. But there's no difference between men and women, so we should intervene in the constitution. However, it is probably reasonable to intervene in some other areas of activity, by influencing public opinion and by discovering the truth that women can be extremely good people in the parliamentary group or in politics who can convince people. So there are some prejudices that make it difficult for women to exercise in these areas. That is why I am also advocating these efforts, but not at the expense of any quotas or coercion, because this assumes that they are not the same and are immature to a man. Those are the reasons. Above all, we would prefer to turn to practice. For example, the Liberal Democracy, which has the most vehement policy in terms of equalizing men and women, is, however, now sending men to Brussels in the pre-accession period. We had one choice, you had a little more chance, because you had three people, so we have 25% of the women, and I would be happy if they were even more, because they are very successful and well represented by the parliamentary group, but that's how it is. We must also give this experience through, but not by way of coercion. Representation will remain in some professions at all times, but balancing efforts are necessary but not forced. So I will not object, but I will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Tribality is gone. Mr. Rokavec, would you like a word? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I myself will support the text, as it is now drawn up on the Constitutional Commission, because it is more precise to define the part of the problem related to the situation of women in our society. The initiative, as addressed and justified, was flawed in at least two parts. She was flawed in the part where she wasn't brave enough, and she just had this word that we could handle these things with the law. In my opinion, if the will to do so, as it is now reflected in this recalculated debate on constitutional changes, such a law would be possible, even if it were not for a constitutional change now planned. The provision, as developed through the debate in the Constitutional Court, is more precise in that it leaves no choice as to the need for positive discrimination. However, this provision is currently located in another article, not the one targeted by the initiators, and from this point of view it limits the issue mainly to the issue of elections. I do not know if all the initiators and proponents are aware of this, but it is possible to reject these concerns which Mr Drobnic and others have, because they are not talking about any professions, but only about elections. It is important to know, however, that in some ways, as far as I am aware of the effort for equal opportunities, the problem of equality is not only exhausting in the problems of electoral laws and elections, but also fundamentally the problem of cooperation in the management of public affairs. Thus, the way of making a change, I will say, without this careful reflection, brings some of the possibilities that a more in-depth discussion could bring in this debate, bring a lot of, as far as the constituency of elections is concerned, but bring nothing, as far as the body of cooperation in the conduct of public affairs is concerned, where it has been primarily addressed. I take this opportunity also to say that all the things that we all like and agree with may not always be carefully thought out enough, or vice versa, that those things that are urgently needed and perhaps even considerable, but we do not like them, so we do not have the necessary hearing for urgent changes. This is my point to this whole constitutional discussion, not just this particular problem. Such corrected corrections will solve one of the key dilemmas and will leave this unfortunately open question in other segments of it, and I regret that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, he's not here. Not Barovich. Mrs. Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I would not say that today's conversation takes place in a recalculated spirit, but that it actually covers itself very much with what has already been reflected in the signatures and, in fact, within this time frame, from which the initiative has been put, has been expressed and reproduced in this space as useful and urgent and necessary. I also think that the views of those who have sincerely said today seem to them that Article 14 of the Constitution is sufficient or that it offers us enough equality and that it is really up to us, or that we do not take advantage of this equality, that this kind of thinking leads to a search or that things remain the way they are, or that this kind of submission and sub-representation may continue, or that someone may also like it. I would like to point out that such a position has also been taken by the Government's legislative service, which meets in its ranks with a very struggling number of colleagues, as already mentioned today, with only three. Nevertheless, it is the legislative service that has certainly examined the systems that are in Europe if I expose European practices that are so encouraging in fact that I do not say drastic that they can be restored and repeated at this point. It did not just happen in France, so to speak, the 50% representation of women in the European Parliament. There are measures for this, which are certainly quite foreign to our spirit, but they are. It is a principle when, for example, half or the same number of candidates and candidates appear on the candidate lists and where strict respect for the order is also required, where even state funding for co-financing is awarded to a party if a certain part of the funding is earmarked for the activities of women where customers who do not receive enough women's names in parliamentary elections are even subject to a penalty of 50 per cent. If I give an example of Belgian experience where third representation is advocated, but with a certain sanction which speaks in the direction that if the parties fail to meet these conditions, then the places to be occupied by women must remain empty, otherwise the list is invalid. Mr Kontic rightly warned us that we will be the first in a short time, and I will say, the result. I hope that the positive changes voted today, which are supposed to be reflected in the electoral law for the National Assembly. Certainly, our space does not aim for such drastic commitments as it has come and is being carried out by some other countries or countries mentioned above, which are going into really positive discriminatory measures. It is true, however, that when we create the first step, according to the electoral law, we should not forget those positive measures that most Slovenian public now find necessary, and practice, as has been said several times today, confirms this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The time scheduled for the debate on this point has not yet expired, so I ask if anyone else wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] So, I can close the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, on the final item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Constitution of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law of EPA 377-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 83 of the Constitution by means of a draft constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with first-signed Branko Kelemino. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Kelemina? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. Would you like a representative, a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Alojz Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Government representatives! Since these materials are very confusingly presented, is this Article 83 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u145	EPA 377, Article 83 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u146	Thank you very much. There are so many different documents and it is difficult to follow in the rapporteur. It seems to us that these materials are not prepared in the most transparent way for this debate. As far as article 83 of the Constitution is concerned, this article of the Constitution refers to parliamentary immunity. In New Slovenia, we are committed to amending the Constitution, which would extend parliamentary immunity to civil law as well, but with restrictions that they also know elsewhere in the democratic countries of the European Union. Without immunity in the civil-law field, it is not possible for Members to express their views fully in their work. That is also the case law in the Republic of Slovenia, which I think has collapsed the ice in such cases in the whole of the European Union. For we know that, in accordance with our legislation, a former Member of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Ivo Hvalica, has been convicted in the performance of his work in Parliament. When I reviewed the material, the explanation of this proposal and the public opinion was that there has not been such a case in the European Union countries so far. Perhaps one of those present could answer that question, since such cases are not recorded there. At least we could have heard such words yesterday in the debate on another point, but that is not the case. We can see, as we follow the debates in the European Parliament, that there are many exchanges between Members in the debates, but that does not mean, of course, that any of the Members should be prosecuted, let alone be held civil-lawly responsible. Of course, on this occasion it is necessary to say that there are also some concerns about what freedom of speech or when freedom of speech is limited by the rights and freedoms of other fellow citizens or fellow citizens. In practice, insults may occur, which may also be unfounded, and others may be affected, their reputation, their honor, or more. In this respect, they could limit this type of liability sent by excluding all cases of insults and conjectures and the possibility of making compensation only in the event that an indemnity has been found in the proceedings in respect of an act to which a declaration relates. The solution to parliamentary immunity should certainly also be provided for those acts concerning the criminal area when a Member performs his duties in Parliament, but it is not a suitable solution, as we have today, that this Member's immunity is, of course, extended by Parliament's approval to acts outside Parliament. This would be the solution to the role of Member of the National Assembly. It is said that criminal immunity to acts committed outside Parliament would be limited, however, to extend immunity to civil law in the event that a Member has done his job either in Parliament or in the working bodies of this national assembly. The proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which extends this immunity to civil law, will be supported. However, we will endeavour to resolve the issue of immunity in a European comparable way if, of course, there is an amendment to Article 83 of the Constitution. Once again, this means that criminal immunity would apply only to the performance of the duties of a Member in his work in Parliament and in the working bodies, as well as to civil immunity, so that criminal immunity would not extend to those acts committed by the Member when he did not act as a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We are in the parliamentary group on the proposal to amend the Constitution [[Article 83 is amended as follows:]] which is intended to extend parliamentary immunity to civil law as well, the unified view that we will not support this for a simple reason, because Members and Members must be aware of our rights. And rights also impose certain duties on us. For we believe that if we want our relatively young Parliament [[12 years]] gain from the citizens determined to say so, image, its value, its importance, then we cannot pronounce ourselves in such and other ways, especially not on immunity if we do such or other not only offences, offences, more. The cultural level in Slovenia is so high that it must also be reflected in our national assembly and personal insults must be obtained by another epilogue, not by concealing or hiding behind parliamentary immunity. Also, excuses, if I have committed, an example, a traffic offence, because I was in a hurry to go to Parliament so that I would not be late, but the rules apply equally to all citizens. And if we are a legislative body and are aware of this mission, then we must be the first to set the example for us to adopt these laws, as we have adopted here, even the best way to respect them. Therefore, we do not see any reason for this paragraph 83 to be amended. For we believe that the way it is written is enough for parliamentary immunity, for those things that we can and we owe them, we have the right and also the duty to express them as we think best, even for the benefit of all citizens. That is why we do not agree to such things as low blows or civil justice to justify the immunity that would give us that no one can do anything to us. This is not fair to citizens, nor to themselves. Therefore, we will not support the amendment of Article 83 in our Group of Members of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Spod Bogdan Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, opinions will be different, just as they were. If we take a look at the amendment to Article 83, and recall also the presentation of public opinions, which was held at the meeting of the State Council, I think that some year ago, a good year ago, the opinions were, of course, very shared at the time. Just the presentations that we have heard from Mr Sok, now from a respected colleague of Mr Kebric, now on my part, will be the first proof of a clear vision of why we should speak about immunity and the spread of immunity also in the civil field. Because we estimate that the young country of the Republic of Slovenia is a democratic state. Of course, democracy means a different kind of conflict of opinion, of evidence, of search, of belief. Of course, it happens that certain opinions are expressed, I am sure that most of the time in the context of speech also in a way that other individuals can, but I am speaking of course of the words spoken in this room, that is, in this Chamber, which individuals have enjoyed and, of course, made use of with civil action or tried to achieve material exploitation. I don't speak justly or unjustifiablely now. That's exactly the question. Everyone is sometimes denied, everyone says a hard word, and if it is spoken in this Chamber, if it is well-intentioned, to prove his beliefs, which thank God many times differently on one side and on the other, and thus, of course, we also achieve success and prove and demonstrate democracy. MEPs' immunity today does not protect them from civil responsibility for their opinions and voices. The current rules of procedure of Members do not protect, at least according to our assessment, sufficiently from the consequences of the public action of all Members, and the consequences of many civil actions have also been disrupted by the work of the National Assembly. We have to admit that, too. We assume that all 90 Members in this National Assembly are responsible, acting on their own conscience and in accordance with the applicable legislation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Regrettably, as I have already said, a large number of those who make use of each word, and these are many hundreds and a hundred laws in this national assembly, for such and different actions. Many times it has been shown that they were unjustifiable and sometimes justified. The aim of this amendment is that the National Assembly will work on a smooth basis and in accordance with the provisions of the legislation governing the work of Members in a democratic country in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, I think it is worth mentioning at the speech, in the words I say about Article 83 also stops - I hope that there will be no civil action - if I say so, for the relationship between the opposition and the position. The practice is unfortunately in this mandate, as far as we are concerned - this is a fact, this is not a criticism now - that none of the opposition Members in this mandate has received immunity from this national assembly. That's right. We can check this out from 2000 to today. I think it is right to balance the attitude of the opposition and the position that this democracy should manifest itself. And I, with all due respect to my colleague, Mr Kebrich, when I listened to him, must say that sometimes it is fair, Mr Kebrich, that we all recognize that we are not exactly the same and of course we are not, because yesterday until 10 p.m., today to 10 p.m., a number of laws, especially constitutional changes that are not just that, dictate an additional effort, are also sometimes saying words that are not malicious, but are words that belong to this national assembly. For this reason, it seems right and fair to tell the public, as well as to myself, that - once again - I am speaking to us the immunity for the said words in the criminal and civil field spoken for this speaker absolutely belongs to us. Thank you very much. Ah, I still have time. I'm sorry, I thought he ran away. Excuse me! I'm not going to be too long because we've probably got a lot of work to do today. I am not ashamed to admit to the general public that I am in favour of having Members say the words behind this stage both criminal and civil immunity. Sometimes a person might even wonder what is worse, that we cannot be prosecuted if we have spoken a word or two that have not been pleasing to others, and on the other hand, civil charges can be much more difficult, one way or another. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think we are worthy of this amendment to Article 83 of the Constitution in this National Assembly, assuming that we are all working honestly and conscientiously to express our views on the basis of our knowledge of the law and thus only to prove that, in the face of the diversity of opinions, we are the agents of democracy, the young democracy of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Group of Members and Members proposed that, in the view of the United List of Social Democrats, parliamentary immunity should be substantially extended, i.e. cases where a Member or a Member does not answer to the courts during the term of office. It is not possible to prosecute them now, nor would civil liability be possible after a new case against them. So far, immunity has been considered a voice or an opinion expressed at meetings of the national assembly or its working bodies and, on the proposal of Members, all acts relating to the exercise of the parliamentary function. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we do not believe that such a substantial extension of immunity is justified. The Member must be given full freedom of action but, at the same time, limited his privileged position or the possibility to abuse his immunity for false accusations or insults of others. Let the controversy among the Members be sharp. In view of the cultural level of the individual Member, it is also possible to tolerate insults and also accusations, but between Members and Members of the National Assembly; to others there must be Members and Members within the framework of the law; to others there must be neither slander nor insult, especially because they cannot defend themselves, because they are not here, among us in the National Assembly. We are convinced that this position is even more current today than it was at the time that we had already formed it for the Constitutional Commission meeting. More and more are individuals, not just among the Members, who, because of their function, require special treatment, special rights or privileges, or claim that such proceedings against them are already politically motivated. Instead of being examples, they demand an exemption from the legal system. We therefore believe that this is unacceptable in the United List of Social Democrats and that we will only strengthen the rule of law if we also ensure that equality before the law is as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Members' immunity has so far protected Members only from criminal liability for an opinion or a vote given at meetings of the national assembly or its working bodies. The proposed regime also provides for the extension of parliamentary immunity to protection against civil liability, which is also related to the exercise of a parliamentary function. The existing instrument of parliamentary immunity, on the basis of which, except in certain cases in the Constitution, a Member may not be subjected to criminal proceedings, shall be duly justified by ensuring the smooth conduct of the Member's work and thus by the part of the national assembly. The same applies to a detention facility. They also propose immunity from criminal proceedings, but we cannot say that the Member is more serious in the performance of his or her duties and that this also impedes the work of the National Assembly. In its partial report, the Section states that the current constitutional arrangements for the material immunity of Members are largely comparable to those of other European countries and that it does not necessarily need to be amended. It further points out that the regulation of procedural immunity in a series of elements is specific and significantly more extensive than in other European constitutional systems. We believe that the report shows a certain retention of the section until amendments are proposed. This is just a few arguments against the enlargement of parliamentary immunity, but the issue is not so black and white. In considering this proposal, we have also come across a number of positions which support the dissemination of immunity in a reasoned manner. Proponents argue that the extension to compensation immunity is particularly justified with regard to the critical statements of Members on the conduct of public function holders and responsible persons in all public services. These have exposed themselves to burdensome assessments by taking on such a function or service within the government and may later prove to be unjustified. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have examined in detail a number of international documents, in particular the Council of Europe documents, which are also devoted to this topic to a large extent. They state that the purpose of parliamentary immunity is to protect the integrity and independence of Members, not their impunity in the performance of their duties. In reviewing the documents, we have seen a number of interesting thoughts that we would like to share with you because we consider them to be worth considering. One of these, which has been particularly prominent in the document, is the clear link between Parliament as a cradle of democracy and freedom of speech, and there is no doubt that the reasons for restricting such freedom must be given. On the other hand, the documents define absolute immunity as a restriction or the designation of the right to access other persons to the court. Therefore, there must always be an appropriate balance between the right of speech in Parliament and the right of protection of the sighting of other natural persons. These are also the reasons why it can also be considered to change the procedure for amending the Constitution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is an area where it would be difficult to say that the right solution is only one, which is why Members of the Group are detained until the proposed amendments and we will vote in our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u156	The question that supports this proposal is whether Members and Members should have absolute criminal immunity to express their views within the national assembly or recognised immunity in relation to detention and, above all, civil law, that is to say, compensation and material leave. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that this is not necessary and that the current regime is satisfactory. The point of the Member's immunity is that the Member or the Member is operational, I will say, I will be able to do the work entrusted to him by election, but not only the Member or Member of the State as a whole. Expansion of immunity to substantive and civil responsibility, and also to cases relating to, quote, 'the exercise of a parliamentary function', not only to the opinion given within the national assembly, the proposer does not in fact have an essential or thorough justification or justification, but implicitly to know that this facilitates freedom of expression or perhaps even withdraws the so-called self-censorship. This self-censorship is supposed to be built up by the Member in the fear that he may have to answer the compensation for it, in short, to pay if he expresses himself politically incorrectly. A separate opinion from a member of the Constitutional Commission even expressed an opinion in order to allow a Member to fully exercise his control function in the National Assembly in relation to other branches of authority. We believe that there is some confusion in the proposal. For example, how should we assess what the activity relating to the exercise of a parliamentary function is, for example, a Member, in the premises of the congress room, the cinema of the assembly room and so on, in such places where he is without a travel mandate and at an event which, after subjective assessment, could be defined as a work of art, has verbally violated the liability of compensation or not. We do not have a regulation in our legal system - and we would certainly find it very difficult to write it - that would explicitly count the actions that are in such or other direct connection with the exercise of a parliamentary function. Some foreign countries exercise their immunity more precisely. For example, the Parliament in Austria shall decide in the event of detention or deprivation of liberty, not only at the beginning of the criminal procedure. In Belgium and Luxembourg immunity shall only apply at the time of the meeting. However, the Irish have a precise period of time and a spatial period when they are under the so-called immunity protection, and this is with the entry and exit of Parliament. In short, procedural immunity is based on a key purpose, and this is to ensure a smooth part of the national assembly. And in this sense, as has already been said, we believe that our regulation is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. This is followed by a debate between Members and Members. First of all, I invite you to the word "magic." Oh, you little thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. In Novi Slovenija and I myself support or agree with the proposal to change the definition of parliamentary immunity to civil law, not least because of experience with democracy and the exercise of parliamentary functions in these twelve or thirteen years of the National Assembly in Slovenia alone. Without such immunity, it is difficult to perform the function of the opposition or the function of control, what is also the role of Parliament, that it is also said that it is not uncommon to show itself clearly because it is then only in general. Finally, we also have in Parliament an institution of parliamentary control, where we also need to have certain mechanisms. How, then, should Members of these commissions work successfully? How do they perform this part of their function? However, there are certain concerns about how to enforce civil-law immunity because individual freedom is limited to other rights and freedoms. In the event of an insult or unfounded statement or claim, other persons would not be able to recover their reputation or damage. Therefore, it would be appropriate to include in the constitutional text the determination that, of course, insults and slanders are excluded, as are included in some other institutions of democratic countries. In this way, in some way, they would solve these complications that have already occurred in Slovenia, as well as the fear of Members before openly working for the benefit of the people, they would also perform this function that I have stated. It may apply if there is not sufficient support to issue at least an interpretation of the Constitution under which civil immunity would also be included in Article 83. These proposals certainly need to be considered, and I also expect such a solution in favour of the good performance of a Member's office, but on the other hand the protection of the rights and freedoms of those others who would eventually be in control procedures, so as not to endanger another person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler? [[He's not here.]] Mr. Kremjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I myself will not support changes in the area of granting immunity to Members of Parliament and Members for several reasons. Firstly, I believe that, even in the light of the discussions we are hearing, there is something else and it is a misunderstanding of the very concept of parliamentary immunity. As Shirca's colleague has already said, and this is generally known, parliamentary immunity is not to protect us from being able to speak anywhere, but to run the Parliament's work smoothly. Seeking immunity to protect ourselves, that we can also say here or outside even anything, and that no one has the right to call us to account for this, no one has the right to initiate criminal proceedings against us, but of course looking for something completely different and I object. I object because I am deeply convinced that with an argumentable word, with a non-injurious word, you can also be harsh, critical, and also creative if you need to address irregularities, as this can be done by implying with insulting, with insurrections, with half-truths, with insults. On the contrary, I think the word of Members and Members is harder than the word, I will now say, the other citizens in this country and anywhere in any country. Since it is heavier by its specific weight, it should be more responsible. And if she's more responsible, she should be, and that's why she doesn't have to be given extra protection. Additional security guards just mean that we don't have to have proof that we don't have to look for the truth, but that we can say something and then in three days, we find out it isn't. So what! To avoid this, I object to such interpretations and oppose these enlargements. We need to know, Members and Members are not judges, not judges, not gods, when people walk past us and look to the ground, but, of course, we are elected at some time to do something in this House. And we have to do this with responsibility. But we must be prepared, of course, for our actions and answer for our words. That's all. We can't let anyone be deprived of the opportunity to find their satisfaction if I hurt him or hurt him in court just because someone told me I could do it without being responsible. This would be a violation of the fundamental right of every human being to have the right to claim a right in a court of law against anyone, whether it be a Member of the State, whether it be the pope or anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The word is Dr. Bayuk. You don't want to? Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. You tell a thief, you're grounded. But thieves can steal and sue you and claim a rich retirement. This allows for the current diction of Article 83 of the Constitution. For the messenger is only criminally not responsible for what he says. It seems that the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Social Democrats want to ensure that no one can say anything against their gentlemen who are making money. I can't say the names of these gentlemen, even though I could count them for quite some time, because these gentlemen would sue me, not criminally, but civilly and have to pay. I'm already paying. I should be paying more. Of course, it's not true, sir. It's not evidence. The emissary action is something else and the fact is that the evidence is here by the police or here are law enforcement authorities that prove and interestingly even to proven thieves who have been called thieves are the people-messengers they had to pay. Otherwise, it is very difficult to prove thievery in Slovenia, because two political parties are so powerful, at least two who do not allow them to be punished. Tell me how many gentlemen have been locked up for all kinds of shit. What's going on with the SIB bank, except you don't let cops investigate things and bring evidence to the table. And now you will prepare another option on pooling certain police sources so that nothing can be explored at all. Of course, only Members should be silenced. For only the Members have a chance to say what to say, but when they say a name, a limp, a court and strike him for a few million tolars. That's great! Of course, the judges you have under your command, in one way or another, you gave them a life sentence so they could do anything. Prosecutors will do something similar or the same, clearly, as the masters will tell them. And what's going to happen? Slovenia will sink into crime deeper and deeper. Of course, there are always nice words here, by saying "Yes, we are the same, we are Members of the people and the people are the same as us, and we are the same as the people". Please! Please! The people have you full of suitcases with your pretending! He's got a full head of you and that pretty talk of yours. Tell me how many drug lords have locked up under yours, I'd say, dictatorship! Nobody's sitting down. They're all out there, and they're still happily serving. You'd think someone was picking up some percentages of it. Maybe even them, I can't say names, because I'm going to sit in a criminal suit again, even though our officers have already written about their names. Even OSIB banks can't be told anything because someone's suing him. And of course, those who got fattened would recover their money, and they'd stick some more money to that big pile of money. Don't be ashamed to limit the opportunity for Members to speak here, in Parliament, to say what people think! Slovenia is sinking into the police state, from day to day we are a more police state. You're restricting everything to people! And what do you give them? Nothing! Floscules and your own good positions in the companies, in the boards of control, and I don't know where else, on the boards of directors, and I don't know where. And now you want this last chance to vote. The next round will be sure, which is partly already in use here in the current article, to return to that infamous article on verbal delicacy. I'm still waiting for this; I don't think we're gonna have to wait very long. Counsellor of the government, Mr Bohinc, in this area, a member of the United List will, of course, be delighted to make another such escapade, as he is, after all, accustomed to the times when he was establishing a party for Yugoslavia when we were fighting for independence. That's great! I don't know what else poor Slovenes and Slovenians should do or citizens. To those who cheated and stole, you will first give all the documents and then the compensation, and what should we do to those Slovenians who respected the laws and who paid the taxes and so on? What do we do? Yes, Mr. Lukič Jaša Zląbec is smiling, and perhaps I could remind him of some moments in his service, right? [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, yeah, I know he's lying, I know he's lying, four hundred copies of different accounts, weird ones. Also, I guess I can't talk about it, because someone can sue me. So, what will happen to our beloved country? And what will happen to citizens and citizens? The only thing that's gonna happen is they're gonna return the passports when they become apathy, and maybe some other international institution will protect them, or what? As in the Slovenian National Party, on the one hand, we are extremely critical until we enter the European Union, and on the other hand, we just think that maybe Europe will step on some kind of thief. Even Russia has started to step on some of its fingers and even in some other countries. There's still nothing with us. Still nothing. Not because lawyers would be so good, but because of other reasons. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Yes, I can see that the President has already already warned me that I must stop. We in the Slovenian National Party will support the amendment of Article 83, and I hope that this support will be so great that the amendment will be adopted. In all the nonsense that we accept today, and that we will accept, that is a very smart change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Maybe just one brief thought to that question. The fact is, a word can kill. And if it is pronounced in public space, its weight may be even greater. Therefore, I believe that on the one hand, the responsibility of the Member and Members is very great for the words spoken, because they are spoken in a public place. On the other hand, freedom of speech must also be guaranteed. Here I believe that it would be necessary for the proposers of these changes to be correct. If changes were to be made only in this direction, to some extent to be tolerated by the word spoken here in the national assembly of working bodies, then this would be another question. But the proposal goes even further, including in the civilian field. It is also said that outside of this house, it can have a much broader dimension. However, I would only touch on one question of the words spoken here in this house. The fact is that a Member must have at least as reliable information in the words spoken here in Parliament, at least as many as the Prosecutor has in bringing a particular motion for an appeal to a court, and that is when the Prosecutor may miss it. I believe this is not such a simple dilemma ahead of us, and in European countries this issue is very different. In some, however, there is a much more liberal view of the words spoken in parliaments than we have, and of course it is the fear that Members could then be separated from the people, so that they are not subject to the very same or the same criteria as all other citizens and citizens. I believe that it would probably make sense in the law on Members and elsewhere, in other sectoral laws, to think in the future that these issues could be better addressed, to say in this sense that freedom of speech in this house may not be questioned. This would probably be very wrong and it could be a departure from basic democracy, or from parliamentaryism, where a debate is supposed to open up and it is available to each individual to express his or her opinions freely. I think that's the question. It is likely that this proposal is a somewhat unfortunate attempt to amend the Constitution, but it is with some good will to regulate it in the field laws as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mrs Shirce is not, Dr Bernika is not, Mr Barovic is not, and onion is not. Mr. Wolf. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u166	Thank you, Chairman for your word! Dear colleagues! I will begin in the way that has already been heard in this hall. If you tell a thief he's a thief and it turns out he's an innocent person, it's also a good thing for an MP to answer in return. However, if a Member, any one of us who has the information that they are awakening to, according to his subjective assessment, doubts as to the fairness of any crime, is obliged to inform the competent authority accordingly under today's constitutional and legal arrangements. If he doesn't, he's criminally responsible for the cover-up. Of course, even from this city is able to talk about crimes, but it can be done in a different way. I have the information that XY has possibly committed a crime in these and these transactions, and I call on the government to, or the police to check it out, and so on. Listen, compensation is not about covering up crimes. In the matter of compensation, if you inadvertently incriminate a person’s words, you slander him, and it turns out that you have caused him harm, then the court will judge. I think that this debate, of course, in the way it was started, will not lead anywhere. And it's a distortion of legal facts. Of course, I will object to the proposal itself, as it is for the beginning of the amendment to the Constitution in Article 83, because it extends so-called material immunity or identity to civil liability, although it must be recognised that this civil responsibility is known by almost all of Western Europe, with the exception of Germany, which exempts insulting slander and indemnity from this liability. Such a proposal would, of course, be conditional on my own consent, but I cannot agree that this civil liability also extends to actions outside Parliament. Here is the question whether someone who opposes it does not want to hide his way of acting and protect himself from becoming, forgive this term "holy cow" that no one can harm him. And that is the issue which alone, I cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Areh Lavrich? [[You don't want to.]] Mr Kramberger is not here. I have exhausted the order of the Members and Members notified. Since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr. Sok and Mr. Barovich, five minutes each. Then please keep your hands in the air for a few seconds. Mr Sok, Mr Drobnic, Mr Kebric, Mr Potrč, Mr Barovic. Let me repeat the Members who have made themselves known: Mr Sok, Mr Drobnic, Mr Kebric, Mr Potrč, Mr Barovic, Mr Vukko, Mr Pece. 35 minutes. Mr. Sok, please. Everyone has five minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. To complement what I said earlier in the role of our Group of Members. In our constitution in Article 83, we actually have some strange solution to parliamentary immunity. In our country, someone may be citing parliamentary immunity for a crime he has not committed in connection with his work. Chaje, I don't know, guilty of causing a traffic accident or leaving the car somewhere and leaving or something, may then plead with Member States' immunity and the National Assembly may decide to do so. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Wolf, I listened to you, and please, if you don't mind me. So it can refer to parliamentary immunity. However, he may be punished for the words spoken here in Parliament. And if we come from this practice, today we have cases of two fellow Members of Parliament, one is Mr Ivo Hvalica, who has documented certain actions to the state's official, some commissions in deciding where schools will be built or something like that, and he has been punished. For example, our fellow Member, Jelko Kacin, who went and physically attacked him, was not responsible for this act. Why did Praiser answer? Probably because he belonged to the opposition. And the other act of fellow Member Puksic, who served as chairman of the commission of inquiry. The act he carried out in connection with this function was civilly responsible.I do not know if he has been fully convicted, but, at a second stage, he has actually been punished. I, for example, here, the last time that Mr., a fellow Member of the LDS, Mr Lavrinc, accused Peterlet's government of being guilty of the problem of the deleted, I considered that statement to be stupid. He got up and threatened me to insult him. So, I can expect to face civil proceedings for insults and that I will because he challenged me, because, of course, it is clear that Peterlet's government has not passed laws, but that Parliament, as it accepts today, will be able to sue me. And because I belong to the opposition, of course, I believe I will also be punished. Once again, when we are talking about civil law immunity, we are not saying that this would belong to the Member for all his work or beyond what he has done and done outside this house. Once again - and of course I agree with Mr Vukko here, if we open this article, this can all be arranged - this immunity to him, after what we are defending, belongs only to what he has said with his work in the performance of his post in this house, it is said, at this plenary session or at meetings of working bodies. All those who debated very much because people don't like to hear that Members of Parliament would be extended to any of the areas, of course you wanted to be liked by the audience with your discussions, by the citizens who accompany us, who listen to us, but that doesn't help solve many problems. These two pioneer judgments, the convictions of two of our fellow Members, are acting in the direction of a preventive threat. None of the Members will dare to use strong words and report to anyone, if I say so, a thievery act. But the problem in our country is that you can't prove that someone is a thief. All cases so far have ended by condemning those who have warned, not those who have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, in the end, when you bring your suit to the D.A., you'll have to tell me who this person is, not "xy". Complaint, yes, and you will. This means that the same is true for the prosecutor, sooner or later he will have to say who this person is. So much for the joke that you know that things can be limited here, or that they're open, that's why we're kind of opening it up. In my office, including the petition committee, as you know, I have official hours in the National Assembly at least once a month to have people come to complain. And they tell me about Sicura, and Juliana, Black Wood, Elan, and so on. Let's do something! Let's do something -- this one, let's do the third one. You just can't do that. There is no way to do this, because we will be even more handicapped than we are now, and especially when certain lawsuits have been filed, of course no Member will be willing to point out directly, because otherwise they will say that it is empty straw, because it generally says how much crime there is in Slovenia. We all know how nice it is to talk here, how much crime there is, maybe there in East Dolenjska, North Koroška, and I don't know which one. It won't work. I therefore propose that we amend this article, but of course we eliminate insults and slanders. This is a solution that would imply some real solution that persons are protected from such practices and, on the other hand, we can carry out our mission. And for once, I can't go to the D.A.'s office and tell him this thing in Elan was done by an XY person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! I did not quite understand my colleague Barovic when he referred twice to my implementation, but if I was not precise enough, I will say the following. People are different. I will not list by what, but also by character and even by temperament, by vehementity. In a heated debate in a real dialogue in the sense that everyone is carrying out his arguments, his power, it can happen that someone is too hasty in some word to speak sometimes faster than he can think. But there is an institute of apology if I was wrong. And between colleagues, that's normal. If I am eloquently unwarranted, unjustifiable, and perhaps even accused on the basis of the information I have at my disposal, there is still a possibility, not first in court, but first among colleagues, among people, because only by doing so will we raise our reputation that the citizens in us will see those who wanted to see them when they were elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We have decided in the National Assembly that we have public meetings, and if, also, TV and radio have decided to broadcast them, so be sad who ever likes, who doesn't, doesn't make any sense. Everyone speaks what he says has responsibility for the spoken word and is pleased or displeased with the electorate and the electorate. I think it would not be the most objective to report to the representatives of the coalition, to talk more or to want to please more. Second. Problems or problems with immunity have only a few Members and Members. There's only a few of them. So far, only a few have been asked or suggested that immunity may or may not be granted. Things are different, but there are only a few. And because of these things, something about changing solutions in law and in the constitution doesn't seem right to me. And in the end. In particular, I would like to thank Mr Jelinčič for the debate. His debate is a living proof that the Constitution does not need to be changed, for the Member and Member may speak in this national assembly what they want, if it pleases him, even the untruths, if it pleases him, even stupidity. That's why nothing happens to him. The question is, of course, how many electorates and voters believe him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I will not let go now of what anyone has ever said, I would like to give another argument, very concretely, why we support the amendment of Article 83. Look. It is true that Members of the National Assembly have a control function up to other branches of government. The claims and statements made by a Member on possible irregularities or even abuse of public office holders are, in particular, in the executive or in the case of state institutions, sometimes very difficult to prove if there is evidence. However, the inability to access evidence can, or often, encourage the opposite, accused, not accused, convicted, accused of seeking material satisfaction before a court of law, even if the suspicion of abuse is evident. This is also the conclusion of a recognised legal expert, and this is a fact that holds, and let's say we should have a legal formal conversation in this national assembly, because, as we have heard, the word is that word and if we talk as some people talk about it, then we will soon be able to appeal or meet in court. This is another reason why we want this change in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. A claim previously made that a Member may invoke immunity in the event of a drunk driving, as it was said, is simply not true. Such claims are merely ignorance or lack of knowledge of the Institute itself. Immunity, wait, if it causes a traffic accident with bodily harm, it is a crime for which, by law, there is no punishment for more than 5 years, but that does not mean that his criminal responsibility is also excluded for this traffic accident, but that procedural immunity is established to enable the smooth work of Parliament. Procedural immunity is only relative, which means that it is bound to a Member only during the term of office. When his term expires, he is placed in such a case as we are now dealing with, in the event that a Member causes a traffic accident with a fatal outcome, he is brought before a court and his criminal responsibility is determined. Therefore do not say that the Members, any of us, are immune from such acts. One more thing. This procedural immunity is not given in itself, but the constitution in this part also lays down the conditions. The first is that an individual Member or Member of Parliament refers to it. However, the responsibility of this National Assembly, in which cases Members or Members of the immunity are allowed, if I may say, to approve and to assess whether the work of the assembly will be hampered as a result of the procedure for possible detention. Why would I object to this proposal at all? I personally believe that, unfortunately, we have not yet mature enough to begin to amend Article 83 in the way it was established with regard to immunity in Western Europe, we have not yet matured. We all simply imagine that immunity is established because of the interests of the Member, not because of the interest of the work of the national assembly, which is the highest legislative body. And until we all get it together, we get it, it's a shame to support a point, some content that we don't know how to design properly or, if I use it, pack. Therefore, I would, of course, stress once again, vote against the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution in Article 83.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u180	I'd just like to replicate Mr. Wolf for a moment because he's distorted my words. I have said that if a Member is guilty of causing a traffic accident, it is said that he has committed a crime that is being prosecuted under the crime law and of course I also know that it is procedural immunity, but of course we also know certain obsolete hands. And in the event that the Member is re-elected, it happens that he is never responsible for such an act. And that, of course, does not seem good to me as a Member. And if we have to put an end to something, we should stop the fact that a Member for such acts can protect immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. And the last discusser, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u182	Your Honors are here! I'm sure the debate around this point is going in the wrong direction. As I have participated or listened to these debates now, we see that it is taking place in this direction. First, it's incompetence and secondly, it's intentional lack of perception. And it makes sense for Mr Wolf to explain to the bearer of deliberate misapprehension the purpose of this constitutional change. The aim is exclusively to equalise opposition and position members and to ensure that the Member's work is ensured. The fact is that we are chosen solely to adopt laws and to make our views known to them. And our role as opposition Members is different from that of government Members. You want it or you don't want it, you're nodding to the government, regardless of the content that's going on and you're always agreeing with the government. Members of the opposition are also trying to draw attention to irregularities. And unfortunately these irregularities are too much in our society. And instead of all being happy together, we're at least trying to expose some of these irregularities in our society, stop them, no, you're talking about some kind of privilege. It's not about privilege, it's far from that, and it's never meant to be. At the National Party, when we were preparing for this point, we even tried to agree not to discuss it, because one of the members of the government majority, the one who is always nodding, has even been dictated by the holy cow. And of course, in such a case, and under such a theory of acceptance of such constitutional matter, it is impossible to discuss further. I don't know how a government MP who never hangs that sword of suit can even talk about some kind of lawsuit. I think it would be very sensible for the opposition Members, who are always, at any time, criticized by this sword of suit, to speak above them. No action in this mandate or immunity has been requested for a government Member. When asked by the opposition Member for the ease of doing his job, he referred to it and was never given it. These are essential differences and we also want to correct this in the Slovenian National Party. This is that together we will all draw attention to mistakes, and these errors through the warning, also improve in our society. The purpose of the event is, at least, to Mr Hvalica years ago, which is only up-to-date, because of a lawsuit that hangs over him or is already legally binding, and the purpose of the Members of the Slovenian National Party is exclusively and only to make the best decisions. It is therefore reasonable for us to introduce this institution, which will allow, above all, the opposition Members to work normally and to carry out their functions, in the words "words" spoken for the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, on the final item of the agenda. So I interrupt this agenda item and we move on to 9. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF A PROCEDURE TO AMEND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA 390 III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 14 of the Constitution was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with the first signed Meran Ptrče. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Miran the Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. 42 Members and Members took the initiative of disabled organisations in Slovenia and proposed that Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which establishes equality before the law, should be supplemented by an explicit statement that the same rights are guaranteed to everyone in Slovenia, irrespective of disability. There was no need for a two-thirds majority in the Constitutional Commission for this proposal, even though no one voted against it. The main concerns regarding the proposal were related to the fact that Article 14 of the Constitution must be understood in such a way that the non-discrimination provision, irrespective of any other personal circumstances, also includes disability. However, it was also explicitly stressed that there are no legal obstacles to the inclusion of disability in Article 14. We agree that disability protection in the Republic of Slovenia is given special attention. We can be proud of the legal and actual regulation of the situation of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Slovenia, since it has been the least comparable to most European countries for many years. The amendment of the Constitution is therefore not necessary in order to ensure new rights or to foresee new material obligations. Nevertheless, the proposed supplement is important. The continuation of such a definition and policy would also highlight at the symbolic level. For a large population of people with disabilities in our country, this would be extremely important. The adoption of this supplement is legally indisputable, so it can mean an important positive addition to the Constitution and in the European Year of Disabled Persons, which we celebrate this year, it can also be a beautiful gift from the National Assembly for Disabled Persons. I do not therefore claim that a change to the Constitution would be necessary. I am not saying that it would change the actual situation of the disabled, even less that today the disabled would not have many rights. But rights for every group that is handicapped, and this also applies to the disabled, are never too much. And if any of these are symbolically written in the constitution, that's even better. And finally. Since we will be full members of the European Union on 1 May, the European Constitution will also apply to us. So let it be true, including with regard to rights, not only with regard to obligations. And human rights and equality before the law are further elaborated in the European Constitution than in the Slovenian Constitution, although we can also be proud of the development of human rights in the Slovenian Constitution. The Article on non-discrimination of the European Constitution also explicitly prohibits any intolerance based on disability. The disability is clearly recorded. The decision to include disability in Article 14 of the Slovenian Constitution will therefore be a truly European decision this time. I expect a sufficient number of Members and Members to vote for it, and I ask you to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. I give my word to a government representative. [[He doesn't want to.]] Presentations of the views of the members of the groups. First of all, New Slovenia, Master Janez Drobnič. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then Mr. Kebrich, DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we will all unitedly support this amendment or Article 14 of the Constitution. Why? We believe that society is being humanised and that all who have such or other physical defects do not go on this occasion to discuss articles of the Law on Health Insurance or Pensions, what is declared to be disabled there. But the general definition among the people is that anyone who has one or another physical impairment is in the jargon of a disabled person, or has already been born, but not only is it physical, but it can also be psychological, mental handicaps. In the parliamentary group, we studied the materials sent to us by various institutions. It is true that some may claim that a provision has already been made for disabled persons in the Constitution among other social rights. On this occasion, let me point out that the disabled do not want mercy. Disabled people today want only equality for those jobs they are capable of. We believe that if I give an easy example that someone who is blind, a person who is blind, can write very well and very quickly and appropriately on a typewriter or other devices that have a keyboard system or the like. On the other hand, the European Union, in its proposal for a constitution in several articles, stresses this, indeed, for social rights among others. Today, in Slovenia, we can be proud of the fact that, even with the change of constitution and the explicit record for persons with disabilities in Article 14, we will set a pattern and we will be among the first to give due importance and, above all, equality to this area. Human rights will also be duly represented in the Constitution through this article, and we believe that it is right to unify ourselves and get enough votes when we vote. I highly doubt anyone will be able to look a cripple in the eye if we don't accept it today. This will degrade him, putting him in the second class of citizens. That's not what anyone in our country wants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u188	Your Honors are here! It is an illusion to expect the completion of Article 14 of equality before the law to lead to a solution. Even more senseless or immoral, however, I feel as if the public were convinced that the adoption of such a constitutional change would lead to some substantive progress. The fact is that the present article 14 speaks very clearly - I will only read the last paragraph - they are all the same before the law, all of them, no matter what. If we start to expose individual standards or categories of people, that will not be the end. The fact is that the Constitution should not be taken as some kind of cosmetic paper, but should be viewed primarily in substance. However, in addition to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the issue of disabled persons should be considered. And gentlemen, who today will talk so much and probably also continue to talk a lot about this kind of need and the inability of a later view of the disabled, you know, at the beginning of this term, this National Assembly met with the Slovenian National Party's proposal to set up a committee, the working body of the National Disability Council. Let me surprise you today: you voted against! You have voted against a working body dealing with disability issues in our country. And who today is the one with the double face who hopes then to say that those who do not support this norm are purely cosmetic norm, that they are not worthy to speak of the disabled? No, it's a hoax, gentlemen. We met with the need for a disability committee, but then it was said, no, we don't need it. Two months ago, this National Assembly met with the Animal Protection Act I proposed. I introduced a category of disabled people and disabled devices into it, if that's what we can call blind dogs. The mother’s working body was rejected by the law because it said that the disabled’s material was not suitable for marriage. The mother's working body rejected the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has rejected the law. What does that mean? This means that it is only up to you - it is that this word, without any substantive consequences, would be introduced into the constitution to the public to tell it, because you are a constitutional category, but you cannot be helped in substance. This, we estimate at the National Party, is a double morality! It is still waiting for this National Assembly from the independence of the Republic of Slovenia to the basic, roofing law. But that doesn't hurt anybody. What is important to you right now is that word, while you missed five opportunities to do something for the disabled in this country. There is something else to be said about constitutional matter. Disabled persons today are constitutional matter in Article 52. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia we have even some other constitutional materials, which have not been fulfilled since the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. These are - I don't want to make any connections, but to your knowledge - the Roma community. I want to tell you that even if we put this in the constitution, there is still no guarantee that these people will begin to be viewed with the right measure that would reflect on their quality of life. It is too little, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this constitutional initiative. Unfortunately, most of the possible solutions to the disability issue in our country have been rejected. You have rejected the idea of a working body, of a regular working body of the National Assembly, which would be motherly and responsibly in this area, which would be the addressee not only for disabled organisations, but for all those who deal with this issue. You didn't let that happen. In the National Party, precisely because of the performances that were before me - Mr Jakič was already a speaker before me, because you told me something earlier - I must say, no, we will not oppose this constitutional amendment or the proposal for constitutional change. But I'm clearly calling you here today, or I'll tell you, you're two-faced! You had a legal option, but it wasn't acceptable to you. You had the opportunity of a working body, but it wasn't acceptable to you. Today, though, someone hopes to come up here and say who will not support this, he must never speak of the question of the disabled again. This is immoral, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is, just by writing down, we will never solve this issue by amending Article 14 and that this is just a departure from the next solution. The contents are saved elsewhere. And content should have been resolved long ago, both in the form of a law and in the form of a working body on disability issues. Once again, I stress - that there would be no one to say that we have opposed the issue of disabled people in the National Party - we never, unlike you and we will not be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro, United List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u190	Thank you very much for your statement, Mr Vice President, to my colleague and colleague. Also in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will be proposing to amend the Constitution, Article 14, which speaks of equality before the law and says that everyone in Slovenia is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, irrespective of any other personal situation such as nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political and other belief, material state, birth, education, social situation and, of course, disability. This initiative was signed by 42 Members and Members of Parliament in the National Assembly. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we have decided to fully support this proposal, mainly because of the fact that this proposal has been discussed for more than a year in all organisations, civil society and non-governmental organisations, and we have reached a nearly complete consensus in this area, but this word of disability is inserted into the article on human rights. Significant movements have taken place in the field of disability protection and, above all, there has been an overemphasis based on the mercy and alleged infirmity of persons with disabilities to be cared for. The situation has improved so much that today we are talking about the integration of people with disabilities in society. This idea is based on the fact that people with disabilities have the right to family and life in the normal living environment, that they have achieved the necessary preparation for independent life and training and adaptation to the environment at all levels and to a new difference and reality. Rehabilitation programs have changed, which have increasingly trained disabled people for independent and independent living. This was followed by changes in the functioning of services, the development of technical tools and the development of additional services for disabled persons. Major changes in policy and mentality can be summed up in some of the key developments that have led to today's proposal. The first step was taken in 1981 when the International Year of Disabled Persons established the password "perfect cooperation and equality". The period from 1983 to 1992 was declared by the United Nations to be decades of disabled persons, after which the standard rules for equal opportunities for disabled persons were adopted and later adopted at the 1993 National Assembly. These have also been very active in practice, with a number of concrete measures for implementation in the environment. The State is responsible for the preparation of effective programmes for the integration of persons with disabilities into society, as it has the opportunity to implement all of these also through the framework programmes and incentive instruments. Much has already been done, the law on the use of the Slovenian Sign Language has been passed which recognises to deaf persons the right to use Slovenian Sign Language and the right to interpretation for sign language. This will improve the possibility of access to adequate education, as well as the possibility of professional inclusion of persons with disabilities in society. A law on disability organisations has been adopted, which legitimizes the 18th Standard Rule on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities Organisations, as well as the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, which will give effect to the fundamental principle of non-discrimination. Specific measures are needed, such as the provision of sign language, adaptation of jobs, accessibility of websites, the provision of an accessible built environment. Therefore, laws are also being drawn up and a law on the employment rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities is being drawn up. Life is more than just written words, rules of law, guidelines. The most important thing is what we can really implement in practice. In doing so, it is important that it represents the general conditions and rights of persons with disabilities and identifies the ways and possibilities of their lives and applications as usual, sometimes for people with disabilities insurmountable frameworks. Therefore, we strongly support the amendment of Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations Social Democrats Group, in order to explicitly mention disability among the reasons for the prohibition of discrimination. The task of all of us is to raise awareness that will classify behavior and acceptability for diversity. What we can do for the disabled today, even tomorrow, is important for all of us. It is good to know that a large number of Member States of the European Union define disability as a personal circumstance on which no one should be discriminated against or which ensures equality before the law, since the same human rights and fundamental circumstances, including disability, must be guaranteed. Such provisions shall also include the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, Article 21. It is particularly important to emphasise that an identical provision is also included in the European Constitution. This is also why we will support this proposal in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr France Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We are of the opinion that this contribution to this article will not mean any harm or benefit to the disabled. The fate of the disabled is being governed elsewhere. Last week we only got into the parliamentary procedure to amend the law on pension and disability insurance, where it is said to be invalid III. the category in the case of technological surpluses or, where it is no longer capable of working where it has been working indefinitely, it will have to sign a withdrawal declaration or termination contract and be offered a new contract for another work. So far, it has been considered that his employer did not terminate his contract, that he could move him or he had to move him to easier work, and that he maintained the same personal income - at least the same, he could not be smaller. If he's a worker, he's disabled III. The category, rejecting this, will end the working relationship, will have no right of departure and so on. The rights that are diminishing. The disability becomes the same to our health. They're all the same before the law. They're all the same. One step further, and in the parking lot reserved for the disabled, a healthy person can park because before the law we will all be the same. I think there is another question behind this dictatorship: Is positive discrimination for people with disabilities ensured? This raises the immediate question of whether we have ensured positive discrimination for other marginal or handicapped groups. These are the patients, these are the elderly, disabled. Why we only bring in disabled people here, why not those who were also handicapped at the moment of their illness becoming disabled. Why not the patients and the sick and the like? We are losing some logic in this debate, some systematic approach. I believe, however, that once again the fate of the disabled is being shaped every day in this national assembly with laws and similar things. We're a little more stepmotherly than here, because we know that there will be no consequences, that it's just a beautiful adjustment. But since it's just a beautiful adjustment, of course we can't be against it, of course. Although it would be wise to include patients in it, it would also be age-impaired and similar. At this point, we would like to point out to this national assembly that when it comes to people with disabilities, we show a genuine commitment to regulate their rights in this area as well, to ensure positive discrimination, and that no one will somehow want to invoke equality before the law on the basis of this article. We can't be the same. No, no, no. That is why, of course, we will support this proposal, with all the awareness that I have given here, because the very expression of the disabled involved in this article does not mean harm to the disabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u194	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! This year, 10 years have passed since the United Nations General Assembly adopted standard rules for the equalization of disabled persons. In honour of this, the Council of the European Union declared 2003 the European Year of Disabled Persons. This is also another opportunity to draw the attention of the general public to the situation of persons with disabilities and to deepen action against all the forms of discrimination that people with disabilities, unfortunately, still face. It is important to say, however, that Slovenia would hardly be able to see that it does not pay attention to the protection of persons with disabilities. In Europe, Slovenia has even one leading role in the field of disability policy. As with different areas of life, this does not mean that there is no more to be done. The question therefore arises to what extent and why constitutional change is necessary in this area. The example of European countries can be an argument. If I may remind you of the part of the section's report, it says: "Even if the proposed amendment leads to an improvement of the current constitutional text, there is no such nature at all after the proponents themselves have explained that its adoption would be necessary, since it would eliminate any legal, political, social or other problem that would already appear in practice, or that such a problem could at least be foreseen as a real possibility." This is said if we did not have before us a package of constitutional changes, we would certainly not be considering this change today. This needs to be said directly. Finally, even in the debate on the Constitutional Commission, as well as in the professional public, there were opinions in the public opinion that the general article on non-discrimination was sufficient. For within the doctrine of Article 14, which reads [[Quote]] "or any other circumstance." [[End quote]] in this way, we can read the prohibition of discrimination, i.e. discrimination due to disability. It is true, however, that in practice it can be shown that legal acts and software documents, which explicitly do not contain any mention of disability, also do not produce the desired results. Slovenia is just before it enters the European Union. Perhaps this is an opportunity to look for incentives and examples of good practice in European countries that we will be connected to in a few months' time in the new community even more often than ever before. The importance of general awareness and emphasis on discriminatory circumstances faced by persons with disabilities and the pursuit of their solution is also recognized by the European Union. Madrid Declaration [[This is a document from the European Union in 2002, you've already talked about this fellow]] , which contains the vision of the European Union and associated members' action on policies towards persons with disabilities, summarises all its essence in this brief opinion: "The non-discrimination in relation to positive measures brings social inclusion." In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is now an opportunity to take a decision on the proposals for the opening of a procedure for amending our Constitution, to highlight another document of the European Union, a document we call the European Constitution. This document, however, prohibits discrimination on the grounds of disability, includes at least two places. For this reason, we believe that the European Union has made an important step in its efforts to ensure the successful social inclusion of people with disabilities through the dictatorship of the European Constitution in this area. We are also of the opinion that our efforts must be made in the same direction. It may therefore be appropriate to discuss this change this year, in the year of disabled persons. I'm concluding. In the Member of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the efforts of applicants as well as national disability organisations to promote equal opportunities for people with disabilities. Therefore, we will also support the proposal to initiate a constitutional amendment procedure with regard to the inclusion of disability in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The position of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u196	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal from a group of Members with a first-signed Member, Mr Miráním, to amend Article 14 of the Constitution, which should also include the concept of disability in the article on equality before the law. Although this is a proposal made by the section of the Constitutional Commission in its partial report on 18.6.2003, it will be supported by the majority in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Today there are about 600 million disabled people in the world. Each of us can become disabled at any time, and because the population is old enough, many countries will experience an increase in the percentages of people with disabilities in the future. The fact is that people with disabilities, both children, women and men, around the world are deprived of basic human rights. They are often excluded from social life and discriminated against. The United Nations documents, in particular all six human rights conventions, include persons with disabilities, but the Member States of the United Nations have soon learned that general anti-discrimination rules are insufficient for the effective and effective provision of equal opportunities for persons with disabilities. Special measures are often needed to effectively benefit persons with disabilities from the right to equal opportunities. Therefore, they have also begun to prepare a convention to ensure the protection and promotion of the human rights of persons with disabilities. In this regard, the European Parliament has also adopted a resolution calling on the Members of the United Nations to include at least eight sets of rights of persons with disabilities in the future into the Convention and to implement control mechanisms for the enforcement of such rights. The Madrid Declaration, which is the basic framework for disability policy, has made it clear that the principle of non-discrimination will only result in the actual social inclusion of persons with disabilities, together with positive measures. The proposal by the Group of Members to amend Article 14 of the Constitution is in line with the European Disability Policy, the so-called 1999 Amsterdam Treaty Anti-Discrimination Article, which includes the concept of disability, and allows the European Union to take active action and give initiatives to combat discrimination even in the event of disability. This article has made disabled persons more visible and visible in the European Union, as this article provides a legal basis for anti-discrimination rules in the European Union, while making disability increasingly comprehensive and fully integrated into the major general initiatives of the European Union. A number of European countries have followed a more intensive European policy, as they have included in the articles on equality before the law of their constitutions in addition to disability, including, as an example, Finland, Germany, Switzerland, Great Britain. This is to stress that they had before their eyes that it was not about regulating the rights of persons with disabilities, but about the application of the full civilisation principle of non-discrimination. In our Member Club we feel that it is also necessary to have this in Slovenia. Given that Slovenia, with good, positive measures of disability policy, including the adoption of a law on disability organisations, is comparable to the most developed European countries, it should also ensure satisfactory protection against discrimination, in particular because of its civilisational reputation. An additional reason to support the amendment of the Slovenian Constitution is the fact that the draft Treaty on the Constitution with Europe in part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, entitled Equality in a Article entitled Non-discrimination also prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability. What is identical to the proposal submitted to amend Article 14 of the Constitution. Given that the year 2003 is a year of disability, which reminds us that rights and non-discrimination are guaranteed at the declaration level, while the actual situation is still different, we believe that Slovenia should be equal to European constitutional trends and show once again that it truly supports equal opportunities for people with disabilities. Despite the concerns already expressed, which are also present in the Liberal Democracy Group, that it may not be necessary to change the Constitution and that the objective of the proposed amendment is fully attainable already through a proper interpretation of the current constitutional provisions, we have decided, for the most part, that the concept of disability should be defined separately in Article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Levich, a client of the young.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In all areas, the Slovenian State harmonises Slovenian legislation with European law and also with the Constitutional Treaty of the European Union. It would also be logical and understandable to follow this principle in the field of constitutional change. The new Constitutional Treaty of the European Union also states disability in two non-discriminatory articles, but this is not a fundamental reason why in the Party of Young Slovenia we support this proposal to amend the Constitution, i.e. mentioning disability in the non-discrimination article. Everywhere in the world and even in Slovenia, all disabled persons face discrimination in various areas during all life periods. Therefore, their groups need to be specifically protected, which is not possible only through sectoral legislation, which is well regulated in Slovenia. If a country with sectoral legislation is to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens, it must protect particularly vulnerable people from discrimination. This, however, can only provide the legal basis of the Constitution with a non-discriminatory article which, in our view, should also include disability as a reason for non-discrimination. In the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that the general non-discrimination clause in the Constitution is unfortunately not broad enough, as experience in the European Union also shows, as people with disabilities often need special measures in order to be able to participate equally in the exercise of equal opportunities. Such constitutional protection, which I believe is a basic civilisation standard, would also put us in the hands of the people with disabilities: Germany, Finland, Canada, United Kingdom. These are the countries we like to take for granted. For the sake of the constitutional article listed in the Young Slovenia Party, it seems necessary to change the constitutional article and so will we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u199	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Janez Drobnič, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. I will deliver my opinion on behalf of the Group of Members and at the same time. The current Constitution gives persons with disabilities in Article 52 of the legal basis for so-called positive discrimination, i.e. the legal basis for enabling persons with disabilities, due to their inherent or acquired abilities, to equality or sometimes to say the ultimate equality in society. So this is the constitutional basis for implementing all other legislation that allows the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities in society, work, employment, education and other areas of life. It is precisely because of this dilemma whether this proposal has been put in place that we have also considered in the Group of Members. The Constitutional Commission raised the question of whether the introduction of this term in Article 14 would be in fact contrary to what Article 52 provides. Article 52 refers to positive discrimination and Article 14 would introduce equality. So we'd let go of this positive discrimination. The question was legitimate, justified. Does this mean a reduction in those positions given to them in paragraph 52? Legal theorists were not entirely sure what that would mean. However, in view of the experience in other countries with the practice of putting this concept in place, it has only prevailed that such a provision would, of course, look good, but that it would not have any particularly serious effects. The effects will mainly be based on Article 52 if applied in practice. Article 14 is being complemented by any constitutional change, becoming more and more long than the yoke of the snake, and thus losing predictability and clarity. There was also an education in there. We can clearly say that this is unnecessary, based on education, people are employed under different conditions, so they are not exactly the same. However, this distinction is permissible. So some things like that could get a little out of the constitution. But we're not gonna do this right now, at least not on our proposal. Thus, the current article also provides, in essence, vaguely on the basis of analogy, equality before the law, because it says in the last part "or any other personal circumstance". And that's a personal circumstance. Because somehow the belief alone or this claim leaves us somewhat in doubt, we have decided in New Slovenia that we will not oppose this placement and we will support it. However, we are aware that ensuring equal opportunities is necessary in practice. We had the opportunity of law on the training and employment of persons with disabilities, or the law on the promotion of the employment of persons with disabilities, which we included in the procedure, Nova Slovenija proposed almost a year ago. The ruling coalition has refused to do so - to prepare a better marriage. So it's been almost a year, and there's no marriage. That is why we also have problems in other areas. In the case of calls for tenders, this privilege is misused for other purposes by those who rightly expect it, not by anyone who is able to do so. Finally, employment alone and only in disabled companies, which is currently taking place, is not a real thing. This means segregation and deviation from all those declarations, the direction of the European Union and the European Council, which says that the State must work on measures different from those that are employed in normal employment environments and that they also live in normal employment environments. Perhaps the only benefit of this will be the lobbyists who convinced us to put it in constitutional matter. To tell people with disabilities that they are good lobbyists, that they have a reputation and that they can trust them. But life will probably run on some other routes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u201	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Sasha Patche, he's gone. Mrs. Jerca Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear people! I strongly support the amendment in Article 14, because I am convinced that we are as rich and as valuable as we can help people who need our help. I have had the opportunity to go through many different institutions and schools, and I must say that man is shaken in a positive way, that our society has evolved over many years, in fact, or centuries of hard survival so high, that we can really say that we are calm and that we care for people who are needed for our help. Finally, I was in Hrastovec and I feel that the people who run this institution should propose recognitions that society should actually give them some kind of recognition because they know how to run this institution so well. There's something else. Here we must not forget development in advance, and this is not because of any mercy, but the development of humanity is fortunately so regulated that, as we know, the greatest physicist and philosopher, author of the book Short History of Time, in fact extremely difficult disabled, and we know how much each of us and each of society is worth and it is right to regulate our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u203	Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, my attitude towards persons with disabilities is certainly not aimed at mercy, but I am trying to establish, in the field of disability protection for this social group, such foundations on which they can be an equal and equal part of society and a partner, both in their communication to laws and to their neighbors. I am somewhat disturbed by the fact that we have always stressed in each amendment that this amendment is also justified by the opinion or approach of constitutional experts in this case. I say that these constitutional experts who wrote this original constitution have certainly been solid experts in this area, and I also accept the record of Article 14. Moreover, even those creators or drafters of the existing constitution have expressed in Article 52 their attitude towards persons with disabilities, and so in Article 52, even some kind of positive discrimination has been included, which I welcome, and regardless of whether we do not have in Article 14, that persons with disabilities are also equal before the law, the European Union and a number of European Member States, which also have this category in our Article 14, take Slovenian disability protection as a model and the attitude of Slovenian society to persons with disabilities as a model, and it is a shame to base here, however, that we do not have a relation to persons with disabilities and with disabilities, if we do not explicitly write in this neutral article, which is equally binding on the whole of society and public authorities, as it now stands, also on the field or on the issue of equality before the law for persons with disabilities. It is only a shame to say that, by doing so, we will have a neutral content or a neutral record of article 14, which, according to this property, expresses our dominance and our own, I would say that it is worth respecting what is the duty of the country that comes under Article 14 to implement in individual laws and also in laws to protect and establish the basis for equal treatment of persons with disabilities in this society. I am therefore pleased that we have also adopted in this mandate a number of laws which we are obliged to implement, to apply in practice, not to write something additional into the Constitution, which is already written down, but to implement what we are already obliged to do after the constitution. From this point of view, I may appear to be opposed to the amendment of Article 14, because I claim that the neutrality of the current Article 14 is very valuable, and I am afraid that we will in fact establish by incorporating one of the social groups, in the exposition referred to in Article 14, a kind of domino, which may be counterproductive to what Article 14 now provides. I will not object to this, to this inclusion of ultimately disabled persons as equivalent before the law, but I know that this has needlessly opened the content of the article that we are already implementing through Article 52 and through the entire relationship of our society to the disabled very positively. However, I do know that if we do so in the 50th article, that the serious question is what some so-called constitutional experts are doing when we open the fundamental postulates enshrined in the articles of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich. You're written. Then, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. That it is indeed known that in our Constitution the concept of disability is dealt with in the second paragraph of Article 50, which speaks of disability insurance, and in Article 52, which speaks of the rights of persons with disabilities. If we analyzed this, I would probably agree with Mr Brenčič in many ways, but a longer discussion would be needed to explain everything you said. I see this proposal to amend Article 14 of the Constitution, which is intended to include this notion of disability in an article that deals with equality or in an article that guarantees equal human rights and freedoms, as a reference to the unenviable position of persons with disabilities, as they are often excluded from social life, because the state of declared rights in practice does not guarantee as they wish and as we want it to be ensured. Additional measures are needed to effectively benefit persons with disabilities, such as disabled jobs, access to fenced environments, etc. The proposal also gives particular weight to the fact that certain European Constitutions and European Union documents explicitly prohibit discrimination against persons with disabilities. Disability is no longer a health problem, and disability is now being addressed within the framework of human rights. The second chapter of our Constitution is the consideration of human rights and fundamental freedoms, Article 14, in particular, and it is right for us to do so. It will also benefit from the accession of Slovenia to the European Union, as it adapts to the constitutional principles of the future Constitution of the European Union. I will support the proposal because it constitutes an enrichment of the current provision of Article 14 of the Constitution for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, he's not here. Mr. Jakich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u208	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support this proposal. The United Nations has six conventions that speak of human rights and, in fact, disabled persons are theoretically involved, but practical experience proves that this is not the case. It is therefore also an initiative for the United Nations or the Member States to engage in or prepare a convention to ensure the protection and promotion of the human rights of persons with disabilities. The relationship between society and people with disabilities has indeed changed in recent decades. If disability was sometimes understood primarily as an individual's health problem, today in most developed countries, of course, as in international associations, such as the United Nations, of which I have spoken, the Council of Europe, with all the recommendations of the Convention, and not least the European Union - today the word was about the Amsterdam Treaty and the Madrid Declaration. All these institutions deal with human rights. The disabled do not demand and really do, and here I agree with Mr Brenčič, they do not want mercy. Above all, they want freedom, dignity and equality. And all those who are or who will be seated again on a wheelchair on the world day, for example, stay on this wheelchair for more than three hours and try to use this wheelchair or try to reach or reach certain institutions that are important to you. Let me tell you that in Ljubljana, in the Ljubljana City Library, people with disabilities are not allowed to do so. Jim is, of course, through the client's door, but it's not dignified and dignified for them to "fall" through freight elevators and some side entrances. And I agree with those who say it is right that the right of persons with disabilities is already enshrined in Article 52 as positive discrimination. But in this 52nd article, of course, we are talking about providing protection and training for the work of persons with disabilities and, of course, we are talking about children with disabilities in physical and mental development and about the more severely affected persons who have the right - and it is right to have them - to education and training for active life in society. I therefore expect that, in Article 14, disability will also be enshrined as a right of equality before the law, encourage us legislators to continue this positive tradition, as discussed by Mr Brenčič, and that, of course, we will eliminate the discrimination that they receive, and to follow all the concerns that come from our disabled societies of the European Disability Forum, when they talk about concrete things; it is said that the accessibility to the accessibility of a fenced environment, the adaptation of jobs, etc. I agree here with Mr Tsukati that they are ghettoisation, or those who have talked about ghettoisation in special disabled companies, that this is wrong and that it will be right when we allow all persons with disabilities to have access to jobs. I thank you for allowing this Parliament, in this mandate, to allow people with disabilities, not through the back door, but through the main entrance, to come between us and tell us what is wrong with them. And that is why I will support - not because it is enshrined in the European Charter of Human Rights - not because it is enshrined in the future Constitution of the European Union, but because I think it is necessary and that we are a mature nation, that we can regulate it in our own way. This way has been positive so far, and I hope it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr. Peter Levich. Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would no longer discuss this amendment to Article 14, because you have already told my fellow Members, Mr Sašo Pece, and Mr Brenčič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u211	Thank you. Proposer? The government? I'm closing the debate. I do not see any particular interest in discussing this further - but: who else wants to discuss it? Mrs. Shirca? Please, a few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u212	I think that in this proposed amendment we are actually meeting with an understanding of the Constitution in a broader sense, not as narrow as the debate has been going on so far as we have understood the changes in the articles as the basis that led to the subsequent amendment of the subsequent legislation or as a precondition and assumption to regulate certain legal arrangements and building, the entire architecture of the management of the Republic of Slovenia. At the beginning of Article 14, I think we are meeting - we are certainly meeting - with greater breadth, we are meeting mainly with values or with civilisation categories. For the basis of this amendment to this article, if the article is confirmed - and as I see it, the amendment will be confirmed - then it should not have any direct legal consequences, because the legislation we are currently regulating in this area is in line not only with the European regime but also with the desired regulation. Let's leave it at practice. But this is a practice based on existing laws. I wanted to draw attention to only one aspect at this point, which we were actually warned about on our own in the Constitutional Commission. It is the opinion of the Association for the Theory and Culture of Handicap, which mentions that such constitutional change would in some way be harmful to their thinking because it would introduce discrimination. Just the kind of discrimination that we kind of define here to get rid of. In this context, the representatives of society themselves explained that in the developed world we encounter different concepts of disabled persons than categories, and in such an understanding this negative connotation, which comes to the fore, may still be eliminated. And I don't think that's such a minor explanation. At the same time, I would point to another aspect that triggers, we all know, such a delicate or so firm article 14 of the Constitution. There were no initiatives to define Article 14 more specifically in those "personal circumstances" of the dictatorship. And the question is, how will we react or react to others once they are faced with the question of the vulnerability of this article? There are initiatives that talk about the loose categories of so-called "personal circumstances" extending to the possibility of accurately defining sexual orientation, such as "not sexual orientation", and establishing positive discrimination, which requires a subsequent legal regime in the introduction of an understanding of equality of rights between the same sexes before the law. At that time, the discussion will certainly be less easy than it is this time, when there are no reservations to such arrangements as are proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u213	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, on the final item of the agenda. So I'm breaking this agenda. And I'm moving on to 10. Agenda item - DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF A PROCEDURE TO AMEND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE DRAFT ESTABLISHMENT LAW, EPA 391-III The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with first-signed Valentin Pohorce. Mr. Kebrich, who is not here right now, should have the word. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which also reported in writing to the assembly. We don't see a government representative who's spent one minute on this. We can go straight to the presentations on the positions of the groups. And first he has the word of Dr. Joseph Bernik, New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u214	Mr Vice-President, Mr Representative of the Government's Legislative Service, ladies and gentlemen! Here we have before us a very interesting amendment to the constitution to include the right to social security in article 50, which is also called the right to a pension. Because I'm a pensioner myself, and I'm very loyal to things that touch pensioners. I'd say there's two characteristics to us that you can't trace elsewhere. First of all, pensioners are well-politically represented because they have their own client, DeSUS. And secondly, a pensioner with us means being in some kind of profession. In any case, this proposal is interesting from another point of view, because I imagine, if it is adopted, then Members of the DeSUS Group somehow "cut the branch on which they sit". DeSUS will no longer be required because the constitution will do this for all of you. Well, the proponent, this is a real group of Members, wants to make it clear that the right to a pension is a constitutional right or that it is one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms. Retirement is a right from work and its own contribution to the pension fund. Thus, it belongs only to those who have paid it in order to ensure some kind of continuity of living standards. To all others, the country provides social security on the basis of solidarity and the right to a person of worth. On this issue, the main second sentence of Article 50 is the Constitution, which states: "The State is obliged to regulate and care for the operation of compulsory health, pension and disability insurance." Which means that the state cannot in any way terminate these insurances as long as we have such a constitutional provision. Of course, there is a question of what, if a country has to, it wants to reduce these rights. For example, if there are economic reasons for reducing rights, while the social charter says they need to be constantly increased. The position of the expert committee is that, in some cases, the deterioration of rights, the reduction of pensions, the tightening of the conditions in insurance systems are permissible, insofar as their objective is to maintain the system and to maintain the functioning of the system. The fundamental issue is the question of the legislative body and its freedom to change pension rights. But there are no real anchors here in the constitution to limit the legislative body. In administrative theory, we also know the principle of proportionality, which says that human constitutional rights can only be affected if this is absolutely necessary in order to achieve certain objectives. If, however, the objectives cannot be achieved in any other way and if not essential, so if proportionately, for example - it interferes with this right with the fundamental condition that this is a matter of public interest. The right to a pension in the Constitution alone will not have a significant impact on the position of an individual. The individual shall not be entitled to the application and may be affected by a Constitutional Court which shall determine the limits to the legislative authority to which it may intervene, to which it may reduce the pension, to which it may reduce the situation between the salary and the percentage by which the pension is replaced. As far as I know, this constitutional right is not available in most countries around the world. And it seems to me that this would also invite other stakeholders to try to obtain the additional rights guaranteed in the Constitution on the basis of contractual relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Lenko will present the DeSUS position.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representative of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members! At its 13th meeting, on 8.7.2003, the Constitutional Commission adopted a decision not to initiate a procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution. Article 50 of the Constitution provides for the right to social security or provides that the said right to social security is the constitutional duty of the State to regulate and care for the operation of compulsory pension and social security. Such arrangements implicitly include the right of employees and self-employed persons to a pension. We agree with the position of that section of the professional public, which considers that the inclusion of a pension in the Slovenian Constitution as a special right from a legal point of view would not bring any direct change to the legal situation of employees or pensioners, nor to the legal regulation of benefits under the laws, but in our view would have a significant psychological effect on the older population. The right to social security, as set out in Article 50 of the Constitution, creates problems, as the general public often interprets the concept of "social security" and "the right to social security" differently. With our proposal, we tried to provide a solution that would distinguish the right to a pension from the right to social security. Part of the professional public is not in favour of our proposal because it is convinced that the right to a pension has already been implicitly given in the existing 50th Article of the Constitution, but in our opinion this does not correspond to the nature of Article 50(2) of the Constitution. Indeed, in the second paragraph of Article 50, the founders felt the need for the State to explicitly define the right to health care in the 51st article of the Constitution, meaning that they would introduce an analogy here. In drawing up a proposal to introduce a procedure for amending Article 50 of the Constitution, we were therefore guided by that analogy by the creation of the right to health care, as provided for in Article 51 of the Constitution. By supplementing Article 50 of the Constitution, in which the subtitle would also explicitly state the right to a pension as a constitutional right, they would explicitly state that the pension is a constitutional category and, as such, is not left to the authorities of the State to freely change the right to a pension or to impose its limitations. When rejecting the amendment to Article 50, in our opinion, in addition to the so-called professional opinions, it is implicitly uncomfortable with the older part of the population. Indeed, the Constitution is in a phased stalemate about understanding the problem of the older population, for it expresses the spirit of the past era. Under the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union, the draft Treaty explicitly states in Article 25 the right of the elderly to live in dignity and independence and to participate in both social and cultural life. With our proposal, we have anticipated these more difficult because we wanted by introducing pensions in Article 50 of the Constitution to show explicitly that the older population, when it claims the right to a pension, is not the burden of society, but that right is its constitutional and legitimate requirement, which is in accordance with Article 25 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the draft Treaty of the Constitution for Europe. With our proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution, we wanted to complement this by making it quite clear that the right to social security constitutes a broader framework, while the right to a pension constitutes a benefit resulting from contributions from the past work. I therefore appeal that all members of the National Assembly confirm our efforts in the interest of more than half a million of our pensioners of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče, Slovenian National Party - no, Mr Barovic will present his position. Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. If we were to watch a movie or read a book that lasts from the preceding paragraph, we could write that any similarity is merely random. I'll explain why. I began to read the proposal to amend Article 50 with the last paragraph of the explanation, which says: "With the explicit introduction of the right to a pension, the applicant wishes to point out that this is based on the contribution made by the citizen from his income and that this is the right given to him on the basis of his past work." That's true, that's true. But in other words, I asked myself why. Why does this require, however, when we have everything in order in the whole process. People who go to work pay a variety of contributions, including a contribution to a safe life in their old age. This is the way many laws govern each other. And what - this is the question that logically arises with this in connection - then write it down in the constitution? What for? Because people began to fear that they would no longer receive pensions for such or other reasons. Why? The economic principle says that the normal minimum rule is that three workers pay a contribution for one pensioner. According to the statistics I know, it seems to me that - not to hold me for a word or two or three - in Slovenia just the opposite, when one worker works for three pensioners. This is not bad either, but it seems illogical to us as we continue to think about when the retirement age changes. So, pulls when they have to, or they will have to, or we will have to work many more and more years. The young remain unemployed, the money for the earned pensions, the contributions that people pay fairly, and suddenly they're gone, the pillars, one, two, three, four, five, I don't know how many will be left. Popular Europeans are emerging or Western methods of self-inclusion and payment of funds and money for personal concern in the third university of life are emerging; fears among older people arise as to how they will survive. It is sad, sad, that people must turn to changes in constitutional articles, which will eventually provide them with a minimum of survival. Many of us or you have, that there will be no misunderstandings, started paying social insurance, life insurance funds to various institutions, which, of course, for ten, fifteen years, are collecting money from all of us, so that we will have something after those fifteen, twenty years to survive. Of course, they're turning this money around, they're taking advantage of it -- whatever the situation is going to be, we don't know. So I go back to the beginning of my story, every similarity is just a coincidence. It is sad that in this country we have to put into the constitutional category the concern and desire of older people to receive what they have paid for their entire lives. I also ask myself honestly, over, I think 16 years - I calculated - should or could retire. What and where will I get it from? No matter how much we all pay all the time, we all pay for those who are already in retirement. I assess or the Slovenian National Party evaluates, as my respected colleague, Saša Peca, said earlier that this country should explicitly regulate this matter by law and by law. Unfortunately, the fear of the changes that are coming is obviously too great. Therefore, we will not oppose this proposal in the Slovenian National Party. However, I think that our words may and may be a warning that the treatment of all of us, of course, is unfair and unfair to all of us in certain areas. And we cannot now solve the economic problem that one worker in Slovenia has to work for three pensioners by changing the constitution. That's probably what we're gonna do now, or we're gonna do it. But we live a different and different life, different spheres. Are we going to change what is economic or otherwise not good into a constitution? I'd have thought of that. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I respect and feel this second paragraph of the explanation. We will not oppose this in the Slovenian National Party. Again, to everyone’s mind: Is this the right way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Not to allow himself to comment, but the data is clear, about 8:5 is the ratio between the active population and the pensioners. Mr Potrč, a presentation by the United Nations Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have proposed that the 50th Article of the Constitution be supplemented by the constitutional right to a pension in addition to social security, including many of them from the United List of Social Democrats. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports such a proposal. The pension is only an exceptional social right. As a rule, the pension is a work right and on the basis of the contributions paid under the pension scheme governed by the State, which must be based on intergenerational solidarity. Without taking these principles into account, the pension of the current generation could become increasingly questionable. And that's what these generations are afraid of. In addition to the Constitution, it is intended to ensure that the right to a pension as well, and thus the right to make pensioners part of the good and bad aspects of the development of society, an indisputable constitutional right. In the United List of Social Democrats, we will therefore support the proposal and address the possible weaknesses of the formulation itself in later stages of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. France Tsukjat, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. We are also here in terms of a change that will not mean anything special, it will not bring any great benefits to the pensioners, nor any burden on the state budget. Nothing will change, for in the very concept of "social security" the pension is already included. The first paragraph of the present article reads as follows: "The citizens have the right to social security under the conditions laid down by the law." And we're adding, "and pensions." Since the pension is part of social security, it would only make sense to write: "The citizens have the right to social security under the conditions laid down by law, including the right to a pension. That would make sense. This would even be suggested to me if the opening of a procedure were to be adopted. But there's another problem I'd like to point out right now. Indeed, the Nice Charter - you know it well, the European Charter of Nice - in article 34 says that the State must ensure not only the right to social security, but also social welfare, social assistance. But that's not in our constitution. And that would make sense. The right to social welfare means that when a person, for example, reacts to old age, the state not only brings him a pension if he does not have a pension from work, but social assistance, which we can call in any way, but also to ensure that a service takes care of him. Either at home or move him into a nursing home or whatever. I think that this right, which the European Charter of Nice points to, should, however, find its way into our constitution. Of course, the proponents didn't think of it. Perhaps this could be added further. I don't know how much listening would be to other parties. This is not how experience has been shown so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u223	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian People's Party will not be presented by Mr Brenčič, but by Mr Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the amendment to Article 50 of the Constitution, which is also supposed to define the right to a pension, can and cannot be of the most declaratory nature, but cannot be material at this level. This can only be regulated by law. Indeed, we believe, and so have experts from the expert group, most experts, that the proposal proposed is not the most appropriate and appropriate. Therefore, it would probably be more reasonable, as the predecessor said, to supplement the first paragraph of Article 50 by saying: "The citizens have, under the conditions laid down in the law, the right to social security, including pension." It is a fact, and we know that all European pension schemes face reforms. For demographic reasons, the extension of the pension, i.e. longer duration, higher costs, due to the reduction in the number of employees and the deterioration of this ratio. The difference between income and expenditure is increasing, mainly in the negative direction, to the level of expenditure. From this point of view, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it would be appropriate to consider the addition of Article 50 of the Constitution, and we will also support this proposal by a majority in the Group of Members, and, of course, we will continue to try to improve the text in the sense that we have also presented it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The position of the Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mr Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u226	This is one of those proposals that came about in the context of constitutional initiatives or initiatives to change the constitution by the government and also by the Group of Members. It is clear that there was insufficient justification and broad debate in this respect, that support was somehow shared on the Constitutional Commission and there was insufficient support. In the parliamentary group, we will in some way be following this further debate with understanding, and we will also try to provide at least some support for further options for discussion if, of course, this appropriate majority is reached in order to possibly achieve an amendment to Article 50 in further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u227	Thank you very much. The Youth Party's position, Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! In the Party of Youth of Slovenia, we assess the proposal to amend Article 50 of the Constitution as appropriate, particularly in order to ensure that, even in the highest national act, the Constitution, the foundation of intergenerational solidarity, the right to a pension for the current pensioners who have already worked for their pensions, as well as for all future generations who will gain this right through work. In the Constitution, a specific right to social security provides citizens with the right to social security under the conditions laid down by law, and that solution does not explicitly stress that citizens have the right to a pension based on the results of their contributions over the period, and that they have paid a partial contribution from their working relationship or income. It is very important that this is also enshrined in the Constitution in order to ensure that working citizens, in addition to existing legislation, are explicitly assured in the Constitution that they will obtain the pensions they deserve. We agree with the proposers that the amendment of the Constitution distinguishes the right to a pension from the right to social security, as regulated by the existing legislation governing pension insurance and provides social security in the form of a state pension for those who have not been in a working relationship. In the Young Slovenia Party, we estimate that this change in the Constitution in addition to the psychological impact will also be a strong basis for further legal regulation of pensions for the present, as well as for all future generations of pensioners now and in the future working citizens. It should be made clear, however, that the current, young and future generations, both demographic and the state of the cash institution for pension and disability insurance as well as one between the public registers, cannot, however, give rise to excessive optimism. We must be aware that the change in the Constitution itself will not solve these problems and that it is at the principle level primarily to highlight intergenerational solidarity, which must take place in both directions. The right to a pension stems from a contribution made by a citizen from his or her income. It is a contract between the State and an individual, which is also appropriate to be recorded in the Constitution. Therefore, we will also support the proposal for continuation of the procedure and possible completion of the proposal in the SMS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The debates between Members and Members are followed. First of all, Dr. Bernick. Mr. Lenko.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps only here would I define one quote, because one of the basic essential elements of why this article should be amended is that, as I pointed out earlier in my presentation of the Group's position, it is to separate social support from pension. In fact, a number of people are mixing it up today, and some are just trying to get it to social support. At the presentation of public opinions, where Dr. Bubnova, a professor of law, an expert on constitutional law on this social segment, was also acknowledged, she quoted - I quote here her debate - as "social security". Of course, this term "social security" differs from sociologists, economists, statisticians, "there are different definitions that run both professionally and publicly. And then she said, in that sense, social security is clear for lawyers, as I said, but not for laymen, for the general public. Therefore, it would probably be more appropriate from the legal certainty point of view for citizens that the text of the Constitution should be such that the person to whom it is intended, i.e. the population, understands it." I think that this profession also recognises that it would be right, and I also have a text here, with which the same constitutional lawyer stressed that this protection or separation of social support from pension in the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia was quite clearly defined, as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u231	The right to work has also been defined. Let's move on. Mr. Peche. Mrs. Jerca Mrzel.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u232	Respectable. Thank you very much. I will support the proposal under consideration. In fact, just as the former touches on the fundamental values of politics, it is justice, humanity and wisdom. It is important to be aware that people are ahead of us, and we have, in fact, been working without asking ourselves how this boat or net is paying and has actually gone part of the income all the time into this fund. That's what people say. They deserve their pension. It's one of the basics, I think. Moreover, these people have probably also created the foundation stone of our statehood, which we are talking about and who may now be afraid for their income. And so somehow I have to say that I have no doubt about the positive realization of this article. But I would like to mention only so much and warn of the beautiful Slovenian proverb, which says, "You father to the threshold, son of you over the threshold." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec, Mr Štemberger, Mr Ivan Kebrič.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. We could discuss this very widely and for a long time, but let us focus on the substance. If we asked public opinion today, in what or in whom they trust most, I firmly believe that a large percentage would be put on the line that people, citizens trust the Constitution. If you have a majority, you can change marriages with one option or another. The Constitution is very difficult. And as the speakers have said, if we change this 50th article, which I am deeply convinced that there are no reasons, as the speakers have said, that there is no objection. However, this is certainly a debate which, if we open this article, will be possible in future discussions professionally and from these points of view to complement it by obtaining such an article, which will make all citizens most satisfied. With regard to technological and other changes, including demographic changes, the ratio of the active population and pensioners, as well as the insured, is, of course, worse. But it's not our fault and it's not our older generation or our younger generation's fault. This is a technological development that replaces more modern machines with so much and so much labor, and that's why it's the ratio it is. Look, the point is - the speakers have also stressed and I also allow myself to stress it - is that the pension is not a social category. We have a lot of things written down in our marriage. Also, not all pensions are covered by the contributions paid. I would remind you of state pensions for which no contributions have been paid, but I have not heard any objection to the issue. Let us leave this to the fact that there is a flaw, that there is no social censorship, because everything can be improved and corrected. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that, for this proposal to amend this Article of the Constitution, which we hope to support today and that, as I said, we have improved it, there is no real reason to oppose it. The proposal for a European Constitution speaks in three articles about caring for the elderly. And I also allow myself to remind the forerunner, Dr Cuckati, that in the European Constitution, as it will be adopted, this concern for the older generation is increasingly at the forefront. And it will have to be in the state budgets - I myself have been in several forums and consultations - to find money or to book and plan money for these activities as well. For we expect more or less, perhaps not, but most will surely want to experience age and enjoy the fruits of their labor from the active age. Therefore, let us ensure this right, which will not have, I repeat, other consequences as an objection, since this is already ensured through Article 50, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 somewhere. We have also taken up disability legislation today, and I am sure that Article 14 will be opened and further improved in the debate, as we will also improve this. Therefore, I appeal to you, colleagues and colleagues, to think that you will one day be older and that you too will earn your work the pensions you would like to enjoy in peace and in satisfaction. For trust in a certain system, in the constitution that I have spoken of, in which citizens have the most confidence, will give every citizen the personal satisfaction that he will look with joy and optimism at his older years. Once again, I urge you to think about this and do not object to getting the majority that is necessary today, on the other hand, to open this article, which we will certainly continue to improve in order to cover as much of the benefits that citizens expect from us as they expect from the legislative body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Private Cheligoy. [[He doesn't want to.]] Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich? [[Not at all.]] Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u236	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. If I have somehow understood and also said that I will not oppose the inclusion of disability in Article 14, which establishes equality between citizens and citizens before the law, I will not support or vote against this proposal. Article 50 of the Constitution was also laid down in the same way as they understood the importance of the Constitution or the importance of the separation that the Constitution must offer to citizens and citizens in its neutral nature. In general, when we talk about the right to social security, the article, as it is written, is such that it is a great shame to change it and take away the autonomy it has and which makes it dominant. Look, why don't you write me a job right? We have freedom of work in Article 49. Why not write in the 50th Article the right to work on which we can earn a pension? Why don't we write down the right to pay for the job? Why don't we write a grant? It's like there's just no one looking for their space under the sun today. Now the 50th article is really enough to understand. And that the country is obliged by the law which is "lex specialis" for each area to ensure social security. No matter what the individual law appoints or what individual social security pasulate we write down, or we can call it a term. So all I know is that, as I understand the Constitution, entry for the completion of the first paragraph in terms of the right to social security is also a complete discourse on the purpose of this Article, by entering the pension. And that's why I can't support him. And I don't mind that, as far as I'm concerned, the state is not obliged to provide a pension. No, first of all, there is a need to earn a pension in accordance with positive legislation or to be saved for it, a country entering as a social correction where in life or under certain circumstances someone could not create it. So, I think that in order for the constitution to remain that "grundgesetz" or that fundamental law, it's bad to interfere with article 50. I will not support this change or vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u237	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the list of the panellists, the panellists, so that I am closing the debate unless there is anyone who would specifically like a word. Mr. Petty Officer, good, three minutes. Could you turn it off, Mr. Brenčič, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u238	Thank you so much for saying that. So much talk, so much gibberish, and I can also say the flattery I've encountered, as I've heard it now in this debate, I haven't been for a long time. With such an attack on the constitution, such proposals will really devalue the value of the constitution. This is not worthy of a democratic country, and this proposal also belongs to those who will not bring anything useful or, I am correcting, this proposal will cause even confusion. Why? The separation of pensions from social security is wrong, it falls within the framework, but let's leave the definitions, as you said. But the proposal is contrary to the principles of the general concept of social policy, and the state is helping those who are in trouble, which goes beyond the plains of this poverty, then the state enters. If there was a right to work in our country, then the right to a pension would follow. However, since this is not the case, unless, of course, we write that the right to a pension is also incriminating, then it is also not a social category, it is incriminating. Then we overturn all the principles of reciprocity. Then we flip all these principles so you can get something for the effort, for the payments to the insurance system, because someone else who won't pay anything will still get it, despite the fact that he's rich and he's got a lot of wealth and fixed income and he never had to get a job. That's what you include. Then what will those who have worked for 40 years be denied, and they will have the same pensions as those who have not worked. I understand the state pension was introduced. Because some of the categories worked, they had no regulated insurance. However, the condition is that they do not have any other income. This is the principle of the social state, and the principle that citizens are primarily concerned with their own social security. And only if it fails will the state enter. In this case, in fact, it is only a problem of solving the vague political legitimacy of investors, which, while at the declaration level, advocates for pensioners, is at the legislative level, but its operation in practice is different. Constitutional articles are sufficient to implement social policy, pensions, social security. If investors have such an understanding here, they may carry it out in the legislative procedure. However, when the legislative procedure comes, it is these investors who are acting contrary to ensuring the diligence and consistency of pensions. In Nova Slovenija, we are committed to ensuring the proper regulation of pensions and social security based on the principles of an intergenerational agreement, the sustainability of public finances and responsible economic policy management in Slovenia. For that part that is outside the reciprocity system, on the principle of solidarity, which is the most important basis for ensuring the social level of pensioners. That's why we don't need demagogies in the constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u239	Thank you. I now conclude the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate a procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, on the final item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And I'm moving on to 11. Agenda item - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE STARTING OF THE PROCEDURE FOR THE AMENDMENT OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA WITH THE DRAFT ESTABLISHMENT LAW - EPA 693-III The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 103 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Master Andrej Visiak. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, it is a fairly simple change, proposed in Article 103 of the Slovenian Constitution, which is a step towards better, I think, for the first time, clarity of the Constitution, and for the second time it is a political issue which, in my view, is useful and healthy in terms of the development of democracy in our country. On the Constitutional Commission, and also on the other hand, the opinion, including experts, was that when writing the Constitution it was meant and possibly unhappily written that the President of the Republic could be elected for a period of five years, but not more than twice in a row. It was therefore considered that a president could be elected for a maximum of ten years. Of course, today, when we read this sentence, it can be logical for each murutudi to be elected twice by this sentence for a period of five years and then by interruption for a third and a fourth time, perhaps a fifth time and so on. We are proposing that the deletion of the words 'twice consecutively' actually restricts the mandate of the President of the State to a maximum of twice, and I think that this is a step towards finally limiting the individual's individual power in this country and, of course, limiting the function and, consequently, the actions resulting from this function. We are convinced that this is a political issue and that there is also a reflection of irreplaceability and, of course, a question of political culture. In short, we are in the position that it is necessary to develop democracy in a young country such as Slovenia, to limit this function to a maximum of two mandates and, of course, to leave the election to other, possibly different ideas, possibly only at a symbolic level, because we are aware of all the powers and powers that the President of the country has in our country in terms of regulation, the political arrangements that we have. We therefore support the slow transition from some tradition that we may be accustomed to also from history, the tradition of dragging individuals through the entire period of life even some in our history and of course giving some dynamics, some also new energy in terms of running the country. However, I think that, last but not least, we could consider the other positions, not least in local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which also informed the assembly in writing. The government representative has one minute. He's not here. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. Magus first. Smaller in the name of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In short, the opinion of the Group on the amendment of Article 103 of the Constitution, which refers to the mandate of the President of the Republic. Of course, we support the fact that the very grammatical interpretation of the provision truly allows for the multiple election of the same candidate, that is more than twice, that was clearly said by the experts. However, the multiple election of the same person is not acceptable in a democratic system, and this initiative has also been launched. This initiative is also intended to define or place the text more clearly in constitutional material itself, so that there is no conflict or conflict in the interpretation of constitutional articles. The expert committee has found that it allows a person such a dictatorship to run for the next third, fourth, term of office, etc. This is the issue that arose in the debate, and therefore all the reasons for this lack of clarity in the constitutional matter. It is not clear whether a period of one full five-year term or a shorter period should be followed before the third term is elected. That too was a dilemma to explain. Limiting the number of mandates to two, I think it is quite comparable to the democratic, that is, the standards of other countries. A simple solution is to simply delete the word in sequence and we have a more clear constitutional text. We therefore support the amendment of this 103rd Article of the Constitution in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Lenko will present the DeSUS position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Republic of Slovenia has in its constitutional order a very democratic way of electing the President of the State. This is also proved by the last elections. Article 103 of the Constitution provides that the President of the Republic may be elected in the same person no more than twice in a row. It is clear from this text that there is no explicit prohibition for a person who has already been elected twice as President of the State not to run for office and to be elected in a later term. Such a free regime seems appropriate to us in the democratic party of pensioners and is not disputed, so we believe that there is no need for change in this area. We will not support the proposed solutions or the constitutional changes brought by this proposal. We love the President of the Republic directly in secret elections, so it is up to citizens to choose him directly. All political parties and other citizens, with the support of voters, have the opportunity to propose their candidates and there is sufficient time and political space in the pre-election campaign for a thorough assessment of whom to trust their voice. The President of the State, who has already held this post and is re-electing the President, will be elected only if, in the current term, he has been a good president if he has met the expectations and trust of the voters who have given him their vote in the last elections and other citizens who are being urged by his programme to re-elect. If a person who has been elected twice as President of the Republic has met all the voters' expectations in the second term, he shall remain after leaving his post in good memory with the citizens. So why should such a person not run and be elected for his third term? In any event, such a person will be re-exposed to the pre-election process, dialogue with voters, dialogue between political parties and, last but not least, a secret vote in the elections. Only voters, i.e. citizens and citizens, are the ones who will decide to re-elect. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners is convinced that the current constitutional arrangements are good, so we will not support the proposed solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u245	The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u246	Your Honors are here! We also share in the national party, in the parliamentary group, the Slovenian National Party the opinion of the DeSUS Parliamentary Group, that elections should remain elections, that people should decide who they want in which situations. And we estimate that the existing 103rd Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is of course sufficient guarantee, both in the form of democracy and in the form of an attempt to prevent democracy, followed by our assessment by the proposer. According to our assessment, the 103rd Article of the existing Constitution is clear enough or its doctrine is clear enough and comprehensible enough to remain in the future. Once again, the national party's wish has always been that elections remain elections. And just as a national party has never allowed itself to challenge elections, even if people were wrong, it will not be in the future. In the Slovenian National Party we assess and correctly, we believe that people have the first and last word in their beloved functions, both in the Member States and in the other state officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by the mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Perhaps in addition to the proposal I have already presented, I would only say that, of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support these changes, because it is not true that we would doubt with this proposal that we do not have the democratic path to elect the President of the country. We have a two-way majority system, which I think is the most democratic way to elect a President and to do so in the future. We think only that the same person should perform this function no more than twice and especially because we think it is useful and think it is healthy for the development of democracy and the development of diversity in our country. That's why we're proposing this. But we also propose for another reason, and we support this, because we are somehow clarifying and cleaning up this confusion and confusion about interpreting this doctrine, because also on the Constitutional Commission and also experts have somehow felt that when the constitution was written, it was probably meant to be a two-time term and nothing more, despite the interruption. Now, of course, to interpret this differently, and for reasons of clarity, we propose deleting this word and, of course, because we think it is good, we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u249	Thank you. Position of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u250	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for a constitutional amendment by Comrade Visiak concerning the regulation of the mandate of the President of the Republic opens up and highlights very relevant concerns. Rather, the current regime provides that the President of the Republic may be loved more than once, with the restriction that he may be loved no more than twice in a row. The proposal foresees that the President may be loved no more than twice. We are of the opinion that such a restriction can rightly be justified by the danger of excessive reinforcement of the President's power. In the section's partial report, among other things, it was possible to read that, to quote the rapporteur of the group, it was the constitutional lawyers who felt that limiting the number of mandates of individual government functions was increasingly present than the issue of democratic trends in power limitation. In our constitutional system we can even find a limitation of the function of a constitutional judge to a nine-year term. In the study of this topic and in the debate on this topic, there is often an assumption that the expert group has confirmed as correct. In order for the same person to be elected for a third term without amending the Constitution or the corresponding authentic interpretations, it is possible to select the same person for the third term of office after a shorter period after the second term of office. Not even after the full term. With this explanation, the Section has narrowed down the arguments of the opponents of the proposal, which are based on the assumption that the risk of reinforcement of power is already impeding an interim mandate. In the light of this, too, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that Article 103 is necessary in a way that will not allow for different interpretations. We advocate a proposed solution to the limitation of the mandate of the President of the Republic. We will support the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 103 of the Constitution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u251	The position of liberal democracy, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u252	Your Honor! It is a feeling that this proposal for changes to the Constitution has emerged somehow from current experience and from some fear of repeating the past. However, I do not think that it is necessary to assess this provision of the Constitution, namely Article 103, from this point of view, in view of the experience of the past and perhaps another living memory, when the mandates to disability were repeated, as we have already heard in today's debate. We believe that the democratic tradition in Slovenia is strengthening that all the conditions for making the future country of Slovenia comparable in all respects are created, including in this area. And given the constitutionally defined powers of the President of the Republic, we believe that this is not the point at which constitutional changes should be stopped for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u253	Thank you very much. The position of the Youth Party will be presented by Mr Peter Levič. He won't. The debates between Members and Members are followed. Now let's see. Peterle, Mr. Pece, Mr. Janša, and Kangler. Wait a minute. I'll go get the list. Mr. Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Something technical first. We have, as far as I can tell, seven minutes reported, and we're counting down from five. Is this fixed now? It's not. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] Well, it's a little obvious, a few things. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u255	You have the floor, and then we'll sort things out somehow.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u256	Oh, you will. All right, all right. Thank you! [[...]] [[A voice in the background.]] There's a problem. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u257	It won't take long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u258	I can talk. Thank you. So, personally, I'm deeply convinced that the arguments that say it's a mistake, that someone else thought something else and wrote something else, of course they don't. The Constitution at the time, or what we have, was written, of course, by very serious constitutional experts, the best that this country has ever won. And of course written down and Slovenian politics, at the time it accepted it. And now talk about someone else thinking about something as simple as writing it in sequence, because it's very clear what it means in sequence. It means one thing at a time and nothing but that. So, for this to be some kind of mistake that needs to be corrected, of course, it's not. And just because it's not a mistake, it's a clear political issue. Or twice in a row, or twice in a row, and then again. That's the basic question. Of course, because this is the case, I personally think that the only real correction of this and the answer to it are the voters and the will of voters in the most democratic secret elections, such as the elections for the President of the State. And let those voters, for God's sake, decide who they want to be president. We're always trying to impose something on these voters. Once we force them to do this, the second time we correct them, the third time we impose them, you can choose them, you can't vote for them. Today and yesterday we talked about how many times people's will, referendum decisions and so on. But as soon as there is another opportunity, because we have some other interests, some other desires that are legitimate, completely, far from being suddenly changed, let some of this will of people wait, but first let us know how it will be, and then let them decide. That is why, of course, I will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u259	Thank you. Mr. Levich? No, no, no. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be in touch. I think there is a need to support this amendment for several reasons. One is for the political hygiene of all people, including politicians. It is said that we are comparable to other democratic countries across Europe and so on. I just want to see how truly comparable we are when we look at today's and yesterday's debates when we try to take the rights of Members and so on. First, it was the rules of procedure, now it's the constitution, and I don't know what else will come. And it seems to me that, after all, we just have to imitate some countries that have limitations, and in particular, this applies to those who are in transition. So far, we have considered that we can get a good president if we give him a numbered mandate. However, that is not true, because we are not speaking or will not talk about a President, but this has already happened to us that the President of the Presidency has then become President twice more. Of course, you'll say that's what people wanted. I recommend you, however, if you think that when we vote on this amendment, that it is incorrect and that people be dissatisfied, you always have a referendum at your disposal that may require that the constitution be changed and that a president be elected for life or whatever. In some truly democratic countries, there are limits, and this now extends to some other countries, that the mandate of the President is twice and nothing more. This principle is now being taken into account in the United States for other important functions in the country at various levels of the federal system. Therefore, it seems to me that it is absolutely unnecessary for us to mourn that someone cannot be president three times, repeatedly or forever, because people will sooner or later get used to the tendency of changing people in the political system and that they will not be harmed in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič is not here. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u262	The proposed amendment assumes that in the Republic of Slovenia we would have the same president of the country for a maximum of ten years, it is said, twice in five years, as opposed to now, if, for example, for a certain period of time between one and the other term "past". In other words, the proposal limits the duration of the President of the State, and it is not insignificant that the initiative came just before the presidential elections when it was possible for anyone to fear that conditions might be created when the President could run again. The applicants based the deletion of the word "in turn" on the advantages that arise from the fluctuation at the highest place in the country. Self-change, exchange, exchange, all of these concepts are contrary to the notion of stability, perseverance and continuity. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I think I have two minutes left. Somewhere in the subconscious there was continuity, there was fear of it, probably the main motive for the proposed change of constitution - so that no absolutism or strong identification of people with one person would happen to the Slovenes. The applicants refer to the ambiguity and impreciseness of the present Article 103, which may even be subject to abuse, since the President can theoretically, by one day of interruption, provide himself with a seemingly permanent mandate. Interestingly, co-thinkers in the public debate called this a reflection of irreplaceability, which is also characteristic of the South American republics and countries of the former Yugoslavia. That we already have too much clienteleism, they said, and that therefore the elites should change; and that a rational approach to taxpayers' money requires the exchange of people in representative places in the country. It is unclear what money has with its mandate, but it is clear that they have been advocates of change without any clever or professional arguments. In the background, there was actually only one argument, which is - and it has never been said out loud. This applies only to the President of the State, who may have no problems with the re-election of his term of office. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u263	I don't have to. Mrs. Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I believe that the provision of Article 103 of the Constitution, which provides that the President may be elected no more than twice in a row, that it is unclear and that it is necessary to amend and specify so that the citizen of Slovenia can be elected as President of the Republic no more than twice in his life. In fact, I think that there is nothing wrong with the proposal, as it does not lead to a reflection towards the expansion of the circle of participants, which would be positive and desirable in terms of the application of democracy, not just in the President's mandate. After the highest position, citizens and citizens would be affected, knowing that they have a maximum of two mandates at their disposal, since the limitation of mandates is intended to reduce the strengthening of power in individual functions. However, the comparability of the proposed solution with other democratic countries leads us to such a solution, so I believe that the provisions must be clear and without doubt and I propose a change to the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I myself will support the proposaler in order to make it clear and clear in the constitution what is allowed and what is unacceptable by means of such or other machinations. It is true, as it has been said today, that even on the day of the interruption, of course, one could be on that function until death or several times after ten years. Someone said it wasn't about the taxpayer's money. It's connected, isn't it? If you don't have the money, you can't be elected. Not for a Member or for any other function, except for the President of the State. Each election costs, but for some it costs to provide funds in accordance with the law, and some of them, of course, can afford it over the edge and, of course, with corrupt purposes. We have also talked about these matters, and also because of this address, including damage to social property, it is good that it is written in the Constitution so that it is clear that it can only be repeated twice and that it can no longer be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u267	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kelemina. [[No, no, ……]] I'm also asking the proposer if he wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] Neither does the government. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. Now I'm asking, who else wants a word because we still have some time? Mr. Janša, Mr. Peterle. Please, Mr. Janša. Just two.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u268	The trend in the world, in all countries, especially the countries of parliamentary democracy, is to try to limit power in some way. What fundamentally separates democracy from monarchy is two things. The first thing is the election, and the second thing is the limitation of mandates. If these two things were not to exist, between democracy, or between the Republic and the monarchy, there would be no difference. Countries that had unlimited mandates or where the possibility of repeating individual functions was unlimited and, of course, democratic for a long time, like Slovenia, have mainly introduced all this restriction. Among other things, the United States of America, which has a presidential system. It was one of the first constitutional changes. A well - known British theorist finds that someone who has long been in power, by controlling instruments of power for a long time, gains so much influence that the election game becomes uneven. This is a key reason why the number of possible renewals of the mandate is practically limited everywhere. The same theorist also notes that someone who has been in power for a long time is slowly beginning to think that he is irreplaceable. He gets the so-called monarchic collapse and then proposes various things that seem at first sight democratic, of course, to people in decision-making, to extend their mandate. Historically, there have been cases where people who have been democratically elected have then proposed referendums on how to secure permanent mandates, or who have proposed changes to the Constitution and many of these changes are people, as Mr Kremjar said earlier, this is also confirmed in elections. Because at that time, they thought it was people who were irreplaceable. Because you didn't know how to represent others in these functions, because they didn't see them either. Generations grew up with the same people at the top. But then, when people democratically changed or extended their constitutions or mandates, they suddenly found that they had dictators who could not get rid of them. That is why, in my opinion, this debate on whether Slovenia needs a limitation of mandates or not, the debate that has been held in most other democratic countries centuries ago or decades ago, and we are here discussing some prehistoric dilemmas of democracy. It's very strange to hear that, I must say. When we proposed this amendment, or this more technical amendment to the constitution, we did not imagine that this would come upon such resistance, but that we would all simply be able to do so. Many people told me that they thought it was already in the constitution. Now I see that this is suddenly a very difficult dilemma, and I cannot help but see that this is also the case for the monarchy of those who have been in power for a long time.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am speaking only to make it publicly clear what position I have in person, so that no one would say that Lois Peterle has no relation to this proposal. I myself support all these grounds for restricting power to the highest place, with repeated repetitions of mandates. I also thought that the diction was such that it did not allow for a different explanation than that in fact they could only be two mandates, but there are obviously different interpretations and different practices. I would not like to be bound by the name on which such a proposal has also been made. However, I believe that supporting this proposal would be part of normalising democratisation and also completing our transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u271	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal for a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes, on the basis of the last item of the agenda. I'm breaking this agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, it's 6:30. If we look at our agenda, we have two more points, 12 and 13, which means about two and a half hours after the announced time, but so far we've finished all the points before because - well, if someone is gone, they're gone. So I propose that you take into account this dynamic and the notification that was given at the outset, that we vote on what we are discussing today, 15 minutes after the last point. So I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to warn their colleagues that we will not vote at 10 p.m., but long ago, I can give it at 9 p.m. - I don't know, now it's hard to say - 15 minutes after the end of the last point. Does anyone object to my doing so? Thank you. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the draft constitutional law - EPA 394-III. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 43 of the Constitution by drafting a constitutional law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Petr Lević. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for a further explanation of the proposal, which is expected to take five minutes. Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will briefly reiterate why we have tabled a proposal to amend the constitution in the work which sets the age for participation in the elections. The fact is, young protagonists in our society contribute greatly to society. They are so-called tomorrow's adults, but with certain limitations today's citizens. Many young people work to preserve society in such a way that their contribution is not purely biological. They also contribute to the preservation of social organisation and the transfer of cultural heritage. If society wants to preserve all these values from the past and transfer them to future generations, it must maintain interest and invest in future generations. Lack of participation in social activities can make young people even more vulnerable and, of course, excluded from society. The company has passed on a number of burdens to young generations, especially the heavy debt of environmental destruction and pollution and a series of conflicts. If we are talking about the responsibilities and rights of young people, we should also consider the possibility of their participation in society. Democracy needs new, young people. At a time when sovereignty is given to an increasing number of people, we must take citizenship in its true sense, our country should allow more young voters who are more interested in long-term important issues to decide on them. One successful method for achieving this goal is also the reduction of age for general voting rights in elections. This method can be successful, as by participating in elections and making decisions on education, employment, quality of life, the environment, cultural life become the main innovators of some social changes, and these are growing and growing. The basic proposal did not run into much support, so we have proposed a change on the Constitutional Commission, saying that solutions that still achieve a pre-reasoned purpose, that is to say, achieve a more democratic society but less radically interfere with the current regime. We have proposed that the proposal should be amended in three ways. In order to distinguish between active and passive electoral rights, in the direction of the proposal that the age limit for obtaining electoral rights should be reduced from 18 years to 16 years of age and in the direction of lowering the age limit for obtaining electoral rights at local elections. Above all, the last thing we think about in all the changes is still necessary and important. The fact is that many in Europe are under 18 years of age already participating equally in local elections, and again Slovenia is late, or you may think that 17-year-olds in Slovenia are less mature and capable than their peers in Germany and Austria, that is to say in some of its federal countries. In Austria, too, age has been reduced in local elections, and the results have been shown in recent elections. So we already have comparable systems and also recommendations, for example, of the Council of Europe on this issue. Therefore, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the proposal needs to be retained in the process of further examination and that all aspects of the issue of youth growth and life maturation should be examined by hand, and also on the basis of the expected trends in the world, at least one of these three directions will ensure its completion. I call on you to support this proposal, which undoubtedly extends the rights and contributes to a greater democratic society. The voice 'yes' means a voice for a better future, which also is the voice of the younger population. This must assume responsibility for the common future as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was addressed by the Constitutional Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The word has a government representative, one minute. No, no, no. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First of all, Mrs. Maja Zupan, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. Respect! Article 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia defines the age of 18 as a condition for obtaining the right to vote and to be loved. The proposed amendment to the Constitution seeks to reduce the age limit from eighteen to sixteen years in order to achieve the general electoral right, which is the right of every citizen to vote. The age requirement for the achievement of electoral law generally refers to the age of majority in which the legal order allows a person to enter into legal transactions. In the exercise of democracy, he is expected to participate in the widest possible circle of people. Therefore, by reducing the age limit, they could cover a wide range of young people who are vulnerable and excluded, thereby increasing their interest in public activities and the general good. It is true that the age line in various countries is quite different and that today’s youth is more open and mature than the previous generations. However, reducing the age condition for young people would impose new rights and, of course, new responsibilities. Or is that good in terms of psychology, sociology, anthropology of young people, and that's another question. The professional aspects of the issue of the growth and life-forming of young people and trends in the world are too small for us. When do young people grow up? Research by the Social Psychology Centre of the Faculty of Social Sciences also addressed young people the question of when young people expect what will happen to them as a point of transition to adulthood. These are events that reduce parental dependence, increase personal autonomy and are linked to taking specific responsibilities, such as making decisions about your appearance, creating your own family, and could also add to the right to vote. Researchers even talk about prolonged youth as a special period on the way to adulthood. Social transitions take place in an increasingly wide period of time. On average, young people are expected to take part in regular employment for the first time after 22 years, which is also consistent with the expected average age at the end of school. The question remains: How can age strike an appropriate balance between the age set for obtaining general electoral rights and working age when a citizen acquires full employment status? Are young people, despite their physical maturity and greater information, also socially mature and independent at 16 years of age? However, this is not only about lowering the age limit for the acquisition of electoral rights, but this decision would also affect the definition of age, which is a condition for the attainment of age and the delicate job or business abilities of individuals. All the research in this area is insufficient, so further analysis would be needed, which would also indicate possible weaknesses. Therefore, the underthinking change of the Constitution, in our view, is not good and wise and we do not support it. In doing so, we must not overlook that the level of young people's interest in political issues and the level of political culture that has been achieved in us is not always the most enviable level, which could only make the reduction of the age limit worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Celigoj will present the position of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u276	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members! On the basis of the legislation currently in force, there is a general electoral right, the right of every citizen to vote. According to the concept of general electoral rights, those who cannot vote because of their youth or their mental illness are generally excluded or temporarily restricted in the exercise of electoral rights. According to the Constitution, he has the right to vote and to be loved by a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has reached the age of 18 on the day of the vote. The proposal made by the youngest parliamentary party, the Young Slovenia Party, seeks to reduce the age limit for obtaining electoral rights by constitutional provision from the age of 18 to 16 years, without distinction between active and passive electoral rights. Inadequateness of the proposal as a result of possible verification of such provisions would allow for the election of a minor for very responsible functions [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u277	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u278	Even for the President of the Republic. [[...]] We can therefore note that the reduction of the age limit to 16 years would have extensive consequences, the real consequences of which have not yet been studied. However, the issue of civil and criminal liability, or acquisition of business, procedural and delicate skills, is being raised with the possible reduction of the age limit. We agree with the expert group's opinion that before the institutionalisation of this idea it is necessary to familiarise ourselves with the findings of science which address the people of this age group. From time to time, younger citizens have enjoyed our position, and elsewhere, a special situation and a special treatment, which is also linked to the fact that a person at this age cannot yet have a clear picture of the values on which he feels that he has a right to judge his actions. It would be difficult for such a person to take full responsibility for political decisions. This certainly does not mean underestimating the ability and intellectual maturity of this group of people, on the contrary. They're responsible for a lot of things that older people sometimes miss. We just want to stress the unjustified expectation of knowledge of the entire system of rules and obligations during an age period where interests are often focused on other things. In the DeSUS Group, we agree that lowering the age limit from 18 to 16 years would have many consequences in legal and social life. Because we do not really know where any possible constitutional change would go, and because of the above-mentioned proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the 43rd Constitution, we cannot support the DeSUS Group. We agree, however, that this part of the population must be ensured free collection and integration at other levels so that they can express and protect their interests in a different way. It is necessary to listen to the opinion expressed by young people on matters that they are dealing with in accordance with their maturity and age and should not be allowed to hear their ideas, visions and problems. We believe, however, that the interests of young people under the age of 18 should be shaped and expressed at other levels of social decision-making. We believe that there is still much to be done in developing the participation of young people in schools. Authorities should be encouraged, for example, as a body for young people, where the opportunity for dialogue with representatives of the same generation is to communicate their visions to someone who can directly or indirectly represent these interests. It is also necessary to encourage the development of societies for young people and, last but not least, to take into account the recommendations of the Council of Europe and to consider participating and lowering the age limit in the participation of young people under 18 in local elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u279	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues! For the first time in these three years, I am in this place, when I represent the position, but I am in a plural and democratic party where our opinions on this point are different. So let me tell you my vision, the vision of my colleagues, and all of this will have to be our position, just as our colleagues have said a little earlier that in this case the decision will be the decision of each individual. I will start again, but I do not want to repeat myself with a sentence that is common in cinematography or in literature - any similarity is just random. Many of the links between the talks, between the content that we discussed earlier, and this content, the amendment to Article 43, I see. First of all, I asked myself again, from some unknown line in the explanations and text, why judge after years. Who he is and who is not able to say yes to elections or no to elections. I'll be honest. I know a lot of 16-year-olds, whose judgment and judgment is, but without offense again, much bigger than judgment and judgment, I don't know, I'll say I won't insult anyone, my generation. We're always looking for a course to follow. Always. Once we'd be in Europe, once we'd be in America, and the third time we'd be doing it, I don't know who else. Young people are those who are associated with the previous point, who want education, who want knowledge, who want work, who want to participate in the creativity of Slovenian society and the country, but do not have the opportunity of education all because of the social situation, they do not have the opportunity to work because of various things, even because of the increase in years, they have no opportunity to be creative. Young people are an integral part of this society, young people live in this society and young people know what politics is, and young people know what is going on in this national assembly. I speak somewhat in person - young people are also mature at sixteen to decide who will represent them, how he will represent them, why he will represent them, and how he will represent them. The young co-create our society tomorrow, our education. When we talk about individual elements, I will remind respected colleagues on the right-hand side, we know the story of this, the school's believer: yes or no. We never ask ourselves whether we should be old or understanding. Okay, I'm not going to get involved in things I don't know, but limiting the ability of young people to participate in elections, to be loved is not real. In the Slovenian National Party, colleagues who think a little differently than I do ask the following questions and I am obliged to say them on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. What, though, will be the consequences — this is true — if we accept the amendment to Article 43? Does this mean that the age limit is also reduced in the conduct of the driving test, in the involvement of the Slovenian professional army, and many such questions could be asked. Fair enough, it's true. What does such a change in the constitution mean? That's why I'm talking about it. Every similarity is just random. Each addition to the Constitution means great responsibility, great, great responsibility. However, I personally assess that to limit decisions, wills, the desire of young people who can work at the age of fifteen, to go to work, but should not decide who should - I mean - give them a future, an opportunity with sixteen not - I don't know if these are appropriate comparisons, but still. In the Slovenian National Party, each of the four members of the Slovenian National Party will decide on their own conscience. However, I hope that we will all think together about the issues that we have raised. Young people live their creative and active lives. We must not judge people by what an individual is. Many young people know what is going on in this national assembly, many young people know what is going on in the European Union, many young people know what is going on in the world, and many young people are judgmental. My personal judgment as a member of the Slovenian National Party will be to say yes. The rest of our colleagues will decide for themselves. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, as this article will be difficult to decide on, will be difficult to decide on. But questions remain open. But let us trust the young! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u281	Thank you. Also the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u282	Thank you for your word. Any thinking creature that encounters a problem deals with ways and processes to overcome this problem and in social matters, and any minor problem is part of the social problem or as an individual in the part of society, including the solution of social problems, to the solution of its problems. The admission of young people to political decision-making is therefore a positive step and by our sign of the progress of society. It is also a signal to political parties that, as a result of the increase of the electoral body in the direction of young voters and voters, it should also place greater emphasis on the young generation by creating new opportunities and opportunities for young people in their programmes. This benefits society as a whole, as young adults and as such protagonists of tomorrow’s society are of benefit. I would also like to say that the reduction in electoral law does not necessarily coincide with the reduction in the age limit for obtaining full business capacity. We need to understand the purpose behind each of these two legal institutes. Voting rights allow for equal participation in decision-making in social matters in a direct or indirect way, while the ability to do business is determined for the protection against reckless acts of those who may, due to their business inexperience, take decisions that would later prove to be their property or other damage, or undertake obligations whose long-terms they would not be aware of. However, we feel that in terms of what social problems are, young people know and know how to think and are certainly capable of doing so. We propose that we proceed with the process and later, by compromise, find the path that will allow for political and social participation to the greatest possible part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u283	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Lois Peterle has the floor first. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sasha Patch? [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Shirca?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u284	Thank you very much. This amendment would certainly require a much less easy approach than it has been taken, for it raises a question that has broad dimensions and which should include both psychological, anthropological, sociological and other sciences. For the argument given to justify this change was quite weak and, as has already been said, easy. In this respect, it has resulted to a great extent - and many have understood it as well and many still understand it today - as an opportunity to find a wider electoral backhold or body that is either interesting to the Young Party or to any other party, either for the upcoming or desired election potential. However, if we leave aside the high potential of new votes, even though various surveys have confirmed that the involvement of the issue, decision-making and confidence in politics is not the highest priority interest of young people - remember these surveys - it is still worth looking at the profile of today's 16-year-old or 17-year-old man who is supposed to be a potential voter. Undoubtedly, the maturity rate of a young person is decreasing significantly. He has more information, more responsibility, more knowledge. Undoubtedly, it is also true that the forced responsibility imposed by the electoral right would bring perhaps more manipulative pressure on young people.If I paraphrase, if we now have a reduced possibility of obtaining a driver's license at 16 years of age and being accompanied by two years of assistance, then I can assume that this "assistant" could also happen in the narration, of course, in the elections - in a translated sense of course. It is true, however, that we treat young people quite paternally and, on the one hand, we force them to make very key, essential life decisions during this period, from schooling, from controls, from value-taking, and from what, on the other hand, we do not actively participate in decision-making or include them in these decision-making stages. For if justice were given to them, responsibility would also be given to them - without a doubt, but also forcing those who are more bound to respond to the world around them. It is interesting that consideration took place only at this level when limiting down, perhaps also at the upper limit level. In reviewing the referendum initiatives that took place in Switzerland and Denmark, I can see that in 1991 Switzerland reduced the right to vote from 21 to 18. Denmark fell from 23 to 21 years in 1961, 10 years later, according to 1971, fell from 21 to 20 years, seven years later, in 1978, and decided at the referendum to reduce the age from 20 to 18. And in 1978, she stopped. Which means there is still some consensus when this leaping world didn't do much and decided to involve itself in the electoral body. This is said, on the one hand and on the other hand, as it would have formed, as it would have done then, it remained constant, and I suppose it will remain in our legislation in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Stemberger. Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. I welcome all my colleagues, my colleagues and then my colleagues. Today’s young people are more informed each year because they have the whole world on their hands after a few minutes on the Internet. It is said that they can also be conquered with better knowledge than a generation before them, and thank God that is so. This does not mean that they are politically more mature than the generations before them. In fact, it's about maturity. I am deeply convinced that greater maturity is by no means lacking from previous generations due to living conditions. The previous generations are, you don't want to see if they wanted to get to the bread, take care of themselves, without much help from parents who didn't even know what it was, where the school was, how the boy or the girl was directed to go on living. Thus, the situation forced them to take an interest in themselves and to learn about such or other problems that were on the way. More! Today's youth, unlike before, without me now moaning about how terribly difficult it was for me or something. I'm proud of my life, which I put through, and I'm not sorry. And I don't think I've actually missed anything. But the current generation of young people is a more paved path than it was, and with this concern is less. So, at least in my youth. As a result, there is no difference in this or even less, so that we now have an advantage, if any, they are more mature for these or other reasons. I don't think that's true. And I also think that the environment that the older generations had was more unfriendly than it is now. I'm not saying how it goes. The problems remained at least the same if they did not decrease. For example, getting into high school, if I remember from my youth, was a terrible problem. You had to get some friends, some acquaintances to lobby for you to even enroll in high school. Of course, the problem for employment was then and now, and when the course of life continues, there is also more or less the same difference. So in no way do I see that young people now have an advantage, I speak in connotations of course, which are somehow not born to them, but that life has given them that they can now make more decisions. To make it easier for older generations to decide. And now, if I say one more concrete case from today. When I drive home to the Vipavska Valley, I stop on the Long Bridge and pick up the hitchhikers, I must have a full car if they're there. If I'm not too late. And also stopwatches, yes. And then I talk to them. And I found out -- I'm going to say roughly -- that 20 percent of young people don't know who the Prime Minister is. And so many don't know that the president of the country is no longer Milan Kučan. I'm sorry. These are the facts that I've experienced without anyone telling me. What is Parliament, they have no idea! There are some here and there very, very clever, they can tell you, they can also tell you what nonsense the National Assembly can tell you and so on. Some, of course, know, are informed, but extremely, extremely rare. Now that we're talking about an average of two years, I don't know where it's going. In a few years, someone will remember to say, yes, sixteen years is too high a limit, let's bring it down to fifteen, fourteen, I don't know where that limit will stop. So I, without having anything against young people, still think there's a young spirit in me too, I like young people and so on, but I think it's 16 years too early to go to elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. My friend Diaca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. I must admit, my colleague Mamić gave me the right points. In a way, I'm going to try to deny his debate and I don't think it's going to be a problem that I don't succeed. First of all, I would like to say that it would be very good and also our intention to continue this debate. Even today, if you support our proposal, we have in fact not concrete anything. We are just continuing the process and thinking about reducing this age limit. Now I'm going to refer to my colleague Mamić, and I think he said the following, that the present generation is much easier than the previous generations. I absolutely disagree with that. I think the previous system for young people has been a lot nicer than it is today. I remember, I was also a member of the Association of Socialist Youth of Slovenia and participated. We had a lot more, as I say, opportunities for creative work. Today, it's practically over in some way. As far as employment is concerned, if we just look at unemployment rates, sometimes the unemployment rate in the former Yugoslavia was not or very low. Today 11% of the average, Styria section over 14, in Ljubljana is a little better, somewhere between 6 and 8. So it definitely doesn't hold. Then we talk, say, about the apartment, about the right to an apartment. It used to be a principle in the constitution. And I could count it. Next thing. You've also said nicely about the fact that young people don't even know our presidents. Of course, unless you give them actual powers, they will simply not be interested. They'll be interested in the matter very soon, because they're getting to know things for themselves. And when you give a young person certain powers, he is aware sooner or later that certain responsibilities follow. Next, the electoral backdrop, like, which was also mentioned. We all know that if you somehow force a young man into some sort of thing, he'll react the other way around. This is a well-known principle and it is almost difficult to talk about some electoral backdrop. Then, move the line. That's what Mrs. Shirca said. We are all now discussing the reduction of the border, but no one ever asks about the upper limit, for example, which would be logical to some extent. This will be discussed by Mr Levič, at least I hope, below. And another thing is, as far as education is concerned. I myself have been a student of so-called targeted education. When I was in eighth grade, I was 14 years old, and we had to make a decision. And I focused on education virtually until I was 21, when I completed a certain degree in college, and then I saw the wrong decision of my targeted education. But I had to make up my mind. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u289	My friend Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Diaca has already told you a lot, but we are talking about the political culture of young people and that it currently does not allow reductions and we are also talking about the great impact in social life, I don't know what else. [[...]] Let me tell you how young people should be interested in politics if they are already here in Parliament, in an institution that is one of the first or in which we co-create some laws and they are already here in a short process, oh, because you young people, you don't know how and what. And all the debates in here that are all: you'll be young already, you're too young now. Then how do you want to have some kind of political culture of young people, because you don't let them do that? Once again, as an old bitch, I will repeat the legal rights that young people have and obligations in Slovenia. It is said that a 14-year-old youth becomes responsible for the crime and for the damage caused. At the age of 14, he can obtain a driving licence for motorcycles, at the age of 15 he can enter into a working relationship and have his income, he can make a will and obtain a driver’s license for tractors. At the age of 15, he shall also have the right, in accordance with the Health Act, to choose a doctor freely, to consult the relevant specialists he chooses, to diagnose his disease, to give his consent to any medical procedure, to have access to medical records, to demand that health workers, without his consent, do not provide any information about his medical condition, and so on. At the age of 15, a young person also acquires a limited business right, meaning that he can in principle make legal transactions, but that the validity of such rights requires parental approval. At 15 he may join society, become a member of a youth organisation in a political party with the consent of a legitimate representative, as well as a member of a political party. At the age of 16, adolescents may obtain a moped or motor of up to 125 cubic centimeters. At the age of 18, the adolescent acquires a complete business capacity, which means that he can make legal business on his own, obtain a B-category driving licence and so on. Now we're even reducing, we're actually giving young people the opportunity to start driving at 17, of course, with their parents. Mr. Diaci mentioned earlier how he is with older people. Let me mention that he can be older by health, but I apologize to the DeSUS gentlemen, incompetent or medically prohibited from driving a car, that is not the case with electoral law. So the election is obviously capable as long as he lives. I would very much like to quote another young man who advocated us in the Constitutional Commission, I will try to read quickly, I have time yet, his paragraph: "I do not accept the argument, because most of them do not know what it is, and various speculations by being able to be a suggestion of manipulation - we are talking about young people. If we pour pure wine, the rest of Slovenia or any other country is not distinguished by excellent knowledge and absolute immunity to such or other political moves. However, I advocate that if there is one among them who can properly weigh and who will take part in the election in this case, it is necessary to give everyone the opportunity because there is much to gain from that one, with those other young people who might not take advantage of the darkness, and society is not losing anything. After all, even a comparison may not be the most appropriate, but the main argument against the death penalty is that there is a possible error and that it must not be enforced precisely because of one who would know the innocent among the convicted. So it's irreparable. And I say that even because of this one young person who could participate in decisions on the future, and this certainly does not mean that he would think he is just one, but this is a large number of young people. As I said, participation, say, already in a student organisation - should give the entire young population an opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u291	Thank you. Sonja Areh's colleague? Don't you? Thank you very much. Then we'll close the debate. We will decide on the proposal for a decision when it comes in line with tonight's decisions before we move on to the last 13th item of the agenda, this is for consideration of the proposal to complete the preamble. Let me draw attention to the fact that there is a total time of debate, i.e. the maximum time that we will spend on this debate - I hope that less than an hour and 30 minutes, that this means that at the latest at 20.40, 20.35, we will end and that it will then be fifteen minutes after the agreement, which will be put to rest before the vote. So I ask my colleagues and colleagues who are not now in the big debate room to have this in front of their eyes, so we will make a vital decision ten hours ago, we may have decided before nine o'clock, and in this regard I remind you of the rule that fifteen minutes after this agenda item is concluded, we will start with decisions. The proposal to supplement the preamble was tabled by Aurelio Juri, a colleague of the assembly. You want a word? Please. You have seven minutes at your disposal, and then the views of the parliamentary groups. My friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u292	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. As the first of the 25 signatories and signatories to the proposal to supplement the preamble to the Constitution, I have been given the honour, duty and, of course, the opportunity to justify the proposal, further explain and talk about the reasons and expectations that led us to prepare it and to put it into procedure or to refer it to the Constitutional Commission when it made changes in many segments of our Charter. But I will certainly be careful not to confuse myself with those emotional and non-productive moments, which often mark debates and opinions when it comes to our past history, in particular the events on Slovenian soil during World War II, during the national-liberal struggle and after liberation. The proposal came from many suggestions and more elaborate initiatives by individuals and representatives of civil society and organisations, to say the least. It reflected the most, as you know, a joint written and well-founded initiative of NIB fighters and participants from Primorska. It was supported by three thousand citizens and citizens from all parts of Slovenia, among them 20 members and members of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and 80 among poets, writers, historians, lawyers, directors, publicists and other prominent features. The purpose of this initiative is to reamble the Constitution, which lays down the foundations for the independence and independence and statehood of our Republic, and to explicitly write down the fight against fascism and Nazism and the national liberation and independence struggle. The justification is stated in the proposal, so I will not read it. But I'll try to make her a little rich. After an existing and thus valid preamble, the foundations of Slovenian statehood were created through a longer historical period or, as it says, I quote, "the centuries-long struggle of Slovenians for national liberation." That's right! But it is not possible, and it is not fair, for me to overlook, in this we are driven by history itself, to judge their establishment in a more precise and precise time. In a time known to Europe and the world as a time of battle and victory over the greatest evil of the 20th century, over fascism and Nazism. Part of this fight and this victory is resistance, they are resistance movements in many European countries, they are activists and activists of the Liberation Front, they are participants and participants in the NOB with us. It is fitting, colleagues and colleagues, that at the moment when we enter the most advanced and developed European family, which is based on this fight and on this victory, and in particular in response to certain attempts to revise or re-evaluate history II. World wars and pre-war periods. Also in our neighbourhood - let me recall the recent assessments by the Italian Prime Minister and the President-in-Office of the European Union, Mr Berlusconi, on Mussolini's work. So it is appropriate to give honor to our contribution at this time, to our contribution to this fight and to this victory, by writing it down in the constitution. That in the time of the national liberation fight, and after which crimes and other indiscretions that deserve it, I can honestly say this, the abomination and condemnation of everyone, I repeat, the abomination and condemnation of anyone who has something to give to human rights and especially to human dignity, does not accept this fight of legitimacy, does not honor this fight. Similarly, God is sorry, it has happened elsewhere in Europe. Every war has been written down by someone, to anyone who is involved in it, confusing and squeezing reason - and therefore resistance has not been lost in force. And the constitutional recognition and honour goes also to the last act of laying our state foundations, namely, the struggle of the independent from 12 years ago, which again - let us not forget - is based on the values of the NOB and as far as the defensive or armed aspect is concerned, including on the experience gained at that time. Another important argument of this initiative is the territorial scope of the Republic of Slovenia. How did her borders come to be? When did it become part of our national territory, which stretches from Bovec to Postojna, from Illyrian Bistrica to Sečovlje? He became when our fighters and our fighters fought for it. 56 years ago, there would have been no connection between Primorska and Slovenia and its recognition by allies without antifascism and national liberation. Slovenia would not today be as it is in the existing squares - or if I were more clear - it would be much, much smaller, there to the famous Rapal border and nothing more. This conclusion is driven by all historical evidence, all historical sources, whether we like it or not. Let me get this straight. Once we have adopted a constitutional treaty of a new enlarged and united Europe, it would be fitting if we were able to achieve so much strength and honesty that, despite often very legitimate and widely shared perceptions at the expense of revolution and communism, we would support the proposed complement and thus join all those European countries that have been given a constitutional mark and honour of values and the importance of anti-fascism, anti-nacism and resilience almost self-evident. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Comrade Yuri. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by a colleague Dr Bernik. He's been followed by his colleague Celigoj and so on. First of all, my friend Bernick. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u294	President! Ma'am and a gentleman from the State Legislature! I may not respond to what has just been said, but I will limit myself to some other things. It is proposed that the preamble be translated into a sentence that says, "with the fight against fascism and Nazism and national liberation." It is said that after a centuries-long struggle for national liberation, then somehow the fight against fascism and Nazism would be the emergence of our statehood. The formulation itself, which refers to a multi-century struggle for national liberation, contains all the relevant historical efforts, the real goal of which was national freedom. If some customers and people in this formulation do not recognize each other, then something is not wrong with the formulation, but quite the opposite. Complementing a preamble means a historic and culturally unjustifiable exposure to one historic period, which was during World War II and a period of communist totalitarianism in Slovenia, which lasted until the first democratic elections. Above all the other periods, we Slovenians have resisted attempts at oblivion over the centuries, much wider than fascism, oblivion, bedazzling and so on. In particular, the historic attempt of communism to dissolve the national identity and existence, including Slovenia, was particularly dangerous, and was no less dangerous than the previous attempts. The war of self - conquest was necessary because national existence had already been seriously threatened. Let me mention here that the national liberation war, after all, was also war against the building of communism and against the Yugoslavia, which seriously threatened Slovenia. It also means distorting the truth about this historic period, as the real goal of national liberation was inseparable from the implementation of the communist revolution and the takeover of power by the Communist Party. It does not claim that the preamble does not constitute an expert question in terms of the constitutional profession. The preamble highlights the guiding, material or valuable foundations of the Constitution as the highest legal act. The validity of the values of the Constitution, inter alia, ensures that the values of the Constitution are as broad and common as possible to the largest number of citizens and citizens. In this respect, it represents the minimum possible total value of the denominator. The preamble also contains the historical motive of the founder for the adoption of the Constitution, the historical motive or interpretation of the founder and its values of the foundation in 1991 are significantly different from the part of the outbreak where the talk of national liberation is based. The preamble to the Constitution is based on the State Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia on 26 June 1991, which states in its preamble that the former Socialist Federal Yugoslavia did not act as a legally regulated state and that human rights were severely violated. In constitutional terms, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is for a break and not for the continuity of the rule of law of the former country. The protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms is the next starting point of the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which aims to ensure the free democratic constitutional Republic. This objective differs significantly from the objective of the 1974 SFRJ preamble, which was the construction of a communist society. The introductory provisions laid down in Article 8 laid down that the association of the Yugoslav communists with its direction, ideas and political work is the main initiator and carrier of political activities for the protection and further development of the socialist revolution and is responsible for this. No words about Slovenia, Slovenia and so on. Similarly, the Constitution of the SRS contained similar provisions. The preamble to the Slovenian Constitution also stems from historical facts, as it establishes a century-long struggle for national identity, the formation of the Constitution and the establishment of its statehood. Since the proposal also needs to be freed from the historical point of view, the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia as set out in the 1998 decision must be fully stated. In the 16th paragraph, the Constitutional Court found the nature of the period after the end of the war in 1945, which is the fruit of the so-called national liberation struggle. I quote: "Only in this respect does it have to be borne in mind that the acquisitions of fascist resistance throughout democratic Europe constituted a breakdown of the totalitarian system and its violence against humanity and the beginning of a free democratic order based on European legal culture and civilisation. The new authorities in Western European countries respected the foundations of a free democratic society. However, according to the position of the Constitutional Court, which was adopted in this and this case, only respects the regime which the exclusion of all violence and will constitutes the social order of the rule of law on the basis of the self-determination of the people with regard to the availability of the majority and freedom and equality." All this was missing - and this is my supplement - in the previous regime. In countries where these conditions were not met, even the relief from such a terrible and unjust regime as the German and Nazi way during World War II could not in itself lead to true liberation. It was not until 1990 that a free democratic society was established after the first free elections. The proposed vigil in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not justified either by professional or historical considerations, it is an expression of that era and that of the regime from which the modern democratic constitution is expressly distanced and fenced. I will not say in whose name I have spoken, but I can also speak for many people who have not signed any statements, resolutions and so on. But I also speak on behalf of all 10,000 who have been killed by the previous regime and are still unburied, despite the fact that you have passed by voting a shameful law on postwar graves. This proposal to amend the preamble with a forgery is also an act of ideological terrorism on all of us who reject the State's one truth and demand a free discussion of the facts of that time, and then we will know where the truth is. And then we will see each other in a mirror of facts, and then we can start a rational debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u295	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bernick. Mr Celigoj will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u296	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia supports the initiative to extend or more specifically write in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in the final work that the Slovenians have also formed their nationality through the fight against fascism and Nazism and national liberation and independence. This is a significant addition to the preamble. In this context, all Members of the Democratic Party of pensioners signed the 25-member initiative last February and are firmly behind this position. The current preamble on the multi-century struggle for national independence, which is certainly valid and standing, however, leaves out the supreme rise of the Slovenian nation, which, for the first time in his history with weapons, fought and fought his fight for national liberation and, together with the other free-loving peoples of Europe and the world, ranked among the winners of evil, who wanted to subdue and destroy our nation in a new order. It was an act that was not a couple in all the history of the nation. All European and other nations that have carried out a similar national endeavour in World War II, not only are they aware of it, but they also value it highly and place it in their national symbol as an act of supreme patriotism. The national liberation fight in Slovenia was also extremely important in the international context. A Europe in which this time is open to us and the world appreciates our citizens and Slovenia even after this action. In fear of the unrecognizability of our country, the national liberation struggle in the anti-fascist and anti-Nazi coalition with the free peoples of Europe is certainly a long-standing certificate. The whole of Slovenia has made huge sacrifices for what we have today. As a Member, I come from Primorska, I assure you that the vast majority of the people of Primorska support the proposed amendment in the preamble to the Constitution. And since the public memory is too often a rapidly corrupting commodity, to repeat the countless times it has been written that the coastal people were the first victims of foreign occupation, the first in Europe resisted fascist genocidal violence and, with its resistance and resistance to the first tiger victims occupied in Europe and the armed partisan struggle, with 12,000 fallen they fought for their liberation and reunification in the home country. In October 1943, when the accession of the Slovenian coast to Slovenia to the United Slovenia was announced, he also laid the foundations for the emerging Slovenian statehood. It was this strong nation's desire for its own state that it matured and matured within the Yugoslav State to experience its complete independence in the last independent step. Generations that have made this nation's millennium wish with so many great victims also have a legitimate right to tell this fact in the highest national state document, such as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the greater the obligation of the native nation to hold firmly to these very antifascist principles, even the attitude towards the Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries, because it does not threaten them in the democratic structures of these countries, but in the never-beating forces that draw on their power in the past, the fascist past, the national intolerance and the neglect of old hatreds among nations. This dangerous enough fact has recently been noted, as we have recently read, by the famous Italian writer Claudio Magris, a university professor from the marketing university with a significant statement: "We are forced to become anti-fascists again." And now after half a century and more after the end of the world war. In this sense, just to conclude, in the Democratic Party of Pensioners we do not support the position of the Constitutional Commission and maintain the position and initiative of the 25 Members, and we also expect the support of all the other Members of this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u297	Thank you, Comrade Cheligoy. Colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. You're giving up?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u298	The President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u299	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we are aware of the importance of the history of the Slovenian people and the national liberation struggle. In the Slovenian National Party, we are also aware of the importance of the facts and values recognised by the whole world during World War II. You forget too much about all of this today's policy, or some members of the National Assembly. History is what it is. It is necessary to learn, to remember, and certainly to be careful not to repeat all those black shadows of history that are increasingly transmitted to the present. It is reasonable to support the proposaler's explanation when he says "the national liberation struggle has played an important historical role as the struggle of the Slovenian people against the occupying power to liberate the entire national territory." [[...]] Through national liberation, the Slovenian people fought their statehood under the Federal Yugoslavia and, with the independence of 1991, carried out efforts for state autonomy and sovereignty and international recognition of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that our Slovenian history must not be duplicated and misinterpreted, so the proposal to complement the preamble of the Slovenian Constitution is, I quote, "with the fight against fascism, Nazism and national liberation and self-reliance", according to our assessment, a welcome gesture. We'll support the supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u301	Two parliamentary clubs denied the presentation, colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Liberal Democracy. Comrade Bevk, please, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u302	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal to supplement the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia proposed by the group of 25 Members and Members from before the parliamentary groups and the first signed Aureli Jury We propose that the preamble to the Constitution be supplemented by the text, stating: "with the fight against fascism and Nazism and with the national liberation and liberation fight", so that the preamble follows the new word: "According to the basis of the constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and fundamental human rights and freedoms, the fundamental and legal rights of the Slovenian people to self-determination and the historical fact that we Slovenians in the multi-century struggle for national liberation, the fight against fascism and Nazism, and the national liberation and independence struggle have shaped our national identity and established our statehood." In the explanation of the preamble, we wrote that "a long-standing fight against fascism and Nazism and the multitude of this movement, which were particularly expressed during the period between the two wars and the Second World War, caused a breakdown of fascism and Nazism throughout Europe." But this long-standing battle culminated in World War II, which was during the greatest armed conflict in the history of human civilization, which included 61 countries with about 2.1 billion inhabitants or 96% of all people in the world. The three Nazi and fascist rulers of the time: Germany, Italy and Japan wanted to introduce a new order by means of the so-called triple pact, introducing fascist corporateism and abolishing certain freedoms. Six years of World War II claimed over 50 million casualties. In Europe alone, World War II caused 260 billion dollars of damage. In contrast to the fascist forces of the three-way pact with exceptional military potential, a larger anti-fascist coalition camp led by the United Kingdom, the United States of America, France and the Soviet Union was formed, which included resistance and liberation movements of the occupied nations in addition to the number of other non-sustained countries. We can therefore say that among the fundamental characteristics of World War II, the phenomenon of resistance movements and the partisan war, which we saw in Slovenia and in the former Yugoslavia, turned into a national liberation movement. The main feature and main purpose of the resistance movements were the expulsion of the invader and the liberation of the country. The national liberation struggle of the Slovenian people, which is considered to be one of the best organised resistance movements in Europe, has also played an important role in the great anti-fascist world coalition for the exceptional position of the Slovenian territory, placed in space between the first two fascist rulers of the world. At the end of the war, the National Liberation Army was, according to the Slovenian encyclopedia, the fourth largest army of the anti-fascist coalition and almost the only army of resistance movements, which liberated most of its country. In addition, we wrote that a convincing military victory has made a decisive contribution to the accession of Primorska to her homeland, which was confirmed in 1975 by the Winter Agreements. It is therefore not a coincidence that the initiative to supplement the preamble was given birth in the framework of civil society in Primorska, particularly between the various anti-fascist associations, national liberation fighters and the veterans of the self-sustaining war. As Dusan Fortic wrote, the coastal people were the first victims of foreign occupation. The first in Europe resisted fascist, genocidal violence, and with its resistance, resistance and armed partisanism, 12000 fallen and other victims, fought their liberation and reunification in the country of origin. To refresh the historical memory, let me point out that following the first world war, 500000 people of Slovenian and Croatian nationality were associated with Italy and subjected to the process of Fascism and Post-Italianization. The public presentation made it clear that some foreign constitutions are also included in the preamble in the anti-fascist fight. Let me sum up the performance of academic Cyril Evil, who, at a public presentation of opinions, said that Italy, as the former cradle of fascism, had a resistance movement for national state value and had incorporated it into its constitution after World War II. We have written in our explanation that the Slovenian people fought their statehood in the context of the former federal community by national liberation and, with the independence of 1991, carried out efforts for national autonomy and sovereignty and the international recognition of Slovenia. It is true that, in the multi-century struggle for national liberation, Slovenians have developed their national identity and established their statehood, but in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats we believe that the final phase of the self-sustainment process needs to be highlighted in particular, and this should also be explicitly reflected in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is a period from the proclamation of the Mayan declaration and the constitutional amendments 1989 before the plebiscite and the independent war until the acceptance of the Republic of Slovenia into the Organization of the United Nations 1992. In April 1989, the Majniška Declaration clearly required an independent and sovereign Slovenian state. By constitutional amendments adopted in the Slovenian Assembly in September of the same year, Slovenia declared sovereignty over its assets and provisions on political pluralism, thus making the way for parliamentary democracy. On 23 December 1990, plebiscite on the independence and independence of Slovenia was the culmination of democratic decision-making and self-reliance on the way to a independent Slovenian state, when 95% of the 93.2% of voters participating or 88.5% of all electoral beneficiaries responded positively to the question whether Slovenia should become a independent and independent state. On 25 June 1990, the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a constitutional law implementing the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. This decision had to be defended by the Slovenian State first with weapons and then in the diplomatic field until the Slovenian flag clapped before the United Nations Palace on 25 and 22 May 1992. Today, when Slovenia joins the family of the most developed European countries, when we become a full member of the European Union next year, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats believes that the fight against fascism and Nazism and the national liberation and independence struggle can only raise the self-esteem and reputation of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Union and the wider international community as sovereign and equal states, and they can by no means be an obstacle, as some believe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u303	With this we have concluded the presentation Will you instead of colleague Podobnik? [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As we have mentioned many times in this meeting in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are taking a restrictive approach, that is, only for those changes that we consider absolutely necessary. We believe that the proposal to supplement the preamble does not belong to it. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the opinion of one of the most prominent historians of Prof. Dr. Janko Prunku, who stressed that the proposal to supplement the preamble is unnecessary, since the existing solution in itself also summarises the content of the proposal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that, in principle, there is no subsequent interference in the preamble, except in cases where some entirely new reasons have arisen - and these are not in this proposal - which gave the founder a reason for such a change. However, such reasons did not arise at this time, which is why we believe that any addition to the preamble would be unnecessary and unreasonable. Furthermore, in the Group of Members, we believe that the preamble is characterised by the fact that it contains those key motives and the aims of the founder, which were also a fundamental framework for the adoption of the Constitution. We believe that not only is the addition of the Constitution not necessary in this part, but we also believe that any intervention in the preamble would not be corrected and could not be justified as constitutionalists. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore examined the applicant's arguments and also closely monitored the expert debate on the subject. We will not support this proposal to supplement the preamble in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u305	Okay. We will now go to the debate of MEPs and Members. I'll take my turn. Colleagues Bernick Would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. Congratulations, everybody. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u307	Order, peace!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u308	who have explained so clearly what communism has done for us, but unfortunately we cannot share the joy with you, because you have been in the ready times like shit, perhaps today, because you were carrying a bag with you, in which was what gave you pleasure at the moment and which gave you advantages. [[...]] Then you left this bag in 1991 or 1990 and now you're carrying another. Congratulations! I hope you'll be personally happy. But I didn't know it was all so magnificent, but where is your dignity, not to ask yourself where you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u309	My friend Patch, no. My friend Kotnik? [[No, no, ……]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick! I'm proud of my history, and I hope it goes on like this. You just act like your own. There was a time when the Slovenian people - not for the first time and not for the last time - were not favored by events and situations. This was the time when the occupier not only planned but also implemented the policy of disarmament with all available means and at the same time it was the time when the Slovenians and Slovenians, together with the rest of the free-thinking peoples of Europe and the rest of the world, decided to resist fascism and Nazism. And these heroic actions and this heroic time, which has marked our history and created preconditions for our statehood, we want the motions for change to be written in the preamble to the Constitution. And since we are also aware of the importance of self-sustainment, this is only an integral part of our proposal. I am convinced that all proponents with good intentions and knowledge of the historical facts between our fundamental autonomy and independence are also explicitly cited in the fight against fascism and Nazism and national liberation and independence. Without what is proposed as an addition in the preamble to our Slovenian Constitution, we certainly would not have the one we have today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u311	Does he want a Rockie? A fellow cremator? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u312	Thank you very much, President. I will support the proposal, as I think from the moment I supported it with my signature. I think it is right to write this down as it is presented and written; with everything that is here, and also with all the introductory explanations of this. I must also say that in this case I will also vote in my conscience, and this conscience requires me to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u313	He's a friend of Diaci's.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. I will support this proposal because I think that there is nothing wrong with it if it is somehow part of our history, which we cannot be ashamed of, is also recorded in the preamble. It is true, though, that we must learn from history primarily and not repeat the mistakes we have made in the past. However, this preamble actually speaks of other matters and I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u315	Dr. Bayuk's friend? [[He doesn't want to.]] Colleague of Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u316	Thank you very much. After a good decade of independent Slovenian states, many critical voices point out that the care for Slovenia and its identity is drying up today as we are just before joining the European Union. In other words, we say that we are on the threshold of Europe, even though we are in the middle of our history. But we are now entering the new European Union. Our entry will not only change borders in a national sense, but also in a psychological sense. Such a change will certainly affect the mental world of each individual, his perception of himself, his own nation, his own country, his own culture, his own history, and his own identity. Identity issues will be addressed when we meet with other nations, with other countries, with another culture and with other history. However, it seems to me that certain mental movements are already taking place in the minds of the citizens of the acceding Member States. They've influenced us, and they're going to affect us. How and in what way we will be recognized and recognised in Europe, we will see. The great contribution is certainly our culturers, poets, writers, architects, designers, athletes - Prešeren, Cankar, Ivana Kobilica, Grohar, Cave, Jakopic, Postojna, Postojna Cave, Bled, Plečnik, Jolanda Čeplak, Brane Cloud, Miroslav Cerar. When we identify ourselves among other nations - what will we say about our history? I have no doubt that in 1848 the year of national awakening is a great turning point for all Slovenians to be proud of, because we are equal with all European nations at this moment. I am proud that in 1941 we rebelled against the genocidal, destructive, and disbanding policies of the greatest fascist forces of the past 20th century. That my relatives, my mother, my father, my aunt and my uncles and so many other Slovenians have managed so much courage and resisted such a powerful enemy. I am also proud - because Rokavaca is not here - natko Ivanko Dr. Janko Prunka, who also participated in the national liberation fight and entered very young already in 1942. However, I cannot be proud and must not be proud, and I also regret the emergence of post-war seas and the emergence of a fratricidal account between the two world wars. But I can be pleased that I can talk about all of this freely today and that we can all discuss together the consequences of past acts. I am proud of the year 1991, when the Slovenians have managed so much energy and will that today we can say that we are in the society of European nations, which among others have co-created European history. Our share was very high also because of this period. Thank you very much. I'll support the preamble.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u317	My friend Brenčič? [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up. March. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! I belong to a generation that has not experienced the horror of II. World War II, however, has survived all the key moments of the process of Slovenian independence and the formation of its statehood in 1991. Although I belong to a generation that does not want to be burdened with the past and prefers or in the future, I am sure that we must know our history and give these historical and national moments a special place and attention. And why not in the constitution of our country? The initiative to include the fight against fascism and Nazism in the preamble to the Constitution, as well as the national liberation and self-sustainment struggle, through which we have established our national identity and established our statehood, comes, is not the case, exactly from the groups of civil society from the maritime end. Historic flow and decisions between II. World War II contributed to the fact that the decision of members of the Slovenian people at the Kočev assembly on 4 October 1943 laid the foundations for the emerging Slovenian statehood, the Slovenian coast being associated with Slovenia. The fact is, as the proponents say, that without our allied contribution to this fight, without our own liberation and the participation of Primorska in its accession to the homeland would not have sat at the Paris peace conference in 1947 on the side of the winners and without the liberated Primorska would not have been the present-day Republic of Slovenia. The outcome of the so-called London Memorandum in London on 5 October 1954 would also be questionable, with which all interested parties agreed that the A zone of free market territory with some adjustments in favour of Yugoslavia, i.e. today's Slovenia, will be allocated to Italy and the B area to Yugoslavia at that time. As the initiators say, the silence of the anti-fascist national liberation and self-sustaining struggle, which represents a comprehensive and continuous process of realizing our statehood, also means to silence the final act and stage of this indisputable process, this is a war for the independence of 1991. Let us not forget that the war for Slovenia began with the first movement of the JLA force right in Primorska and ended with the departure of the last JLA soldier also in Primorska, in Koper. Therefore, it is important for the Primors and all Slovenian citizens that these key moments of our country-building are also enshrined in the Constitution. Also because some other European Constitutions are included in the preamble anti-fascist resistance fight, because the proposal for a supplement means the introduction of elements and facts contained in the treaties and documents of allied silmed II. a world war on the Slovenian anti-fascist fight, because Slovenia is also recognised abroad by its role in the NOB. The NOB is the value of our country and the completion of the preamble will be a message to the next generations, what was the role and city of the Slovenes' past and past history. That is why and also because I am a co-signant of the proposal, I support the initiation of the procedure for supplementing the preamble, as we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u319	You said you were mentioned by a colleague of Montenegro. You have a replica because you're going to correct the quote - or what? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u320	Thank you for your word. In view of the implementation of Mrs Montenegro, I would like to provide an additional explanation that I would not be misunderstood in my presentation. Mrs Črnugljeva, I am proud of my ancestors, both of my parents, of my aunts, who also resisted the invader, both on my father's side and on my mother's side. And also all those who resisted patriotic feelings. But look how beautifully written the preamble in the present constitution is. I will quote it once again and read: "According to the fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and on fundamental human rights and freedoms, the fundamental and lasting rights of the Slovenian people to self-determination and the historical fact that in the multi-century struggle for national liberation, Slovenians have established their national identity and established their nationality, adopted the Assembly of the Republic; the Constitution and so on." If we are trying to dissect this preamble into a period of several hundred years, then we will place any other period in a subordinate position: either the springs of the nations, or the formation of the unity of the Slovenian people, or the national liberation struggle, or the resistance against the invader, or the independence of Slovenia. If we give any of these elements a special emphasis, this will affect the other. For this reason, I believe that it was a very right decision at the time when the Constitution was written, that a neutral text was formed and that it gave respect to all Slovenes and Slovenes in a multi-century effort to form our country independently and independently. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u321	Comrade Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u322	Personally, I do not support this change in the Constitution, because this return to the past is the issue which separated the Slovenians and did not unite. It is absolutely not appropriate to include such texts in the highest act of the Republic of Slovenia. For some, it's obvious that time has stopped in the revolution, but that's the way it is. Personally, I will not support such unreasonable and inappropriate proposals. It's time to stop this.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u323	My friend Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Yes, the preamble. I asked respectable law-abiding colleagues what their assessment was. I got, I'll say, a very thorough foundation. This is the thought path, this is the ideal basis, this is the framework from which the will of the Slovenian people comes. And then in the constitution on which the preamble is based, there are constitutional provisions with a certain content based on some of the facts in the preamble. I don't know why so many bile debates. Look, the Slovenians have fought for centuries - we have. We have fought against fascism - we have fought against Nazism - we have fought, we have fought national liberation and we have fought a self-sustaining fight, not for long. I don't know what the problem is. I listened very carefully, because we can talk if we add something, and then we will also say a little earlier in previous laws, if we add another category to certain articles of the Constitution, add one, one, one, and so on. [[...]] But, gentlemen, not once some category somewhere "yes", another category in the narrations I say "no"; let's be consistent. We have decided to propose some constitutional changes. We propose them, I do not see them - I do not see again, I say on my behalf and on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - no obstacles to acceptance of such a preamble, nor, as the distinguished colleague said a little earlier, when inserting the word in article 14 of the Constitution - disabled persons. I don't see any problems. I can't see. And let me - I hate to repeat myself, I love literature and let me say, let me say, the future - as they say - is faith. Whoever dies for her rises to life when she falls to her death. This is the truth, this is life, let's look forward, let's look to the future. History will write its own. If we write the preamble again, I say, some truths, because these truths are a fact, I don't know why this requires a fight. Other truths revealed by another side have been revealed, and even these truths are respected at some level. Let us be patient and I, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, say yes to such preambles on my behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u325	My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u326	For a very short time, I am obliged to respond to certain debates, for this reason, because I think we have not fully understood things. Someone has expressed fear that when we start dissecting a multi-hundred-year battle, there will, of course, be other consequences. There is no other comparable time, but that is not what I, Europe's history states. By dissecting a multi-century period to record a very concrete historical act, of course, does not lead to any other consequences. The second question that was raised - what were the reasons behind the change at that time? Reasons such as these are present for all 13 changes that we have considered yesterday and today. The desire to improve the text of the Constitution and, last but not least, the very concrete fact and the new circumstances are that we have decided to enter the European Union and NATO, which are based on the values of resistance and anti-fascism and anti-nacism. Europe relies on these values. There have also been a lot of debates about the debate, and the condemnations against the union of communists, the revolution, the post-war system and so on. This permbola doesn't talk about it. It only speaks of national liberation, antifascism, antinacism and self-reliant combat. This was an act that ended at that time, ending, followed by some time, a difficult one, as well as judgments of some value, which had nothing to do with this preamble. It is only that we define the foundations of our statehood more clearly than today, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u327	My colleague Sonja Areh. No, no, no. Dr. Bajuk still wanted to stay at this time. Anyone else? No, no, no. My friend Peterle. It'll be enough for both of us. You too? Three minutes each, is that okay? Please. Every three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u328	Thank you very much, sir. I give part of my minutes to my colleague Peterlet. I didn't mean to come by, but I would like to say here that today I was encouraged by the words of my colleague Montenegro. I too am proud, very proud to speak freely today in my own country. And how proud I am of my father and mother, both dead, who have not succumbed to fascism, have not succumbed to Nazism and have not succumbed to communism. This text, as proposed, without mentioning all that has happened at the same time and then, is a misdirection and is a divisive proposal. Comrade Rokavec did the right thing by reading how our ancestors, who wrote this constitution, decided 12 years ago. With a view to the future, they wrote with openness a text that could and had so far combined everything, and everyone was able to identify himself in this preamble. In such a preamble as is now proposed by 25 colleagues who have signed it, I feel and know that many will not be able to identify themselves. It's not what it says, it's what it won't write. Dear colleague Yuri! The fall of the Berlin Wall is part of European history, and the collapse of communism is also part of our common human history. And I hope that the time will also come for me to hear the voice of the final and decisive condemnation of the system and regime, which has brought so much evil and so much blood to our Slovenian nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u329	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u330	Mr. President! So some of the debates went in this direction, so to speak, forcing a person into a personal statement. I didn't even report on this debate because I didn't think we'd go in the direction of the manual in KPD. So, if you want my story, my father supported OF until they started killing those who preached freedom and the struggle against the invader, their own people or civilians, and then joined the patriots. And my old father fell into an Italian offensive. If you want more, I can go on. I advise you not to go in this direction, as you gentlemen and Madam Applicants have done. I remember things that happened when we talked about the preamble in the years when we adopted the first constitution. At that time, some sought a similar direction, but at that time it smelled more like a change than today, and there were no such proposals and such insistences, and we adopted a formulation that covers all the invaders who have ever gone through this land and all the totalitarianism that has gone wild in it; nor does communism, which, of course, does it know. And of course, the proposer knows only two totaleterisms, the third that lasted the longest and left behind the most victims, more than the victims of three invaders in World War II, he does not know that. Remember how [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u331	Peace, you have no word, Comrade Evil.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u332	The President of the European Parliament responded when our former President Kučan mentioned only two things in the European Parliament in a democratic European institution, reminding him of the third. [[...]] Let us be a little truthful, a little fair, and a little fair, but we will not have to deal with such changes in the preamble. Preambles do not specify, preambles use synthesized concepts, and such was our preamble and it is quite good and can be recognized by any patriotic action and any struggle against the invader in it. But we cannot cover with such a formulation what we are not talking about, we cannot cover the revolution and it cannot be erased from the historical memory, even if we would be voted in by such a formulation. I'd like to say that it's not ethical, it's not fair, it's not fair. The self-absorbing, which has been added here as something to it, not something like that in the spirit of continuity, not just reading it, I've heard something else lately, something else. The revolution, which took place under the NOB, tragically divided the Slovenians and Slovenians, but the independent struggle brought them together, we were united and there was no discussion about certain things. And I'd say look at you preaching like that. I remember when we learned for decades that there would be an end to the nations and that the end of the countries would be the Slovenian nation still alive and has its own country - against Cardel and all internationalism.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u333	Let's just calm down, 'cause we're talking. Comrade Aurelio Juri wanted to replicate Dr. Bernik's words because he was mentioned and then colleague Bernik and we will conclude.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u334	I'm sorry my friend Bayuk isn't here. I'd just like to say the following. I agree with his conclusion. The fall of the Berlin Wall is also part of our history, but it does not form the basis of our statehood, and I regret to hear from my colleague Peterlet after that that even those who oppose this preamble do not take the stand for at least "self-restraint" in our constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u335	[[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] He didn't mention you. I'm sorry. It's just that the replica isn't a controversy. [[...]] Will you correct his statement, Comrade Peterle? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u336	I just said that the wording in the preamble was so wide that no one at the time felt that there was an explicit reference missing because we were looking for a width because we were looking for consensus because we were looking for support, we went into concepts that we were not sharing. And we're very much in the broad sense of freedom fighting. For me, independence is part of a national liberation fight, as I understand it. And I would like to live on with such an understanding of a formulation that can connect us. What you're suggesting is that I really can't experience anything other than a new division.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u337	And a colleague of mine, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u338	Thank you so much for saying that. Because I was probably the only one in this House who went through the period 1941 - 1945, I experienced it from Nazism to fascism to communism. And I'm a little surprised that the young generation can't find so much honesty and honesty to try to count the ones you killed, the ones you killed after the war you didn't bury, the ones you silenced, and so on. It's part of history. And yet [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u339	Please. I won't give you my word, Comrade Kacin. Excuse me? You can't get a word in. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I ask for peace in the hall, now only Dr. Bernick has the word! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u340	I'd like to say this. Look, there was no proposal for anything to talk about, it was all predetermined, domain and so on. Now look yourself in this mirror and you will see all the crimes that have been committed. You should mention communism and also fight it. For after all, what you are dragging on the day 50 years after what happened, no European country, maybe Italy has written "anti-fascist fighting" in its own, wherever it is written "anti-fascist fighting" and so on. We already know what Italian practice is. That's why I'd say look at America. Without her, your fight would be completely irrelevant and you attacked her all the time, that was bullshit, like I said before. Now, please, get to know the other side of what really happened. And we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u341	I think the debate is adjourned. Steady! I saw you, buddy Kacin. Now, this is how we have to decide if we want another word, the time is still available, then I will ask the entire national assembly, who else wants a word, and we will share it again, that is, the time left to finish. You have a procedural proposal? Otherwise I will ask everyone if they want a word and I will count you among those who will be procedural, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u342	Mr President, I suggest you respond. Mr. Bernick used the first person of plurality. He was talking about "we killed someone," "we killed someone." If this does not harm you personally, you have the right to remain silent. But as president of the National Assembly, you are obliged to protect the authority of the National Assembly. I was born ten years after the war, I did not kill anyone - not then, not now, and I simply do not allow anyone to use the first person of plurality in such connotation as has now been said. As President of the National Assembly, I'm sure you have a duty to react.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u343	I've reacted a lot since I asked everyone to take care of their words for which they are responsible. Is there a misunderstanding, Dr. Bernick?
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u344	No, I didn't mean anyone in this national council because you were still too milky to do anything, but I didn't want to hurt anyone by killing someone. But that was, your ancestors, tradition and so on, which has been going on until today.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u345	Good. I propose not to continue the debate in this direction because it is not the real Dr. Bernik. It's not the right one, Dr. Bernick, and it doesn't contribute to the spirit of tolerance and reconciliation that you're committed to. Please, I have repeatedly said that I am obliged, me and the other chairmen who are in charge of the debate, to point out whether there is any discussion outside the subject or whether I am impatient. And I need to evaluate this debate as such, Dr. Bernik, and I ask you not to continue it, or I will be forced to give a warning. Now I'm gonna ask you, does anyone else want a word at this time that's left? Could we close this debate? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? I asked if we could stop now, that would be the smartest thing. So I will close the debate at this last 13th point and, as agreed so far, I will order a 15-minute recess to reconvene the National Assembly. That would mean we'll meet at 8:35 p.m. 20.35 will start with a decision. Please, everyone, please be present.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u346	We'll continue the session. I'll ask you first if everyone checks the voting device so there won't be any misunderstandings later. I'm going to ask for your attention, and I'm going to ask for your patience in making decisions. I will go slowly enough so that everyone can raise his hand and explain his position or explain his voice if he thinks it is necessary. Is there anything wrong with the voting devices? Okay. We are considering a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by means of a draft constitutional law (EPA 700/III). The Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly to decide on three decisions: a proposal to decide to initiate a procedure to amend Article 90 of the Constitution, a proposal to decide to initiate a procedure to amend Articles 97 and 99 of the Constitution, and a proposal to decide to initiate a procedure to amend Article 170 of the Constitution. We'll do it in a row. We will first decide on the first proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21 July 2002 to initiate a procedure in the work relating to the amendment of the 90th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission proposes that the Council adopt this decision. Before voting, however, I inform you that a decision will be adopted in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia if two thirds of the Members present vote for it or more. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Excuse me! You've raised your hand early enough. Hey, buddy. Didn't I ask everyone to check out the voting device before? [[Back-up advertising.]] I don't believe you, no offense. Without touching the ballot - if she had worked before, she should have done it now. However, you have raised your hand in time and, as always, I will now go to the vote again. If we raised our hand after the vote ended, I would not do that and I would never do that; I have already explained that. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision to support or adopt a proposal for the initiation of a procedure in the work relating to the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 84 in attendance, 56 in and 26 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia..." [[Back-up advertising.]] It's been adopted. Just a moment, please. Just a moment, Comrade Squire. It was adopted. Well, I'll be grateful. Of course I'll be available to say it twice, but that might disturb everyone else. [[...]] I'd like to have your attention, and I'll talk to you later. Now we're almost busy, and believe me, everyone's in trouble if they're a little louder. We move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21.7.2002..." [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, any one of you would be right if I said that I was leading the procedure wrong or that I read something wrong and that we didn't properly perform it. And you have to help me out that there is no noise in the hall, because that is the only way to ensure the correctness of the procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21 July 2002 and 21.11.2002 for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of Articles 97 and 99 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission has proposed to the assembly that this Decision should not be adopted. Here too is the notification that this decision will be adopted if two thirds or more of the Members present vote for it. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 83 present, 43 to and 29 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 29.]] He wasn't accepted. We are at the third decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 21 July 2002 and 21.11.2002 respectively for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 170 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission proposes not to accept this. This Decision will be adopted if two thirds of colleagues and colleagues vote for it or more. Can we make a decision? We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 83 present, 35 for and 44 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] This Decision has not been adopted. Hey, buddy, can I ask you to come over here for a second? Now we've got one of your documents on the table, and I don't know if you can please step for a moment, just to be clear. [[...]] [[...]] Good. See, only colleagues must first get this at Sam to explain to the National Assembly, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group proposed an amendment to the draft position on the proposal to amend Article 90 of the Constitution. [[...]] It's a decision we just adopted. The proposal is to delete the second paragraph in the text. We would now move on to a debate on the draft constitutional law and positions and, of course, there would be a debate here, where my colleague Tsukati says they will also open this debate. We are certainly not going to make a decision before the colleagues of this document get on the bench. Now I ask, would the National Assembly agree that we might decide on other points so that we could get this document on the bench? This is it, please, buddy Tuck, please. If not, we'll hang up, of course, until you get it on the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u347	If you'll excuse me, I have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u348	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u349	That's what I'm talking Indeed, the Rules of Procedure states that if the opening of the constitutional amendment procedure is adopted, a debate and a vote on the proposed position shall be taken, as proposed by the Constitutional Commission. We assume that this position will be quite a lively debate, at least on our part. We are also proposing amendments to this position, so we propose to vote through all the other points, but if we are willing to work late at night, we are only proposing that the debate on positions be moved to one of the next meetings, when all positions, those points which will be adopted for the opening of the procedure, should be discussed at a special meeting. So, the decision is yours, but we assume that at least on our side, the debate on a position that is problematic, very lively, and we will also debate. Of course, we can't be quiet about all things.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Look, if I understand correctly, before we make a final decision on our position, we'll go back to the Constitutional Commission. Don't you? We should now consult on how best to complete this process. Or it would be acceptable for everyone to stop here deciding about this point, at this point and decide about everyone else definitively, and then see when you get this on the bench, how we will act on this. Is this acceptable to everyone? No, no, no. Please, colleague Anderlich, let's talk about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u351	In view of how this discussion started and the poorly-managed session, I am afraid that something will "approach" because, as Mr Cukjat has announced that you think you are going to complicate, drag on for a long time; but it is undeniably clear that for those decisions that are different from those on the Constitutional Commission, therefore, which will be negative, turn into positive, a position on the Constitutional Commission will need to be drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u352	That's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u353	For the 90th Article, we have our positions in place. I find it unfair and unfair that you haven't prepared this amendment in all this time, but you've only just now entered this game, but that's exactly the same. We were prepared to discuss the proposal to initiate the procedure and the draft positions drawn up by the Constitutional Commission. However, because I expect complications, I expect what is normal and yet also, so I suggest that, however, because I believe that there will be another proposal, which did not receive a majority on the Constitutional Commission, that at that meeting, the next time we draw up the views of the National Assembly, of course when the Constitutional Commission takes a position to take a decision on the positions of the 90th Article.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u354	See, the Constitutional Commission needs to be defined by this proposal. Please! Look! Can we please be careful? Look! I'm asking for peace in the hall! If I don't stop, and we'll talk to the leaders of the parliamentary groups. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Comrade Tsukati, please, you're the proposer, and your position to be heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u355	I'd say no to the obvious about stalling. We accept the amendment to the Constitution for a serious business and re-proposal of the same as previously proposed. Yes, for the first time, we have now tabled the amendment because we did not know whether the initiation of the procedure would even take place. Now that we know there's gonna be a trial, we've filed it in time. I propose, in order to avoid the complications and torture of the National Assembly late in the night, that this proposal also goes back to the Constitutional Commission and then we conclude on all positions in a package at a later meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u356	Please, Comrade Andrelich!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u357	I strongly protest because what Mr Tsukati is doing is seriously misleading and misleading. I am also surprised that you did not make a procedural proposal unless you were able to decide for yourself, to vote, without discussion. My proposal was procedural, and I'm asking him as such. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u358	You can say it again, please, if you're so kind. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Don't raise your voice! I'm asking for peace in the hall, or I'll interrupt the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u359	The proposal is procedural in nature - that today we do not decide on positions, but only on the beginning of procedures and on all proposals, because I suppose another proposal will be required below. [[...]] [[...]] [[Order!]] prepare, as proposed, that if the proposal is adopted, a position be drawn up and, in such a case, that a constitutional commission should then prepare proposals for a negative position by the Constitutional Commission. [[...]] [[...]] [[Order!]] Proposal for a position. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u360	Look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u361	Look. I can finish. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u362	Please, please, just peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u363	Just warn Jerovška and Pukšič who are disturbing [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u364	I've asked for peace several times. Only one has a word. This time you have the floor, Comrade Anderlich. Peace. Pussy, you don't have a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u365	I'm telling you again. I propose that we decide today only on the beginnings, i.e. the initiation of a change procedure in all the proposals that are in order. There is no need for positions already adopted on the Constitutional Commission and proposed, and I also think there is no possibility of them going back to the Constitutional Commission, but the National Assembly will decide when it also decides on the proposal to take a position on any procedures adopted at today's meeting. I suppose any such proposal will be adopted. If not, we will only decide on this one proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u366	Look! The proposal is that we decide today only on the decisions to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution. Here. No one's opposed to that. For anyway, we will consider all proposals, including those already entered, at a meeting of the Constitutional Commission. Thus, the National Assembly has accepted this and today we will only decide on the opening decisions. With this in mind, we have moved this debate on the complementarity of the position to the next session after the Constitutional Commission meets and we can continue with other items of the agenda. Thank you. On the 4th item of the agenda - we are considering a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30 July 2001 and 21.11.2002, EPA 701/III, for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of Articles 112, 114 and 118 of the Constitution of Slovenia." May I have your attention, please? The Constitutional Commission has not proposed to the National Assembly that we accept this, but that we do not accept it and there is also a warning that the decision will be adopted if two thirds or more of the colleagues present vote for it. Can we decide on this proposal for a decision? Okay. We're voting. 86 in attendance, 46 in and 40 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 40.]] He didn't get the required majority. No decision is taken. This concludes the procedure and the agenda item. We are at the 5th item of the agenda, in the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, EPA 692 /III. We can move slowly, please. We are in the decision-making process on the next proposal for a decision. Watch out! "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of the Group of Members, with the first signed mag. Andrej Visiak, of 21.12.2001 and 20.11.2002, EPA 692 /III, for the initiation of the procedure for amendment 111., 112., 116. and 117. of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that this proposal should not be accepted, but a warning should be given here, a decision will be taken if two thirds or more of the colleagues present vote for it. Can we make a decision? We're voting! Peace in the hall! 86 present, 20 for, 63 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 63.]] This proposal did not receive the necessary support. The procedure for this proposal is closed and the point is closed. We're on agenda number six. It is a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law, EPA 703 /III. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30 July 2001 and 21.11.2002, EPA 703/III, for the initiation of the procedure for the amendment of Article 129., 130., 131., 132. and 134. of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that we not adopt this decision. However, the decision will be taken if the two-thirds majority and more so decide. My friend Janš wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u367	So, I will support this proposal, not because I would fully agree with what the government is proposing, but some of the solutions that are needed in this package at this time. As soon as possible, within the framework of a constitutional law or position, this solution will be cleaned up, I think it will be good. It is said that we first get judges appointed for five years, and then, let's say, traineeship time, they also run for a permanent term. I think that's a good solution. The end of a permanent mandate would be contrary to protecting the independence of this branch of power, and here is a good compromise solution that we have supported from the very beginning. In this proposal, however, we have opposed the appointment of judges to the National Assembly. This, in my view, is something that is once again moving away from the current constitutional regime or the future constitutional regime if this were adopted from parliamentary democracy, and that is why, in our opinion, it is not possible to support this. In the next procedure, the proposal, as I have already said, can be cleaned up, so we will now support this change.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u368	Anyone else? Can the National Assembly decide? Please. Don't burn the light. Technical services would like to request a colleague from Montenegro to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. I'll interrupt the session in a minute. Now you can chat quietly. Is she all right, Comrade Nigga? Is he all right now? We can decide further, or is there another problem - I ask you, colleague of Montenegro, can we decide further? [[Yes, you can.]] Thank you. A word before making a decision? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Attending 87, 75 for and 12 for. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The Constitutional Commission has not drawn up its position on this proposal, and in the light of today's decision, the Constitutional Commission will first do so and then define the national assembly around it, so that we will now conclude this point. We move on to point 7 - it is a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA - 365 /III. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the proposal of Members, with the first signed by Borut Pahor, of 30. 11. 2002, EPA - 365 /III, to initiate the procedure for amending Article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly that a decision be taken, a decision will be taken if you vote on two thirds or more of your colleagues. We can decide. We can vote. Peace in the hall. 86 in attendance, 77 in and 1 in. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against one.]] The decision is adopted. I ask that we do not now find out who this colleague or colleague is, every position is legitimate. We will decide on the position next time, although, as you know, it is already ready, but the agreement is in force. We're gonna finish this point. Please, maybe it was just a mistake. Please don't look back, we're looking forward. We have a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA 377-III. This is the 8th item of the agenda. May I have your attention, please? We will decide on the next proposal for a decision. I have to read the conclusion first, and then I'll give you my word. "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of a group of Members with first-signed Branko Kelemino, of 13.12.2001, EPA 377-III for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 83 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." My colleague Kangler wanted to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u369	Thank you for your word. Probably with this difference that I will be one of the few to support the proposal for this change. I must be honest with you that some of the events that I have seen in this house today also give me another incentive to support it. Indeed, honourable Members and Members, in the following year Slovenia will become a full member of the European Union and we will also have our representatives in the European Parliament. The category of the Slovenian Member and the category of the European Member, as regards liability, both civil liability and criminal liability, will be very different. And if we want to adapt our European legislation, then let us follow it. As I follow this final mandate, I see whether we are often under such or other pressure and are no longer hoping to speak on or behind the working bodies, in accordance with the Constitution and with freedom of speech. The fact is, even today, not one Member has announced this point in the debate, which gives me even greater inspiration and even greater will and support to undermine this change and that is why I will vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u370	My friend Jelinčič's explanation for the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support this amendment. I am also sure that it will not be accepted, for there are too many people here in the National Assembly who are afraid of any word, any name coming up. As a fellow Member has said before me, some Members have had quite a few pressures. A number of times it happened that they were inexplicably breaking into the houses of Members who were saying something, who wanted to know something, more than ordinary Members of most parties who were not interested in anything other than their position here. And that is why we should vote on these changes. For the democratic voice to be heard around, to be able to tell and point at the guilty. This present - day authority is doing its best to cover up the culprits. For only too many of these gentlemen are involved in various machinations and only too many of their friends or clientele, the superiors are too involved in all of this. I think today is going to be a slap in the face of Slovenian democracy. I hope the voters get to know this before the next election. And if they do, they will also be able to find out that many have given their voice to the wrong man. Once again, I will vote in favour of amending the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u372	My friend Aurelio Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u373	Thank you. I'll vote against it. The speaker once again made a number of arguments for me to insist on this decision. I have already announced once that I will not benefit from the existing one if I find myself among the legal mills on the Commission's mandate. I'm sure he can, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u374	My friend Jakich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u375	With the cultural word, we can be sharp and effective without offending the others [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u376	Please give peace, for one colleague has a word, the only one and no one else! Please proceed, Comrade Yuri. Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u377	I will not vote for this because I think we are the first to be called to the Slovenian public, to tell the Slovenian electoral body how to speak and how to respect another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u378	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We vote and peace in the hall! 84 present, 30 for, 46 versus. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 46.]] No decision is taken. The procedure for this proposal shall be completed and the agenda item thus concluded. At agenda item 9, we have a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia EPA-390 /III. Decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from the group of Members with the first signed Meran Potrč of 21.12.2001, EPA-390 /III, for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're making a decision. We're voting. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 86 present, 77 for and none against. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one's against it.]] The proposal was adopted. The Constitutional Commission has not yet drawn up its views on this proposal. It will do so and will be decided by the National Assembly at one of the following meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At point 10, we have the following proposal: to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA 391-III. We will read the proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of a group of Members with the first signed Valentin Pohorce, of 21.12.2001, EPA 391-III, for the initiation of a procedure to amend the 50th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia." While the Constitutional Commission proposes to the National Assembly that we do not accept this, if the State Assembly decides otherwise with a two-thirds majority or more, then we will take this into account and draw up a position. Can we make a decision? Peace in the hall! We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 87 in attendance, 72 in and 12 in. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against 12.]] The decision is adopted. The Constitutional Commission will draw up its views and inform the National Assembly which will finally decide on this. We have the 11th item of the agenda and the proposal for a decision, at the beginning of the procedure for amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law EPA 693-III. I will read the proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts a proposal from the Group of Members, with the first master of Andrej Visiak, of 21.12.2001 and 20.11.2001 respectively, EPA 692-III, for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 103 of the Constitution of Slovenia." The Constitutional Commission is proposing to the Assembly that we do not accept this. The Assembly may decide otherwise by a two-thirds majority of its colleagues present. Can we make a decision? We're voting. 83 in attendance, 33 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] This Decision has not been adopted. The procedure shall be terminated and the agenda item thus concluded. 12th item, last item, 12th item of agenda - Proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law (EPA 394/III). In our decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt a proposal from a group of Members, signed first by Petr Levič of 21.12.2001, EPA 394/III, for the initiation of a procedure to amend Article 43 of the Constitution. My friend Levich wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u379	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me summarize the separate opinion of Prof. Ivan Kristan, a member of the section as my explanation of vote. He wrote: I do not agree with the proposal to reject fully the proposal of a group of Members and Members to amend the second paragraph of Article 43 of the Constitution in view of the restrictive approach to constitutional changes, so that the age limit for obtaining voting rights from 18 years would be reduced to 16 years. Secondly, the proposal of the Group of Members and Members should be retained in the process of further examination and, after a comprehensive examination of all the professional aspects of the issue of the growing and life-forming of young people and also the expected trends in the world, ensure its completion. I believe that it is necessary to take into account past experience on the basis of the 1974 Constitution when young workers were involved in the system of self-government, in the election of the working worlds and in the indirect election of the producer council.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u380	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u381	The full question now is how to find the right balance between the age of majority when a general electoral right is obtained and the working age when a worker becomes a full worker by 15 years of age. We could already begin to prepare a change in the electoral justice system in two ways: first, in the direction of distinction between active and passive electoral rights, and second, in the direction of the proposal that the age limit for obtaining electoral rights should be reduced from 18 to 17 years of age. Therefore, I ask you to support our proposal, which we have put into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-11-18-SDZ3-Izredna-35.ana.u382	Can we make a decision? I'm asking for peace in the hall! Can you all take your seats, please? We're voting. 84 in attendance, 17 in and 39 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not received the necessary support. This concludes the procedure for this proposal as well as the agenda item. Only one more proposal will be decided and we will conclude an extraordinary session. Peace in the hall! Otherwise, I won't go on. We're at 13. Agenda items - Commenting on the proposal to supplement the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA 417 / III. We are moving on to a decision on the last proposal for a decision. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia accepts the proposal of a group of Members with the first signed Aurelio Yuri, of 25.1.2002, EPA 417 /III for the initiation of a procedure to supplement the preamble of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes not to adopt this Decision. 2/3 of the Members and Members present will now take a final decision. We can decide. We're voting. 85 present, 51 for and 31 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it that the decision did not receive the necessary support. This is the end of this procedure and this item on the agenda. Colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly has given the Constitutional Commission a lot of work. In the shortest time, I'll let the Constitutional Commission know when we'll proceed. It will certainly be the first meeting on 9 December. It's Tuesday, 2:00 p.m. I will prepare material with my colleagues as soon as possible so that we can identify them so that there is enough time for an exchange of views and views. But until the next constitutional change decision, I want everything good. I'm closing the session and have a nice evening.
