ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, representatives of the government, have a good day! I begin the continuation of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Sonja Areh Lavrič, Michael Brejc, Andrej Fabjan, Ferry Horvat, Janez Janša, Jelko Kacin, Franc Kangler, Bojan Kontič from 12.00 p.m. and Alojz Peterle. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gardens, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. [[Short cut.]] I apologize for the shorter interruption. In the team of representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the previously acquired powers of the Ministry of Education and Sport have been amended. I give the floor to the State Secretary in the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Mr Herman Tomažić, who is invited to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. In the last year, the government has been actively preparing an amendment to the Kindergarten Act, which was urgently needed due to some problems arising from the kindergarten-founding relationship, so to speak, local community-garden-parents and so on. It is important that, during this time, coordination was carried out with the community of Slovenia, with the association of the municipalities of Slovenia and, most importantly, with the community of kindergartens of Slovenia, which means that the changes at this level are harmonised and that in the future, if the law is adopted in the text as proposed, there will be no unnecessary complications. Therefore, we believe that the law at this point is a good compromise and that it is reflected in today's adoption session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolph Mohet, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. The Committee carefully reviewed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on kindergartens and took note, for the first time, of the opinion of the proposer, who said that the proposal was in line with the community of municipalities of Slovenia, the association of municipalities of Slovenia and the community of kindergartens of Slovenia, then with the opinion of the legislative and legal service. This opinion was taken into account to this extent by introducing his amendments and by making the law a good legal position. He also received the opinion of the municipalities of Slovenia, in which these committees are aware that they have harmonised all things and that they support such a proposal for a law. On this basis, the members of the committee took up the amendments. The amendments were three types. The first were amendments that discussed the possibility of increasing flexibility and regulation of the number of children in the group. The normative law increases by two children. Some amendments tried to increase this standard to 4 children, while others were in the middle. By increasing the standards in the first age group by 2 children and in the second age group by 4 children. From the debate, if I may say so, Minister Slavko Gaber first said that a flexible norm allows a municipality which, for various reasons, cannot reduce the number of children in the group to remain in higher standards. However, it allows for the municipality to decide when there is a serious need for a maximum of two children in the department to be more than normative, an additional increase in standards, and the principle of standard. That's true, it's been debated by several members of the committee. Among them is Zoltan Jan, the representative of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, who confirmed this, and also Ambassador Majda Potrate, who argued this, quote: "The increase in the number of children in the departments has certainly had a negative impact on quality, so I cannot support the proposal so that the number of children in the department can increase by just 4 children. It is true that the number of children involved in the department also affects the price, but the local community has the opportunity to decide from its budget how much part it will allocate to service subsidies." Member Jože Tanko partly objected to this. If I quote him too, who said, "The proposaler himself has already foreseen the possibility of a flexible department, it is said that he is aware of the problem that reigns in local environments". We have complemented this part only by dividing it into the part that relates to the first age period and where the solution is acceptable and for the second age period where the sections are larger and I think that tolerance may be greater; with the inclusion of four additional children sometimes it would not be necessary to create a new section. When Members decided on amendments, amendments to increase the number of children in the section were not accepted, they were rejected. The debate also raised the question of whether Article 8 of the legislative proposal will further ensure equal treatment of public and private kindergartens in the field of State and local community funding. The representative of the applicant ensured that the situation of private kindergartens does not deteriorate with this change. However, the dilemma is likely to be similar in the debate in the National Assembly as it was at the Committee's own meeting, so respectable colleagues and colleagues who will be discussed later would like to draw attention to the debate that was on the Committee. I would quote two: the first was Minister Slavko Gaber, who said, quote: "Financing private institutions in the field of education and education in Slovenia is as follows: Where concession is concerned, where the municipality or state considers that it needs additional capacity, there is a 100 per cent payment." Well, the concession fee is a hundred percent. "Where a country or municipality does not need an additional kindergarten, school or something like that, but is satisfied with certain conditions, then the kindergarten or school automatically starts, then the funding is 85% of the funds and this percentage is one of the higher in Europe." Jože Tanko, of course, objected to this somewhat and suggested: "The basic point of all legislation should be equality. If we allow concessional or private activity, then this activity should operate under the same regime as the public system as kindergarten." That's why we suggested that these things be equal. By including these amendments, which I mentioned earlier, the Committee has adopted in the law a supplementary proposal, which please also accept in the course of the hearing of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President, for fully explaining the Committee's work. We will now hear the views of the parliamentary groups on the proposal for amendments and the completion of the kindergarten law. First of all, Mr Janez Podobnik will present to us the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the Government's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on kindergartens. We are also particularly pleased to welcome the fact that the government has negotiated and finally aligned itself with both associations of Slovenian municipalities. We hope that such a way of working will also be an example for the other ministries in the preparation of legislation that affects the field of operation of Slovenian municipalities. The 96 Kindergarten Act has re-organized the field of pre-school education and has laid down the basic conditions for the implementation of this activity. After seven years of implementation, however, it has been concluded that it is imperative to amend those provisions of the law which in practice impede or prevent the optimal organisation and conduct of activities. For several years, the representatives of the congregations pointed to this. In the parliamentary group, we support the legalisation of flexible standards for the number of children in the department, allowing the local community to increase the number of children in the department by at least two. At the same time, we ask the government representatives why this provision applies only to public kindergartens and the number of children in the department cannot be increased in private kindergartens. It seems to us that this option should be available to at least those private kindergartens with concessions. If we understand Article 2, it is written in such a way that it expressly allows only public kindergartens. The decision to cover 50% of the costs of other hospital kindergartens from the state budget was met with different reflections in the municipalities. In particular, those congregations that have regional importance in hospitals claim to be disadvantaged in relation to those congregations of national importance. Given the current situation in Slovenian public finances, however, this solution seems optimal. In general, we support the solution because the burden of the municipalities before was virtually 100%. We believe that the congregations will now be much easier to agree on co-financing of these kindergartens, as they will need to be provided with significantly less funding. We also welcome the solution that the exemption for parents receiving cash social assistance is also applicable to private kindergartens, thus bringing the accessibility of private kindergartens to all social categories of families closer. Here, however, we are asked whether it is appropriate to bear the burden that the State has in its social function to bear on private kindergartens, that is, on private capital. We believe that in this case the country or the local community should play its part to the end, that is, we can say, the role of the social state, but not the burden to the private kindergarten. In this direction, we have prepared two amendments in the Group of Members, which we will present later. I know that government representatives will have doubts about the content of these two amendments. Once again, however, we support the solution to the payment of child care to parents who receive financial assistance. We also support the provision that all movable and immovable property they have at their disposal shall be considered as assets in determining parental payments. This solution is urgently needed if we are to avoid the past mistreatment and exploitation of some parents at the expense of the congregation and even at the expense of others. It raises the question of how kindergartens or congregations will come to this information, and in general how this and such assets will be valued. Most of the comments have been received in our round mainly by Article 8. In particular, comments were made by private kindergartens. In spite of all the efforts made by the Ministry of Education in negotiating with the public concerned, this is with the municipalities and associations of kindergartens, and we regret that private kindergartens were not equally included in this round. In our view, it is appropriate that parents be even when it comes to the costs of a comparable programme, both in public and private education, whether they have a concession or not. Slovenian parents rightly want different and different content of the programmes. With the solution proposed, accessibility to these programmes and content is limited and thus contributes further to the distribution of people and also to increasing differences in Slovenian society. As we say, as a possible solution in the Group of Members, we have drafted an amendment that, in our view, could help solve this problem. We will talk more about this further; I hope we will also convince you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In principle, in the DeSUS Group, we support the complementary proposal for a law on kindergartens. In addition to the amendments tabled by the coalition and agreed with them and co-proposer, the Group has also tabled its own amendment to Article 4 of the Act in order to resolve one of the existing problems arising from Article 28 of the Kindergarten Act. This is a problem between local communities paying the difference in price to be settled by parents and the price to be paid by the local community. These problems arise between different local communities, mainly in and around major cities. We believe that the state should find a solution so that there are no disputed situations between local communities; only this should be defined in the law in such a way that these disputes do not arise, which the current law does not provide. Our amendment would have solved it, but it appears that it was put in a procedurally incorrect manner. Although we have agreed, together with the minister and his co-workers and the chairman of the committee, that we will find such a solution that will sustain the procedure. I guess that's not it now. We were prepared even to withdraw the law already introduced so that this bill could be considered as a priority in order not to create a time barrier to dealing with this law. And if this is not possible now, then with our initial proposal of the law to Article 28, we will re-enter the procedure by supplementing it. What's going on? In rural local communities prices are slightly lower. It is also likely that the maintenance and construction of rural kindergartens is cheaper than in cities. Urban programmes are more expensive and local communities must pay this difference to those parents who do not have a kindergarten in their own place and drive their children to a remote, municipal municipality, causing these disputes and even a threat to the courts and the judicial resolution of such cases. Of course, the law now allows such disputes to occur even in a court of law. On behalf of our delegation, I would only call on the Ministry and the professional services to help resolve such matters in the future. And at a meeting of ten congregations in the presence of the Secretary of State, a promise was made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Hello government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a new law that has quite a few complementary changes. This novel is intended to legitimize the flexible standard for the number of children in the kindergarten department. The municipalities will be given the opportunity to increase the number of children in the department and thus have the opportunity to resolve the embarrassments that sometimes arise from more enrollment in the departments. The systematisation of jobs shall ensure the simultaneous presence of the educator and the assistant to the trainers in the department. The management of the kindergarten is obliged to align all elements of the annual work plan, which has financial implications, with the founder’s congregation, which we think is very necessary. The municipality is also required under Article 28 to provide the kindergarten with the means to cover the costs of the activities and tasks necessary for the implementation of the preschool programme. These costs are not included in the cost of the programme. The problem we see in the New Slovenia Group is that private kindergartens will be in a discriminatory position. Not only will they get only 85% of the value of the programme, but also in that the basis for calculating the obligations of the municipality for each child involved in private kindergarten will be the price of the same programme in public kindergarten in the municipality area. This price varies greatly from one municipality to another. There is also no guardian in law to prevent municipalities from lowering the prices of the basic programme. Although it is not explicitly stated in the law that private kindergartens receive 85% of the funding referred to in Article 28a which is necessary to cover the costs of activities and tasks for the implementation of programmes and which are provided by the founder municipality in kindergarten, we consider that they are entitled to do so. Only in this case can it be said that the municipalities provide 85% of the funds for a child’s public kindergarten. Nevertheless, parental allowance in a private kindergarten is higher than in a public kindergarten. The question is whether a private kindergarten is really accessible to all children, including those whose parents have lower personal incomes. In the New Slovenia Group, we also disagree with the fact that only half of the funds for salaries and benefits and taxes and contributions are provided from the State budget for educators working in hospital kindergartens. We believe that the municipalities in the areas where the regional hospitals are located cannot bear these additional costs. We are afraid that these kindergarten departments will begin to break down, so the proposed decision-making process is worth considering. In the New Slovenia Group, we see a solution in providing kindergartens with a systemic source of funding so that they can maintain the current standard. Otherwise, in Slovenia we will have kindergartens with very different standards, which we cannot agree with. A regulation on the methodology for the design of public service kindergarten programmes is needed so that the prices for public education programmes will become more uniform. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the decision that parents pay their share of the contribution honestly, given the family income in full and not only on wages. We accept the law as a matter of urgency in order to resolve certain problems as soon as possible. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we do not think that this novel essentially solves the underlying problem of providing funding to municipalities so that they can meet all the obligations imposed by the State through laws. In the New Slovenia Group, we will be a novelty, although it brings many new solutions, only partially supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear representatives of the executive branch, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that changes in the law in kindergartens are necessary, but we are asking quite a few questions which I will now, if you will allow, even lower. First of all, in the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves if the solutions for adapting the standards are really the most appropriate. And whether the current system of funding for municipalities is the only possible and only one fair to the regions. In the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we believe that pre-school children are not treated equally in the system of educational institutions. It is precisely because of demographic data, when we have fewer children in Slovenia, that we should maintain and raise the quality of preschool education, which basically makes it possible for the kindergarten law to be written and justified in seven years ago. In the Slovenian National Party, we also believe that, due to the lack of coordination and increasing costs with the municipal or state budget funding system, savings will be made to the youngest citizens and, worse still, to the quality of the educational work. The next point we have seen in the Slovenian National Party is that in all areas of life we follow European standards, but when we look at Rapporteur number 35 and look at the representation of the ratios of children to adults, we see that we have ignored these European provisions and European standards in the youngest. We believe in the Slovenian National Party, like everyone else, that there is no money on one side or the other, but we ask ourselves whether different situations have been checked when, with established flexible higher standards, fewer departments have become permanent surpluses for workers in kindergartens. What financial resources, how many workers, the municipalities will have to provide workers with the retirement and compensation of the Permanently harmful consequences of unemployment are not evaluated and are not accurately foreseen. We also believe that it is justified to fear that compliance with flexible norms will depend on the demographic situation and also on the financial power of the municipalities, which will, of course, be even more reflected in the preschool area by drawing socio-cultural and economic differences of families across the regions. Please also allow us to express the Slovenian National Party's agreement with certain elements. The first and greatest agreement is, thank God, that the determination of parental payments also takes into account movable and immovable property. For I myself have witnessed in my own congregation, how a gentleman with a Mercedes and a certain surname brings a child to kindergarten, and this last name I see on the list of 100% subsidized his child. Second case. When Mr., the owner of the company, sold his share and therefore received a seven-month number in euros, he applied as an unemployed person, sent the money to Switzerland or anywhere else, and the municipality paid him 100% of the compensation for the child in kindergarten. That is why I say that this is the first and only right consent of the Slovenian National Party. We also agree with the amendment on ensuring the simultaneousity of professional works, the systematisation of cities. We agree with the obligation that the annual work plan of the institution is the basis for harmonising the financing of activities with the founder municipality. We also support and accept in the Slovenian National Party the obligations of the municipality that other tasks relevant to kindergarten activities are financed separately from the price of the programme. This would therefore be the assessment by the Slovenian National Party of the proposed amendments to this Act. However, I cannot express any further position on the proposed amendments regarding 85% of private kindergarten funding. Because I think that this issue needs to be examined or at least discussed today. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be moved by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! As we read this amendment to the Kindergarten Act, we cannot help but feel that it is correcting some of the solutions that came into force in 96 by amending the basic law and that the applicant has also realized the problems that this law has brought primarily to the municipalities which are the founders of public institutions and are responsible for the implementation of this programme. Of course, it is acceptable to try to introduce more demanding standards in the education and protection process, but it is only necessary to adapt dynamics and measures to the other capabilities of society. I believe that it is very correct of the proposer to propose a revision of departmental standards with the novel, as these are crucial not only for the pricing of programmes, but also allow for a more rational response to both kindergartens and municipalities. It has often happened that everywhere where the congregations are weak, because of a slightly higher number of applications and a tough regulation, they could not be included in the wards of all children in need of protection, so the new department has not been formed. As a result, Into also caused higher costs of protection. In the area of child protection, the biggest problem is the rules which accurately prescribe all actions to the municipalities, because everything is prescribed, from the size of the department, from education, to the number of children in the departments, types of groups, the distribution of payments between the local community and parents, elements for the calculation of the economic price and so on. I believe that the proposed changes are necessary and are more time and situation-adapted and tolerant and allow for a better relationship between the prescribed criteria and needs in individual local communities. Without significantly exacerbating the possibilities for the implementation of the activity and not for the further development of this activity. We probably all agree that it is better to have a somewhat larger department than a few children who have been turned away from association and society. The fact is that because of a number of factors, especially because of inadequate family and demographic policy, the number of newborns has been declining for many years and that these negative movements cannot be compensated either by the flow of others or by the distribution of new citizens. And the problem is that the entire burden of this poor demographic policy, as well as the fall of newborns, is being passed on to the whole of the congregations. The law therefore brings some important corrections that we support in our parliamentary group, and we believe that there is a need for greater flexibility for municipalities in the design of departments that will, on the one hand, allow the inclusion of children who would otherwise be rejected and, on the other hand, a slight reduction in the prices of these services. While the Group proposes that the amendment of the legislation be further adapted to age groups, we propose that the section of the Second Age Class, not only for two, but for four. It is also necessary to lay down the basis for determining the property situation and the payment capacity of parents. For this area has been one of the most controversially regulated and has allowed the company's ratings to be used for those who did not need them. We propose in the parliamentary group that the price belonging to private and public kindergartens be equal. We believe that private schoolchildren are entitled to equal compensation, especially when we consider that the congregation is burdened with all other costs. In this case, there is no need to invest, no need to provide for running and investment maintenance costs, no need to cover loss and anything else. Thus, in cases where there is no need to invest through public funds and where there is a possibility and an interest in private investment, this private initiative should be released. These issues need to be supported not only by a declaration, but also in fact, but also probably by those which are probably not well-favoured by such privatisation and initiative due to higher interests. The parliamentary group will support the law and the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! The law under consideration regulates one area in which the involvement of local communities in the drafting of legislation relating to activities of general and professional public interest is essential. The provision of preschool education is one of the basic tasks of the congregation and is therefore established and financed by municipalities. The two-year coordination of the views of the competent ministry, local communities and operators has been a long enough time to bring the various solutions together. This is what we have before us, a proposal with which they agree on all sides. This is precisely the first reason why the United Nations Group of Social Democrats supported the proposed law. The regulations and standards adopted by the kindergarten law seven years ago are comparable to those in most European countries, of course if there is a comparable arrangement for preschool education. They were guided by the weighed professional decisions, in line with the objectives of pre-school education and the responsibility of the country, which, according to the UK Group, must provide quality pre-school education to ensure that as many children as possible will be involved, as parents will be better able to decide on the assistance offered by the State in providing comprehensive care for children. In local communities, there are various problems in the design of departments, so that we understand the proposed derogation from the regulations and are also acceptable. Any increase in deviations, such as four children in another age group, is unacceptable to us. It cannot be argued that in group 26 children can be provided with the same quality and, above all, with enough individualised work as in group 22. In particular, this also affects the quality of living in existing premises due to reduced surface area per child. In this context, the reference to financial consequences cannot be primarily and the transfer of financial burdens on parents must be in line with the social status of the child and the family. Since, according to the new school plan, the annual work plan will only have to record the financial implications with the founder of coordinated activities and tasks, there is a risk that this will have a negative impact on the pre-school education programme. Therefore, all legal forms of supervision of kindergarten activities will be so important that neither material nor human resources conditions for the implementation of the pre-school education programme will deteriorate. Therefore, the proposed measures to increase payment discipline are also acceptable, especially because they are not at the expense of the child's benefit, but take into account the entire property of the family when it comes to the payment capacity of the parents. Therefore, the courts will give priority to cases of default. The amount of parental contributions to public kindergartens is also dependent on family property in other European countries. The share of parents in the total cost of kindergarten is rising, but it is still significantly lower than in private kindergartens, for which in most cases parents have to pay even the full price. As we consider the activities of public kindergartens to be quality and that pre-school education achieves the legally prescribed objectives and that the network of public kindergartens has been built through large investment by local communities and also by citizens and citizens with self-contribution, we will also support the proposed amendments to the law in that part of the private kindergarten funding. It is unacceptable for a private kindergarten to receive more than public funding from public funds. Of course, the social situation of the family in paying for the share of parents can also apply in this case. Examples of similar solutions can be found in other countries. The proposed amendments and additions to the Kindergarten Act therefore bring about improvements to practice, but do not reduce the quality requirements of preschool education, so we will support the proposed bill in the United List of Social Democrats. This is not the case with the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Party of Young Slovenia, we note that the situation in which the organisation of preschool education has become worse from year to year. Preschool care became expensive and burdensome for the congregations. The financial burden on young families as a result of high kindergarten prices seriously threatens family budgets and becomes one of the first constraints that prevents young families from deciding on growth, as kindergarten costs simply cannot be afforded. Pre-school education and protection increased by 10.3% on average in 2002, while inflation was 8.4%. The prices of kindergartens continue to be auctioned. As we know, mainly due to wage increases in the public sector, the government is irresponsibly defusing the public sector's pressures. As a result of this increase in financial obligations, municipalities are also able to follow, in which the budget lines for preschool education are extremely high burdens, and in medium-sized and small municipalities they represent almost a quarter of the budget. Therefore, there are also problems in maintaining facilities, kindergartens and some new requirements, such as Hacap [[?]] the system, on the basis of the Law on Health Impairment of Foods and Objects and Substances in Contact with Food, which has been in force since the 1st year of this year, has an additional heavy financial burden on the municipalities and is threatened by the existence of certain kindergartens, since the municipalities do not have sufficient resources and the state does not provide them with sufficient resources. Children are the nation’s greatest wealth, and in the light of government policy to preschool protection and education, it is obvious that only a gleaned phrase. The government, with this policy of the young family, discourages them from making decisions about children, since the prices of kindergartens are so high that they mean having a child in kindergarten is already a luxury, not that this form of assistance in the creation of a family would be a perfectly normal good provided by the state. It is obvious that we are living in the third millennium and that the first and most important condition in family planning is whether the young family will be provided with child care in public or private institutions and will be financially able to endure it. Young people today are well aware that children besides parental love also need basic material living conditions. The fact that parents with salaries barely cover the cost of renting apartments and basic necessities of life makes a decision for a child a pure utopia. Despite the provision of written assurances that the State is protecting the family, motherhood, fatherhood, children and youth and creating the necessary conditions for this protection, children's kindergartens are so high that they are completely incompatible with the Constitution. As an important novelty, of course, we welcome and support the identification of the assets of individuals who support the reduction of payment, as there are many of those who have already heard showing low incomes and, on the other hand, work in black, have many assets abroad and, of course, there are subsidies that are not eligible. We also welcome the fact that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will allow for a greater impact of the municipalities on the management, organisation and financing of public kindergartens, which is also their right and duty. In addition, in the Young Slovenia Party, we believe that these measures will not sufficiently address the problems of very high prices of kindergarten services, as they are mainly affected by the high wages that the government has set out, as we know. Complementing the law in terms of wage arrangements for employees in kindergartens and consequently amending the Law on Community Financing would constitute a specific measure of the State in support of young families and would ensure that kindergartens are financially accessible to all children and that young families plan a much more optimistic number of children, as they will be able to offer them a decent life and growth. The law must also reduce the burden on parents in relation to relations between the state and private education, and not increase them, as competition should also prevail in this area. Finally, since the proposal for a law in certain segments ensures a reduction in kindergarten prices, we will support the proposal. Of course, if in practice these changes have not significantly reduced the prices of kindergartens, in the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party we will propose changes to the law in order to make kindergartens financially accessible to all young families in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Janez Komljanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives, the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and distinguished fellow Members! Providing preschool education is one of the basic tasks of the congregation. Gardens are those who help parents to take full care of their children, improve the quality of life of families and children, and create different opportunities for children to develop more fully. The Kindergarten Act, adopted in 1996, supplemented in 2000, regulates preschool education in public and private schools. It thus regulates the tasks, objectives and principles of kindergartens, programmes, financing, conditions for the education of professional workers, the labour obligation of the educator and the assistant educator, the collection and protection of personal data in kindergarten and so on. We have before us a proposal for amendments and a supplement to the Kindergarten Act. Since the municipalities are legally responsible for providing preschool education, they establish and finance kindergartens, which also means a considerable financial burden for the municipalities. The changes will enable the municipality to have a greater impact both on governance and organisation and on financing public kindergartens. The law and the implementing regulation that will follow it will also ensure the smooth work of the hospital wards of kindergartens, which will also be co-financed or financed by the State. The amendments also regulate the financing of private kindergartens or are equivalent in terms of funding from municipalities with public kindergartens. The amendment of the law also resolves a number of comments coming mainly from the municipalities regarding the contribution of parents to their income or property. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support a new article 32, which allows for a system of fixing the level of parental allowances, which will be detailed in the implementing regulation. Parents’ contributions will now be fairer according to their income and wealth. The substance of Article 32 is the basis of the 1997 Constitutional Court decision, which states that there are no obstacles to determining the family's assets and considering income as property, namely the actual material and social situation of the family. We are aware that failure to pay the responsibilities of parents to kindergarten is a major problem. This, in turn, causes particular problems for gardeners. The new Article 32.b also regulates the recovery procedure for outstanding parental obligations. At a meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport with the members of the coalition parties, the LDS Group prepared amendments and took into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service. We therefore support the complementary proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act, and we will not support the amendments tabled, because we believe that the solutions adopted at the meeting of the Committee, which lay down flexible standards for the number of children in the departments, and the provisions governing the co-financing of private kindergartens adopted at the meeting of the Committee, are good and sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And we are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 11.7.2003. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment to this article, which was tabled by the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Who wants a word? On behalf of the proposed amendments, Mr Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed solution in the law should be somewhat adjusted to allow for the formation of a slightly larger group in the second age group, mainly because it is larger; I think that in the first age group, the norms are up to 12 and it increases by 2, the second age group is up to 22 and is also increasing by 2. We believe that there would be no special problems if the other age group were to increase to four, as this does not significantly undermine the programme. The objective is to include children who are not normally included in this programme that are not normally included in excess of the norm. A new, relatively small section comes in for the creation of a new department, or these departments break down, thereby substantially raising economic prices. In practice, this leads to the elimination or restriction of children, as well as the rejection of children, rather than involving all interested people in this public school. This can be less problematic in large municipalities, where these public welfare institutions are more so and more so. The problem is for a few small congregations, where they usually have one institution, say, one or two departments, and then the cost thing substantially changes. We believe that the programme would not suffer in this way, but that all interested parties would be involved early enough in the educational and educational process. At this higher level, I do not think this would mean a particular additional burden for educators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Secretary another question concerning this amendment, which I do not think is irrelevant. Indeed, the facts show that the number of children enrolled in the department and the daily actual presence of children are that these two concepts are practically excluded because, due to the disease of children and other absences, the actual presence - at least from practice - is increasingly lower than the number of children in the department. In this regard, I would like to ask the representatives of the Ministry of Education whether there is any information - I hope you have it - which is the actual presence of children in these departments, because this information would probably be an additional reason for us to decide on such an amendment. Because I expect it to show that then the actual presence is still within what is in these norms; practice at least so shows. However, I would like to ask for information on the actual presence of children in individual departments in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I saw three hands. Allow me to introduce you to the order as you have indicated: Mr Kavtičnik and Mr Pukšič. I ask the representatives and representatives of the government whether they would like to provide an explanation at the end of each amendment? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much. First of all, Mr. Kavtičnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will not support this amendment because standards and norms in kindergartens are also spatially made up of a certain number of children and it is not good for the number of children to increase. It is true that the number of children also affects the cost of kindergarten, but this will be felt primarily by those parents who can pay and who are already paying the full price. As well as local communities with subsidies, the contribution of parents can be significantly softened. It is essential, however, that we do not raise the standard during this sensitive period of growing and growing children, thereby reducing the quality of this important work that teachers or educators offer to children. I must also say that this matter is also in line with the community of municipalities, so I do not see a major problem in not adopting what the government is proposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Despite the fact that Jože and I have been in school spaces and have been doing a different kind of work here today, I have a completely different attitude than Jože, and it is good that these views are crystallized here. I will be very specific, and I hope that I will also, with my specificity, convince Jozet that the amendment will also be supported. Actually, there's a problem in the next one. After 1994, when we received local self - government and when the congregations began caring in their areas also for the upbringing and protection of children, and when this came under municipal jurisdiction, the situation changed significantly in the country at that time. Many congregations have begun to build, build, or rehabilitate certain areas and have thus acquired specific facilities for kindergartens. Now children who did not go to urban settlements are coming to these kindergartens because it was possible for some parents to spend too much money, as well as because their parents were unemployed and had such a cost that they could not afford to drive their children back and forth. Today, too, many such children, whose fears are idle and live on the brink of life’s existence, still put the child in kindergarten because they can bring him at no cost because these kindergartens are close to where the children live. Well, it does, and now there's another problem in the local community. This, of course, increases the share that the local community must provide from its child protection budget, i.e. for the functioning of the kindergarten. This also means a kilometer or less of investment in other infrastructure, which is good in the long term. It's only right that we take care of the children first. But when we make it impossible to increase these sections from two to four, we leave it on the other side, or we decide whether they will stay out and have no choice, or they will have that possibility in this circle, but all together, I agree, a little less comfort. But according to the space, it's usually not a problem. Nor is it a problem because, of course, these kindergartens are in the countryside and because of course, they also have a lot of external areas on which they hold back and move so much. For this reason, of course, it is reasonable to support this amendment, although we impose additional obligations on the municipal budgets and on the municipalities, and because I am inclined, of course, to give priority to education, the protection of the elderly and so on, then everything else, it would be good for us to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Rokavac, a few hands have risen to tell you the order again: Mr Rokavec, Mr Moge, Mrs Potrata, Mr Tanko and Mr Sok. Mr. Rokavec has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I will only give my opinion on this amendment to Article 2. In fact, let us acknowledge that the norms, probably in 96, something during that period, were substantially exacerbated mainly by one simple conclusion. In view of the significant decrease in the number of children in kindergartens in larger urban centres. Because of this reduction, the criteria have adapted. And that means especially in those environments, in those municipalities where the demographic trend is exactly the opposite, because the number of children in kindergartens has increased significantly, significantly. For this purpose, the amendment certainly brings better solutions to those who are also governmental. The government has also found here that it is really necessary to give municipalities the possibility of greater flexibility, but nevertheless we have some areas in Slovenia: Logatec, Kamnik, I can also say Lithija, etc., and I could also mention where this demographic trend was different and in this case it has significantly burdened the municipal budgets, because it has also increased the systemisation of jobs in kindergartens, but only departments that were not. Therefore, I think it is sober to think that it would make sense to give municipalities even a little more room for variation in the number of children in individual departments. In fact, let us give a greater opportunity here in the municipalities to judge what demographic trends they know best in their areas, which are also the most influential. Let us also acknowledge this mistake that it was too administratively determined years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'll take Mr. Mojet's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The interview had already said that the Liberal Democracy of this amendment would not support it. In the debate, however, it must be said that we are doing the right thing, the following. If we increase the norm by two, it means that we have three leftovers in dividing when we form the norms in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] equations, mention that the division is going to be one more or two more. [[...]] However, if I increase the standard to four, I already have five leftovers: nothing, or one child more, two children more, or even three children more. Whoever votes for this amendment means the following. By adopting the law, we have reduced the quality of living in kindergartens if we increase this by two more children in one section for which the legislation was made. If two more children are pushed in, then we will further reduce the quality of children’s stay and the quality of these children’s upbringing in these kindergartens. I'll tell you, when I was teaching, there were 30 students in the class, 30 students in the classroom, 30 students in the classroom were stable, if I had 2 more, I had to put two more benches in there, two more, two more benches, if I had two more benches. And it happened that we had a sink, because we didn't have a plumbing, we put the kids out there, and then the kids sat there, and we taught under impossible circumstances. This means that whoever votes in favour of this amendment will reduce the quality of the children’s stay and help the municipalities to account for the quality of the children’s stay. I will vote for this law with a heavy heart, because the law will fall. The Council of State objected, the majority of the members of the Committee opposed this amendment and I find it totally unacceptable for someone who would like this country to make progress in the field of education, as in the educational field, to vote in favour of such an amendment as is proposed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. If I supported the amendment, then I would agree to a reduction in quality and agree that investment in human resources would remain only a paper direction rather than a life application. Two above the number that is now can be straightened out, and I can accept this, which in fact happens in life, that there are many children or two who are unfortunately not in the group because of the disease. But let me read to you the concluding part of our research task of our research sector, which says so, but it concerns exactly what some are saying about how standards and standards are prescribed in preschool education. He says: "It is estimated from existing sources and literature that in Slovenia there are relatively high standards and standards for pre-school education and education comparable to those in other countries. The 1996 Kindergarten Act preserves most of the standards and standards that provide the basic tasks and principles required by the professions that deal scientifically with the needs of children, teachers and parents in preschool education. Despite possible financial difficulties, experts and the public concerned stress that it is appropriate to maintain existing standards and standards because this life period is one of the most sensitive and at the same time provides the basis for the child's future." In addition, I think there is almost too much to add; however, let me say that there are different interests: one is the interests of parents, the other is the interests of the municipalities, as financiers and the third are ultimately interests, as recorded by the State for preschool education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I overheard. Look, I think we should add something to these things. The first is the normative part, which is fully prescribed by the Ministry of Education, concerning the laws and implementing rules adopted by the Ministry of Education. Here it is simply defined completely everything. The size of the department, education, legislation, promotion, then the number of children, the distribution of payments between the local community; in short, the whole system in the area of kindergartens is defined and prescribed in advance. There are also prescribed elements that go into the calculation of the economic price. This is also all defined. At the same time, all acts of establishment are entrusted to the municipalities with the task of a good master and to cover all those costs that fall out of kindergartens. It is said that no matter what happens in kindergarten, the congregation is obliged to cover the costs. The other thing in this area is the issue of norms. For example, before the adoption of this law, I said that it was adopted in 1996, the norms were significantly higher. And all the departments in most kindergartens were built on those old regulations. They're not departments, I'd say -- or not enough new kindergartens to be built for norm 22, but they were all kindergartens, or a large majority of them built on that old norm. And in fact, everyone is now, because the department is smaller, made available significantly more space. Normatives have been reduced subsequently. Second thing. It's not always a problem of space size and department size. Sometimes the question arises that there is no room for a new department. This is one of the very important elements, and if we set this limit, I don't know, plus 2, it means that we can only make this correction. And then it comes up immediately on the other side of the problem of children who will be rejected. What quality do we then provide for these children who are rejected, who cannot go to kindergarten? The experts here probably don't say anything. And these children are mostly in rural, in small congregations more. In Ljubljana these things can be compensated because it is, I don't know, 20 kindergartens, for example. In another congregation, where there is only one and has, say, one or two departments, there is an immediate problem of a replacement space for a new department. And you can't get that. And that's why we're proposing this matter. On the other hand, it is very typical of all those working in the field of public institutions that it seems to them that it is easy for them to provide a few more resources for these matters. It's a force that's easy. However, is it necessary to ask someone who manages the municipal property there, or is it also so easy to order and provide these funds? All those who have never participated in these processes of acquiring additional resources from the municipalities have no sense of how these funds can be made available and provided. These are big problems and big troubles. That's what I'm trying to say. The fact is that the standards in 1996 fell for a simple reason: the number of children has practically halved - those of newborn children compared to a few years in advance. As a result, no kindergarten was closed, but the entire burden of redistribution was placed on the congregations and on the parents. Well, in that appropriate proportion. And I think that in such cases, when the municipalities are prescribed just in the face of this change of regulations and they are burdened with this being inappropriate, and it is necessary, if we already impose this on local communities - only those who are mayors know this, those who have dealt with these problems more precisely know that there are other things that need to be ensured. Look, we're in a situation, or a lot of places, when kindergartens were perfecting, or whether this negative stream in kindergartens was compensated in other ways, not only would I say, with our, local or domestic births. The type of children is linked to the fact that it is also linked to foreigners - new citizenships that are being granted, but this compensation is mainly made in large cities, not in rural areas. And all these alignments can be made much easier there than in a small congregation. For this reason, we suggest it. And that's what I'd like to say is that this is given only as an opportunity. In any event, the municipality will decide whether or not to set up a new department or whether it will extend it by four or not, that is its local policy in this area. And at least we need to be flexible enough to allow the municipalities to use this instrument. However, if we close matters with these matters, I think we simply treat the congregations too much, too hard, especially in those environments that do not have the opportunity to organise themselves in a different way. Once again, I would like to say to anyone to ask what quality is for those who, due to such limitations, are said to have no space to allow them to enter the department by means of regulations, and what do we guarantee these children the quality of this period - none at all. And now I'm also asking what's more favourable: whether just a little bit to release the norm and give it a chance to get inside, or this closed option and remain analphobics, unsocialized, and I don't know what until the sixth or seventh year when they go to school for the first time. I don't know. These things need to be judged, too. And I think that this proposal allows these things to be resolved in this way, not only in price, but mainly for this substantive reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u38	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! If we were to talk about the quality of being here when I listened to this debate, then I could point out that the highest quality of being for a young child who is older and older, if he could be with his mother, would be the highest quality of living. I remember that there was once a proposal for a longer maternity period, but you didn't defend that one, just those who are talking so much about this quality of stay today. So, one child in a group can no longer or less be an essential condition for the quality of accommodation. I know you don't agree with me, but I'm just going to read you what the Prime Minister, your government, our Slovenian government said yesterday at 5 p.m. that there will be no mistake, Mr. Rob, who says [[I'll just read one sentence so I won't be too long]] : 'I will list quite a number of the very real problems and challenges we face, and if we are to successfully enter the European Union, we must address these problems. We have to cut certain expenditure, practically a whole bunch of expenditure; prepare public finances for this, and also municipal finances, of course, to sustain the public financial deficit despite these pressures, and prepare the economy to be competitive." Of course, I would expect such proposals and such amendments to be followed by the government in practice. But not to say one thing, to do the other, but to think the third. This is, of course, a gap between words and actions. So much discussion if we all know what the burden is on kindergartens for the congregations. Some municipalities give a quarter or more of their municipal budgets for kindergartens. And if this were to save something, then I would say: we support such an amendment, not cover some quality of being a child in these kindergartens, but in fact it's a de facto something else - it's about employment - we would support this issue. So much debate, one child in the department more or less. Follow, honourable Members of the Great Coalition, as well as representatives of the government, as your Prime Minister has said. If he wants you to do this, if he doesn't want to do it, then don't say it. Don't let him fool you. The opposition is obliged, at least to warn. And we follow, you know. We follow every statement he made and every statement by the government and then what they did in practice. And thank God that these television broadcasts are now or will we be able to remind Slovenians and Slovenes regularly that one is speaking and the other is working. I don't know, I think such an amendment can only contribute to what the President has said. So let's cut costs, give more opportunities to the economy to develop. In the final stage, all the things that we prescribe with taxes and give for the non-economic sector must in some way be taken by the economy, all of them. Let it go from the municipal budget or directly from the pockets of citizens and citizens. It's all art, and it's very simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the following, allow me to tell you the order in which you can prepare: Mr Podobnik, Mr Drobnic, Mr Germić, Mr Vizjak, also Mr Tomažič, as a representative of the Ministry, is waiting to take over. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. With regard to Article 2 and the amendment, I would like to make a brief call. And with three views, I'd like to discuss it. The first question I am asked is: in the debate I heard two different figures from two fellow Members of Parliament. Mag. On the basis of a quote - I think our research sector - found that when the government went to amend the 1996 law, it had already summarised the existing standards and not reduced them. However, colleagues Tanko and his colleague Rokavec found that the 1996 law in force was such that it reduced those standards. Who's right? We need to hear the answer to that question. Have we reduced the 1996 norm, or haven't we? The second question, some of you argued that those who would or would support the amendment of fellow Social Democrats would vote in favour of a lower quality of service in kindergartens. Well, the answer is: those who support the government proposal will be supported by a lower quality of services in kindergartens. So, this is not an argument, colleague Mogue, that those who support this amendment will vote in favour of a lower quality. We will all vote for a lower quality. The next question is, what are the professional arguments that the government has proposed this lower quality? Do you have a professional basis for such a decision? What studies have you been assigned to such a decision? Why is two allowed and four not? Do you have any expert studies on this? That's a key question for me. She had a very correct discussion on the Master's Depot. She cited the study of our house, which says that Slovenia has a comparable solution regarding Europe and that our standards are such that we can be proud of it. Why are we lowering them? Is that a question? Prove to me that two are allowed and four are not allowed. Convince me that's allowed. Otherwise, there's a lot of demagogies. It's a matter of profession, not politics. Why is it allowed to increase by two and not four? No one gave me an answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u42	These are several dimensions of the rigidity of the professional approach and the attitude towards the rural area in particular. Where the possibility of placing children decreases. In cities, if they have a choice, these capacities are completed and it is easier to follow regulations. Therefore, in my opinion, without any risk of serious, we could increase the capacity or the standard by four. Quality does not increase or decrease very easily only through the number of children. You know that, and all those of us who have worked in this social field know that this is not the case. Otherwise, there would be significantly lower standards in the school system. I'm not saying it should be like high school where we know what these numbers are. The quality of this education will certainly be ensured by another approach, with the appropriate attitude of this staff, perhaps a greater emphasis on value-building, human warmth, human relations. High education or even master’s degree will not improve the quality of children’s relationships or upbringing. That's what I guarantee you. It doesn't. Perhaps in some field of research it gives better insight, in the human relationship itself, but it is not. In order not to think that we will ensure the quality of education by providing as few children as possible and by making education as possible. I'll tell you this way, there's no solution. However, there is some optimism and, with regard to the question raised by Mr Podobnik, I think it is quite fitting that the government responds to this question. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. So when we listen to this debate, I certainly agree with those who say that, of course, setting standards for working in educational groups, in kindergartens and, of course, in primary and secondary school groups is one of the very important issues. And given that I myself had the opportunity to work in the field of education and education, it is extremely important, here is now the number 2 or 4, very close together, but if we compare it relatively, of course the jump is extremely large. And working in a class where there are 22 or 26 children is a major difference. And of course, that's why I think that the norms that were designed certainly had very clear professional starting points. And if you are talking to educators in kindergartens, then of course you should listen to them, given that in the last few years we have made substantive and professional renovations, in fact, on the entire vertical of the educational and educational work in education. And of course, these renovations and tetrotechnical analyses have shown how we can, of course, coordinate quality and professional work in kindergartens. If I touch on all the strategic documents adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, it has laid the condition of knowledge as the central basis for the development of our society. Of course, when we compare the direction of European space, it follows the same objective: to make European society the one that will become the most competitive society in the next ten years compared to others in the process of globalisation. When we talk about these issues, it is extremely important to look at the interests that are certainly different, as has been said here, between whether we will guarantee quality, say, compared to the positions you represent here on behalf of the SDS, while the mayor will be allowed to legally increase the number of children in the individual education group at the expense of the various quality. If I add to this the expertise that tells us to give 80% of what we learn in our lives to a child by the third, fourth year, in fact, these years, which I personally believe have been significantly undervalued in the context of the changes that have taken place since 1996. Substantially under-appreciated and possibly human resources selection in integration into educational and educational programmes is done by underestimating this programme. And it seems to me that they are the basis for professional development, to respond to challenges and to engage in further education, right in kindergarten. Here I think the answer to the question of how to guarantee quality, that key question. And in this context, I will not support an amendment that would increase education groups in kindergartens by number 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Although I have been in this House for two and a half years, I have already noticed that at this time, and even before that, we have adopted a number of laws that are likeable, represent a step forward, raise quality, and that is why we have all supported them. However, few of us then seriously imagined and analyzed how something could be done and how much it cost. I think that all too little thinking is about this particular segment when we adopt laws in Parliament. That is to say, otherwise, with the rule we do something of a quality, we prescribe a larger number or, more often, some medical examinations for it, one, three, and we think, yes, but now we're good. Someone even says that we can be proud to have such a higher-a-vis arrangement in other members of the European Community. On the other hand, it is the burden of taxpayers, the burden of our citizens and citizens in their personal accounts and the burden of the local community. And right kindergarten legislation is one of those where we like to say that we have a nice, nice level, standard, our children can be proud to live in Slovenia and not live, I don't know, in Switzerland, because they have a standard here. And, of course, it costs: costs our local communities and costs our citizens and citizens. The question is whether it makes sense to cost so much or whether this quality threshold is optimal. And it is precisely this amendment to the Kindergarten Act that only those who pay the most for kindergartens - these are local communities - can in some cases adapt the standard to the situation in specific departments and specific kindergartens and that this number can be adjusted for two children differently than the government's proposal. I think that's right. It is right that we become slightly more effective and thus affect the economic price of certain programmes in certain kindergartens. Because the number of children and consequently the cost of each programme are crucial to determining the economic price and also the share paid by parents for these departments and the share paid by the local community in terms of financial capacity. I expected that more efforts in this amendment would be made by the legislator or the government to devote to the actual property situation of parents who pay or do not pay for kindergartens, not just their income following the incomes of the income decisions. I think that this would be a starting point for the inclusion of parents in payment classes, including on the basis of their real, real estate, movable and not only what they have proven to be their income a year or a year earlier, and was then taxed. Because here is one huge supply that this government has never taken up or engaged in. And I think that local communities as well as parents are spending a lot of money, a lot of resources for preschool education, and so is; for after all the professional analyses this is one of the most important periods of growing up and raising a child also for its subsequent upgrade in primary school and that is why it is right, but not beyond some limit of common sense. And the direction of this amendment is precisely that those who pay the most are given this discretion, so that in certain cases they may also increase the number of children, if this could result in a substantial rise in the economic price both of that section and of that additional section which would be needed due to the excessive number of children. And there's something else that I think is very important. I have, or have had, three children in kindergarten so far, and I know that all three of them were in wards that had so many and so many children that the actual presence of children is something else. Something essential else. Kids are sick all the time, today one, today the other, today the third, someone's on vacation, someone's somewhere at their old mom's, someone's not sure where. And when parents have vacations, they're home, and so on. In short, I do not know whether the Ministry of Education has data on the actual presence of children in departments that are so numerous and so numerous. I mean, if he has that, I'd really like to know if he has it. And believe me, where the actual presence of children is high, professionally it would not apply and push into these departments. Some kindergartens even have spaces that go beyond the number standards. And why not also allow, of course, some preliminary view that the number of children is increasing. I think that this amendment is not meant to push everything on average now into departments, but gives the local community the opportunity to use this instrument in certain cases where this would have a poor financial impact, both on parents and on the local community. And that seems to me to be the key point of this amendment, and that is why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Now proceed in the next order. Mr Tomažič, I give you priority, but first I will give the floor to Mrs Zalokar Orazem, and then again Mr Tanko and Pukšič have come forward, and I think it is appropriate to give the floor to the representative of the government for colleague Zalokarjevo. Perhaps the explanations and arguments of someone will convince them that they will not need to be discussed again. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to include myself as one active participant in more than two years of negotiations between the Ministry, the profession they represented, the kindergarten community and the local communities on the issue that is now being opened. I think it is irresponsible, given that a compromise has been reached among key negotiators, that we are now reopening and interfering with this matter. It was hard, but there were arguments on both sides. I think that a crucial moment, given that the municipalities are in fact the only financier in this area, and given that they have pointed out the enormous rises or the relationships that have taken place, the increased ratios for financing child protection have been corrected. It seems to me that the purpose of increasing or giving municipalities the opportunity to decide for themselves to increase by two children was not in financial effects. So, not in that the municipality will think about whether it can do this because of financial effects, but because in Slovenia it is extremely different what the interest is or how many children are in kindergartens. Above all, in the surroundings of Ljubljana there are municipalities that reject more than 200 children each year, who cannot provide them with places in kindergartens, and in some areas some departments or kindergartens close each year. And here's the question that made it necessary to unify Slovenia and in which we were looking for a compromise solution that I think is appropriate. In view of the fact that, last year, in Parliament's research department, I also ordered an analysis that dealt mainly with standards and standards issues because of my personal dilemma, whether we are comparable to Europe in this regard, or whether we are overreacting, or whether that cost us so much, I have to say that it did not prove that we were overreacting to the segment of how many children we have in the department; here we are comparable. And it is right to follow the quality of following the child here, to follow the way we offer him as much as possible. What has proved to be controversial in this study and what we will still have to do with the municipalities, the ministry and the community of kindergartens are standards in other areas: spatial and, above all, the standards prescribed by the Ministry of Health. I built three kindergartens myself as mayor, I think in the last two terms. And what surprised us is that the biggest cost of the kitchen and that with the new year we have introduced these unfortunate HACAPs, and that these are the things that do not actually have a major impact on education, but cause serious problems; I do not know how many refrigerators are "rostfrei", some things that, in fact, we have no major disturbances in the area of hygiene or poisoning, do things irrational. This is where we're gonna have to go. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. And now I give my word to the Secretary of State. Mr. Tomažic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In view of the above, the arguments "for" and "against" are not really much to add to the matter. However, perhaps so: the professional basis, which is the basis for this, or two or four or some other percentage of the increase in standards, was, of course, produced in the professional services as early as 1996, when this amendment took place, and it is these professional grounds, of course, that the standard is one of those basic conditions and, of course, the developmental characteristics according to the individual level which is the condition for the quality of work in a particular age group in kindergarten. Therefore, these two increases actually mean what was in 1996, while four would mean a reduction in the 1996 standard, which we think is not the case in any social sphere. The basis is that, in fact, all social areas have essentially raised the standard during this period, precisely to child protection, where the norm is one of the most important criteria, but it would be reduced and, of course, it does not seem appropriate to us. As far as the visit or absence is concerned, of course no specific study has been carried out, but estimates are that about 8% of children are missing at the annual level. Of course, this is very different, as you know, from day to day, depending on annual time, from possible illness, from other factors, so that this information, of course, cannot be reliable and accurate, and of course, is not a condition for you to form a norm or occupation of an area. The condition is that the assessment is on full employment. As far as the municipalities and their position on this issue are concerned, as has already been said, this dilemma has been exceeded in the municipality of Slovenia and the association of the municipalities of Slovenia. And the mayors that you are here, you must have participated in those bodies, and you have made this dilemma clear there, and we assume that this matter was in line with all the arguments you are now making, and you were probably also referring to them at that time of coordination. The government therefore opposes this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you very much. First of all, as I am obliged to give the floor: Mr Tanko, then Mr Pukšič and then Mr Sušnik. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would respond somewhat to Mr Germić's discussion and his thesis that a child under 4 years of age, I don't know, wins 80% of certain positions. For this very reason, I find this proposal, which is adopted in this law and which is supposed to be adopted, somewhat strange. We have proposed for the first age group where there is normally a large section - I think 12 - an increase of 2, by 17%. In the second age group in which there is a norm, I think 22 are also proposed for 2. That's what they say, 9%. And from this thesis that he set for the first-age child to get the most, we've evaluated this department the most. In another age period, when a child no longer acquires that much, I would say, by the percentages, we are actually increasing, we are exacerbating. I find this matter completely unacceptable from this discussion. Moreover, the reason why this proposal is justified to at least offset the burdens of the first and second age groups as a percentage is that, in view of Mr Germić's discussion, the first age group should even reduce or maintain the department without an increase. It's from that discussion. The second thing is, like, first class of a nine-year-old or first class of an eight-year-old. Where a serious educational process begins, departments are significantly higher. And not two teachers present, except in the first grade of a nine-year-old in one part, but only one. An added argument that, I would say, this area is in some ways, on the issue of norms and employment, very capital-rich. The next thing is a few replicas of the Secretary of State. If someone a priori is against a solution, then he doesn't need any arguments. And earlier in the discussion, we have pointed out something, and in particular Mr Podobnik. Arguments! And these aren't. We or you have only decided to position a priori against. And I don't think this case is appropriate, and I should say, if you insist on this issue, at least it has to be justified. And the next thing. We are talking about a conditional option that local policy will use or not. It's a matter of local politics. And I think that in agricultural, rural, demographically endangered areas, such a solution would further help to shape matters. You can't, I don't know in some small congregation because it's going to be exceeded by one or two children, open a new department because there's no spatial possibility. And we're risking things there, too. And if I say it again for a second. It is pointless that the first age group, which is most vulnerable to development, is more burdensome and more burdened with regulation, as a percentage, obviously 17% overload, in the second just 9 to just what the goal should be, make it worse. Not the other age group, where children are as independent as they are themselves is formed so further, but the first age group we gave the largest "shus". And I think that this proposal, which we are proposing, is well founded, also with arguments then, as regards the further educational process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I give the reply word to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Now, of course, in the context of the harmonisation of the law, in the debates in the committees and in today's debate, it is not possible to talk about the apriority of the decision, because the arguments that we have cited are certainly valid enough to make the government's position as it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much. And now I have two more notations to say. First I give my word to Mr Puksic and then to Mr Sušnik. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u56	See, it seems important to me in this debate only from this title to emphasise once again that such an amendment, as we have proposed, would be supported by the ruling coalition. See, of course, the law is a law that applies to all: a law that applies to rural areas and which applies to the city, but there is a difference. Many of these kindergartens, which originated in rural areas, even in demographicly threatened areas, have also been built on the basis of the construction of new schools or landscapings, or whatever, and have come from former old spaces, schools, which are spatially, normatively, square metres per child, even larger and exceed these standards and so on. You're gonna say it, but you can remake it and do a new department and so on. But it's not working. Because if you take three or five square feet, you did nothing, you actually reduced that space and the quality of movement in this space. See, decisions are also professionally reasoned, as is the percentage and age and so on - and these higher sections - hold and you must admit that we are right in this part. Secondly, which I think is very important, since Article 2 states that the competent authority of the local community, the founder of the kindergarten, decides whether or not it will increase the norm. Look, every local community will have this opportunity, and one will increase by one, either two, or three, or some by four. Let us leave and trust in this local community's goodness! And who in this local community are they so they don't trust that the law won't give them that opportunity? But these are the parents, including the parents of these children! But these local communities are the educators, the educators, the teachers, the teachers, the other educators! In short, if, of course, one of the parents feels that he will not put his child in such a nursery, because he feels that the quality for his child is too low, that there are too many children, he will have a choice, and he should choose in that kindergarten where he will not. It is not expected that from tomorrow on all departments will be filled with 24 or 26 children. That's not what we're expecting! But leave it to this local community! It is likely that this local community is mature enough - after the third elections that it knows, that is, those who are doing the right thing working for the good of the local community to reward or drive. That's what we saw. A lot of people who behave themselves are forced out of the local community, of course through elections.A lot of people who organize three days before the local elections are united and don't know what they get 0.3 [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Nothing, because they're irrelevant because they're career-makers. [[...]] Let's leave it to those people who live there. Second. It was said thank you very much, Vice President. [[...]] It was said - with a comparative study - that we are comparable in this area to Europe. Okay, okay, we all like to compare. But look, it's just being comparable, and in other areas we're not, of course it's not good. I will not repeat what I did last night and on Wednesday on the questions sent, how the European Union is concerned about reducing the differences, and I will not say again what this government has done in the last two mandates to reduce the differences. She herself found that these differences were increasing. But now this is again one of those cases where it is given the opportunity to those who are actually most invited to do so. The profession said - OK in here. Let us also from this second point of view, out of dispersion, from this non-urban work that this part is taken into account and left to these people. Finally, look; we will all admit that it is a few days, that the department is occupied with all children, a few days. Many times it happens that there are just so many and so many children missing, which of course is normal, which is natural, which is what happens. And this is also one of the arguments that it is still necessary to let this go. You will really contribute to the possibility that those children who do not have a chance in the countryside, and those who can have kindergarten the only place where they get three meals, will have such serious meals because they come from socially disadvantaged families - that they will have the opportunity. If we make it possible for two or three of them to have this minimum standard, we will do something. But if we leave only one mouth hungry outside of it, we haven't done the right thing. Let yourself be aware of this and leave this decision to those who live there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In order to do so, Mr Sušnik, Mr Drobnič and Mr Vnučec are now in the order of the day. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I think that the decision or decision to support this amendment would be easier if we had the information - I think the Ministry representatives have - how much we reject children in Slovenia right now. How many do we reject, how many of our youngest children have no chance of getting involved in preschool programs? And if the extension of this regulation means the possibility of including such a number of children, then the matter is perfectly clear to me. Because weighing between whether they are in section 22 or 26 or that there are more than a hundred or maybe a thousand people who do not get a place in kindergarten, then the matter is completely simple; in fact, then, at some age level, the attitude towards these norms changes completely. The first class of a nine-year-old, these are children who were before the introduction of a nine-year-old in a second age group of kindergartens, here's standard 29. 29 and that only a partial presence of the educator is ensured in addition to the teacher Our attempt to extend the standard for a second age period, at the will of the local community from 22 to 26, is not accepted and is involved in this rejection. Unwittingly, it feels that this is because it is an obligation to finance the first class of a nine-year-old, where it is immediately good, although a serious educational process is already being carried out in a nine-year-old, that since it is an obligation of the State, it is one criterion, one vat here, where the obligation of local communities is, but another criterion is being established. This is completely incomprehensible. I don't see the difference between that child at the age of five and that child at the age of nine. Here we have standard 22, there's 29, so there's a kindergarten teacher and an assistant, and in the first grade, there's only a partial teacher presence. Listen, this is unconvincing. However, as I have already said, I would like to have an answer to how many children in Slovenia refuse annually, and if it means our proposal to increase standards, I think this is the case, then the practical involvement of all those who want to have their children in kindergarten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. In answer, I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, Mr Pukšič, who insists on the decision of the congregations. In this regard, it is the purpose of this law that the congregations decide on these two percent. Why not four, of course, we tried to explain with arguments that this would naturally be too much interference with the standard or quality of work. As far as the question is concerned, that's how it is. Information on rejected children is available to municipalities. The Ministry does not have this information so precisely, because it is also very different from the environment to the environment. Worse is where urban affairs are, of course, said in larger cities, otherwise it is in rural areas, as you can see for yourself. Of course, we have data on the involvement of children, although of course you did not ask that. And this is somewhere between 58 and 60 percent of the children, which means that quite a good part of them remains outside, but now it is impossible to say because they were rejected or refused to go to kindergarten alone. Before that, there was also a question about what these children have. This could be discussed - why some are not involved. A few things are also arranged in this sense - a higher children's allowance and another, it is said, what was previously highlighted, a domestic environment and similar things. But the data you were asking, it's not that accurate. That means how many were rejected, but we know how many were involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u62	There is obviously a dilemma, a balance between whether the effects of such an amendment are increased by two, a higher quality or a loss of quality than can be gained by reducing organizational problems and reducing economic burdens. That's what we're comparing now. I can tell myself, depending on the age of the child, if you increase from 22 or to 24, to 26 or 22 to 24 with respect to interactivity, quality will not change significantly. The regime or this interactivity shall be changed if it ranges from 5 to 7 or from 1 to 3 or from 10 to 12, from 22 to 24 these movements are not relevant. However, those who have asked about the effects of reducing organisational problems and economic effects insist that they are here. In particular, given that this option will not be used, it will not be used in general. That's why it's going, that's what we're weighing now. I think we've talked too much, and that means we can get a hairbrush. True, we all want to be experts in this area if we have children or if we do not have children. In fact, in this area, we certainly have a mind for sure - everyone says for himself that there is certainly enough of it, and there is more to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The last one who wanted a word, Mr. Grandchild. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues! This amendment seems to me particularly meaningful in the light of the fact that it is not an option and that it is not a rule, because we know that on one side of the congregations we leave all the costs, buildings and so on - I have already said that small congregations have quite a share here in these matters - but when it comes to deciding what matters, we do not trust them that they have a greater weight and a word here. That is why I think that nothing would be wrong if this amendment were to be accepted as it is, and the government would, of course, have any other concerns about not closing the road, then complete it or repair it in the third reading. It is, for example, a few specific matters of organizational meaning that will concern kindergartens and municipalities, for example, a nine-year-old girl will pick up quite a few departments of kindergartens throughout Slovenia. And this is where it will have to be organised, because at the end of the day, as we have already heard, the cost or the level of payment of those who hinder, for the first time, the parents, to decide because they do not have sufficient resources, and for the second time, the kindergarten is very useful for children in terms of education and education and will then contribute to better results in later education. Moreover, the matter is also important within the meaning of the organisation. We know that this network of institutions of education has become very large, locally dispersed in smaller places, and of course there is already a need for departments to expand, which increases costs, and this solution would then allow children to not be rejected here or the network to expand further. For today, we know, at a time when the working hours of parents are moving more and more late in the hours, that employers, both private and state, require workers to work even during working hours and not get paid for it, it is possible only to use free hours, of course, that logistics is also the one that would allow parents to be as much with their children as possible, at least a few hours a day, if they are already otherwise deprived of quality protection. This also makes it easier for parents to choose their jobs. Because we know that today better services are far away from smaller places, they are in larger cities, and of course this applies mainly to the periphery. That's why I think it would make sense to support this amendment. If the government has any comments to correct it, and then there is still a possibility in the third reading that this will be improved and that the municipalities will be given the opportunity, if they are already investing in spending, to also have an impact on the kindergarten completion segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to point out that in fact it is the decision of the congregations, but not of anything, not of any height. The profession has clearly defined this as an extremely important criterion in terms of developmental characteristics. And of course it does not matter whether it is 2, 4 or only, as Mr Petty Officer says, that it is known at 7 and more. This is certainly not an expert proposal, and we therefore insist on rejecting or rejecting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. I am now opening the debate on Article 4 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia to this Article. Just a reminder: as Mr Pohorec himself has said, he has also given a written opinion to this amendment, regardless of the fact that it is formally correctly submitted, the legislature of the National Assembly, which we have received on the bench. I give my word to Mr. Pohortz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. This amendment, tabled by our Group of Members, is identical to the proposal to supplement the law that we have also tabled in the Group of Members. However, in agreement with the Minister of Culture, Education and Sports Committee Chairman, Mr Mohet, we have agreed to withdraw him so that we can deal with the law before us today. There we also agreed to find a solution to the amendment to this government law. If this accommodation is not the best, it is found as the only possible along with the Ministry's professional service and our mission group. What exactly is the amendment saving? The amendment saves equality for all parents within the local community. Although the legislative and legal service warns quite the contrary to cause inequality. All those financed by the same budget of the municipality shall be equal to the amount of payment between the price paid by the parents and the price paid by the kindergarten. By saying that this is the relevant price applicable to the territory of the municipality. Thus equality is ensured. This amendment does not oppose or prevent the free choice of where to put a child. Free choice, of course, also costs a variety of costs. However, if the state wants to ensure this equality, the state should also finance it, then we change the system and I will drive from Šentij to Novo Gorica or Gradec or Celovec. Then we'll be the same. This should then be done by the State within the local community, where the funds are precisely defined, with the appropriate consumption, which the State also controls, to ensure that this equality is guaranteed to these amendments. All to the same height. But the parents should choose to take wherever they want, because the choice costs more or less. Indeed, the Legislative and Legal Service has given an opinion that does not help to adopt this amendment. Placement, I said, here's the found space [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]] Second, as far as the same conditions are concerned. Two kindergartens in Slovenia do not have the same conditions. I'm sure of it. But there are different programs that cost differently, and so let them be left to their parents, and let them reach into their own pockets as much as they want for their children. Interpretation, if there is no kindergarten in the congregation, there is no difference. That seems a little funny to me, because then there's no difference and there's no choice but to the first day of kindergarten. The only thing I accept is that if there are no more vacant cities in the congregation, which is why this amendment was created, these are not present, the other way around, the cities remain free, the municipality has to finance the kindergarten, it has to maintain it, it has to have the cadre. And people drive around their kindergarten somewhere else. Some rightly, because of the job, and some also because, what I know, they'd rather go somewhere else. Therefore, those consequences should also be borne in an appropriate material way. But if there are no free cities, they would even say, in the nearest kindergarten of parental residence, but with an additional amendment in the third reading, they can also be saved. I agree. When that is not the case, the congregation must be fully covered by that difference. Therefore, we who have tabled the amendment have signed, we propose that this amendment be accepted, that this equality and non-privilegedness of parents be ensured by this, and that this also ensures that kindergartens outside major urban centres are also occupied. People go to work here once and they are automatically conditioned that someone will, what I know, take the child from Domžal to Vrhnika or vice versa, or from Šentilj to Maribor and vice versa. This will happen, and this amendment does not prevent anything. So, I really suggest that you carefully consider that, eventually, in the third reading, the condition that is only disputed for me here be resolved by an additional amendment when there are indeed no such vacancies even in the nearest kindergarten. However, these proposals came about for exact opposite reasons, they are free cities, unsuspecting kindergartens are provided conditions, but good conditions have been different for individuals. This was pointed out at a meeting where we invited the nearest 10 local communities in Šentil, in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Education, with the promise that they would do so in the first possible amendment of the kindergarten law, and that opportunity was not found. That is why we tabled the law in agreement, even for the sake of coalition discipline, we withdrew it so that it could be here today. I propose and I ask that we also now get support for this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. I must say, in the Young Slovenia Party, we find this amendment very meaningful, especially for one reason. Since, like his colleague Pohorec, he probably forgot to say that when the congregation met, one, two congregations had no two kindergarten prices, each one had a different one. The legal and legal service here has forgotten, this case, which mentions that because of this issue, these cases are possible of all those driving in other kindergartens, 5 to 10% of them. Most of the cases are because of, of course, moving, moving, and not having an arranged permanent residence, but temporarily. In this case, of course, he pays the costs of the congregation where that beneficiary has a permanent residence. In addition, given the large margin, I have to say, for example, in Gorenjska, when, say, our congregation has the lowest prices, the neighbors are not far away, and then for a few tens of thousands of differences, it is worth taking the child to a nearby kindergarten. So this reason is not here, I think that the opinion of the legislative and legal service lacks some analysis in this area. This amendment, however, makes sense to us because it could in particular reduce these differences in the prices of kindergartens in individual municipalities. Then, of course, those congregations would imagine, for they would not get this difference, or they would have to cover it themselves, because they had, say, a very high value for kindergartens, and, of course, at the expense of those congregations that were able to organize themselves better, they cut costs, at the same quality. Regrettably, there are quite a few such laws, which essentially punish the good congregations in this way. Instead of it being the other way around. We already have some other laws that don't have a connection here, but this is also a typical case, so I think this amendment is to be supported. However, if there is any confusion, it is the job of the proposer as well as other services to find solutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. To communicate the order of the debaters: Mr State Secretary, Mr Tanko and Mr Sušnik. Mr. Tomažic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In the Ministry, we believe that this amendment is contrary to the first paragraph of Article 28 and Article 30 and Article 9 of the Kindergarten Act and that it is also not in accordance with Article 2 of the same Act. The amendment is also opposed by the association or community of municipalities of Slovenia. At the same time, the rules on the methodology for determining the prices of programmes are already being drawn up and are being coordinated with both local community organisations. So that, as a sub-legislative act, one essential part of those in which the proposer of this amendment actually wanted to regulate matters will also be removed. That is why, of course, we are opposed to this amendment in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much. I would like to say that this justification given by Mr Pohorec and also by my colleague Vnučec is difficult to challenge. I think the proposal makes sense and we will also support it in our Group of Members. I'd add maybe just two, three sentences. In fact, the local community is tasked with organising public service in this area as well. It is therefore a duty or a duty to provide protection, to establish even a fully financed public institution. Then it happens to you that someone with this freedom would say what is firmly encroaching on this area and decide to enroll his child in another congregation. In this way, it also intervenes in some way in the budgetary resources of the municipalities, because they have invested unintentionally and, on the other hand, they have to pay for some programme in another community, innocently innocent without having agreed to do so, also pay for the programme of this kindergarten. At least in this part proposed by DeSUS, I think it makes sense to support this matter. This is said to at least cut those extreme contributions or to make them equal to the maximum that the local community can contribute to its share. I must say that there are some similar solutions or rights in other education laws, particularly in the school environment, when parents can also enroll children in primary schools in schools outside their school environment and the local community is obliged to provide transport costs. I also think that is unacceptable if the local community does not agree. There should also be a link between the use of such things on the consent of local communities. I think that at least this minimum proposed by the DeSUS Group should be supported. Even though this reason for refusing the matter proposed by the Secretary of State is justified, it would then be possible to correct or harmonise this at third reading without problems. I think it is right that in this part our first proposal is also supported and then, if there are any other dilemmas, things will be cleared up as well. We think the proposal makes sense, and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In support of this amendment, I would add that it is happening on the ground, that we have in certain municipalities people who are continuously registered there, that they actually live on temporary residence in different regions of Slovenia. Because in the case that I know directly from the municipality of Vransko, we pay the difference in the economic price for the kindergarten of Sežana, in one case for the kindergarten of Maribor and more of these cases, where this difference in economic price is 20 and 25% higher than our full economic price in the municipality or kindergarten, in the institution of which the municipality is founded. These are the abnormal things that are happening in this area. That is why I believe that this amendment must be implemented and supported. Then people have two choices, if in fact the day-to-day migration, that is one decision if it is only an irregular status of residence and the matter is simply resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u78	I agree that there are these problems regarding the price of kindergartens and that it is necessary to cut into matter. However, I would not wave my hand against the arguments mentioned by the legislature. But if something is not right, it is not good for us to regulate it in a constitutionally controversial way. That's for sure. So we need a rule book. I would have listened to this third paragraph of the Legal and Legislative Service. If we have the same standard, subject to the same standard, and if a public service is carried out either through a state institution or a private person with a concession, the service should be the same if it is a public service. So that's what he's holding. What an intervention it will be, not such that it will be constitutionally disputed. I think it would make sense if the proposaler does not have a solution, now that the article is open, and then the procedure that is not constitutionally disputed improves this matter. Then the same standards will have to be introduced. I don't know if child protection is going to be a local issue in its entirety now, or if the country is going to let go legally, financially, and I don't know what else. I don't think this trend is good. It is also not good in terms of ensuring equal development in individual regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. However, I would like to say that it is not that some congregations are good and others are bad and that price differences arise. The program can have the same price. There are also material costs that can be very different in different municipalities. I come from a congregation that has already been quoted here - I think twice - and I wondered why these price differences occur. However, I would like to point out that the issue we are talking about here is, of course, a question concerning two financiers. Local communities that are already prepared in different parts to cover the subsidy for the part that parents have to pay. I think we could also look at another research task entitled Financing pre-school education. There is, for example, the case of France, where the sharing of costs between the two local communities is a matter of agreement between the two local communities. But if they can't make a deal, then the state intervenes. However, I certainly think that one of the fundamental rights, which pre-school education is undoubtedly, as a fundamental right to choose, must be taken into account and, after all, our legislative and legal service must be warned. This, however, also results in financial consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Pohorec, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u82	The next debate confirmed the different choice that the one who chooses must also bear in the difference that the local community should or should not cover. Gardens in the countryside are even somewhat poorly occupied, low-occupied and costing the local community, as if they were fully occupied, in certain types of costs. We know that. The fixed costs are those who say it is either full or empty. There's been a problem for a long time, and I think the Ministry knows about the problem. If 10 mayors have filed a request for this matter to be settled, then I don't think there's any agreement. If many others were asked, there would probably be more. It is also necessary to listen to and address the issues that are at stake in this area. There are even lawsuits before a court of law. In this, however, I also see the contradiction - that some parents are forced to finance the congregation to the heights that are elsewhere privileged. And if we support this privilege, then there may also be a disputed equality before the constitution. It is the municipality which is financed within its budget, not within the budget of the State or from where else. If we fail to resolve this today or with the supplementary amendment in the third reading, this issue will not be completed, it will not be closed, it will remain open and will reappear.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Groschel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. We in the municipality of Hrastnik have also informed the Minister about this issue. In the course of this interview, he mentioned that he was aware of this initiative by DeSUS. At that time we also told our congregation that we have free cities, that we also have such organized time in kindergarten - I think it is until 5:00 or 6:00 p.m., which means that everyone could have children in our kindergarten. Of course, if there is no kindergarten in the congregation, it is normal for the legislature to explain. If I have correctly understood the Secretary of State, he has made sure that this will be regulated in a sub-legislative act. If that's the case, in this case, I'm not going to give the amendment my support and I'm going to trust myself. On the other hand, I think this amendment should receive support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomažic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u86	In fact, the problem is that the same programmes should have the same prices. This amendment is essentially materially flawed from this point of view because it does not determine who pays the difference at these prices; if the municipality does not pay it, whether the parents pay it. If paid by parents, this is in conflict with articles 30 and 32 of the Kindergarten Act. And it is precisely this rule on the methodology for determining the price that is trying to settle this matter. This rule is already in coordination with the community association, and this is what we are predicting will be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. When, as a Member, I feel obliged to call back, that's when I do. I would like to say with full responsibility when I have read in peace the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the content of the amendments of my colleagues from DeSUS that I find this opinion from a professional point of view very controversial. I would be interested in their broader professional explanations of what they see as unconstitutional. As a layman in this area, but as someone who knows the structure of the constitutional system in Slovenia, I do not see it. Above all, I am concerned when at times a different opinion comes into play. And when it is not otherwise possible to oppose the amendment, the professional service writes that it is an expert or otherwise controversial amendment. It really hurts when I read it. In this amendment, the interests of Ljubljana are hidden and the cities of Maribor. The amendment, however, is fair and good.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that things should sometimes not be viewed with bureaucratic eyes, but as they live as they are on the ground, and therefore I would say that this should be seen with Slovenian eyes. Slovenia is not only Maribor and Ljubljana, but perhaps Celje is among other areas where the situation is significantly different. And the fact is that the differences between prices were, were and probably will be. That's life, because after all, thank God, we don't have everything unified and prescribed. Just as we may have wanted things to be written sometimes, we have found that this is not possible after all, because tomorrow a new matter will appear, and then the whole thing will fall down because it doesn't say so, and then I don't have to do it because they didn't write me a decision, in a parable. I would say that life must be watched, not by certain theoretical research, which may even be meaningless. Here I would mention that Slovenia is far from France, and even such a comparison is not possible for local communities to agree with each other, but if this does not work, the country should intervene. This is completely irrelevant for Slovenia. I'll just give you one case that's very close. Take a look at the financing of cultural institutions that are of wider importance to the region. Could the congregations have agreed? They're not. Did the state intervene? It's not. It is said that this is speaking there in three days because it is not real because the country does not want or does not want us or the representatives of the country that would cover this area do not want it, do not want it, do not want it or cannot. I'm not going to let go of what's causing it. But the fact is, and things are, and the congregations will never agree, the representatives of the congregations will never agree to settle these matters, because, after all, it is not possible, it is not possible for them to come to the same price. It's just not possible. However, prices may vary. And we have to do this now, whether we or someone else, but I think we're the most invited here to see this matter, to acknowledge it, and to find out that the situation is possible, that it is such that there are differences. Now it is necessary to find a solution for this, not to say it, but to make a deal, but if it does not work out, let someone else do it, I don't know. That's not working. And this amendment that DeSUS colleagues made, I think it saves part of it. I'm not saying that this is the ideal solution, that the thing probably could be improved yet, but if we throw it away now, then we'll never be able to improve it, because it'll just be gone. In this context, I support this amendment, and not only do I support it, it seems to me that such a solution is good and appropriate, and it takes into account life as it is, but not some tantrum in the walls, when you see nothing else and say, under this article and this paragraph, you have nothing to look for and we have nothing to talk about, we have done. I don't mean that literally, but I'm kind of cariculating because I'm trying to say that you have to look at life, not the letter of the law and the bureaucracy. Things are like this, as soon as we come to terms with this, that there are differences, we will be able to resolve the matter sooner. But if we don't admit it, we'll never solve the problem. Now it's just a question of whether we want to save him or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Tank. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I would only point to one more thing. If this proposal by the DeSUS Group is not acceptable from the point of view of Article 14 of the Constitution, it will not be possible to resolve this matter in this way also by means of this Regulation. That's a lot less. I think that the proposal to resolve this in this Article is sufficiently corrective and that anything that is not possibly in line can be corrected in the third reading phase. I think the proposal is very correct in all respects. The thought which is a day, but which can be processed at the next stage, is also justified. But I don't think that if there's no legal basis, you can't save you with a rule book. It's impossible. And if not, even if you want to draw up the rules, I think it makes sense for this new proposal to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The regulation does not solve the problem of different prices, but solves this problem of different prices. The Regulation lays down a methodology whereby the same programmes will be equally applied. Of course, with all due respect, Mr Petan, who believes that this cannot be resolved. But the very purpose of this rule is to eliminate the price difference. So this problem of solving differences no longer exists.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? [[Yeah.]] I conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article and open the debate on Article 6 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party Group to this Article. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. The present first paragraph of Article 34 of the fourth indent, which speaks of private kindergartens and funding conditions, speaks of private kindergartens as belonging to the budget of local communities, if they meet the following conditions, and speaks in the fourth indent, if they are accessible to all children, with the proposed solution proposed by the Government to the new Article 6, where, of course, this level of co-financing is reduced, the government, in the event that the parents are exempt from payment of the child's allowance, seems inappropriate to us that 15% of the difference should be borne by a private nursery. It is also inappropriate because this is inequality and inaccessibility before the law to all children, which will remain, even if this law is adopted, in Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act. The fact is that, following the current regime, private education for each child of the municipalities receives 85% of the funds allocated by the local community for salaries and material costs. However, the government has drawn up a new proposal to ensure transparency and unification of the funding of private kindergartens by means of a public kindergarten methodology, whereby the municipality would contribute 85% of the funds to the public kindergarten according to the parent’s pay grade. It is said that the basic dilemma is that material costs are missed in the functioning of private kindergartens. And here is also this 15% difference, which is now substantially obvious and more negative for private kindergartens. The fact is that it is not possible everywhere; of course, we know private kindergartens by law which have a qualification for funding. This is clearly stated in Article 34, which states: if it implements at least a half-day programme, if it involves at least two sections of preschool children, if they have employees or otherwise provided trainers to implement programmes in accordance with the law and other rules and, of course, what I have already mentioned, if they are accessible to all children. Only then does it belong to 85% or what we propose 100%. Why 100%? Because there is a need to define equality between all children and parents. I'd even like to raise one question here. What if in some areas it is impossible to put a child in public kindergarten? Because he's gone, he's just gone. We thereby suppress the possibility of setting up a private initiative where there is no public protection, and therefore the interest is expressed. There are no conditions at this time. I'm sure more than our amendment has been put in place to ensure that 15% are covered by the founder. We then, in Article 8, in the amendment, say that the state should cover at least 85%. The remaining difference between 85% and 100% in private kindergarten is a matter of the local community. Why? The local community decides whether it will cover more than 85% or less. In view of the trends in the development of the public kindergarten network and, of course, the possibilities of providing a public network compared to the possibilities of a private initiative. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we appeal once again to all Members and Members that, given that we actually also make these amendments accessible to all children, the equality of these conditions should also be in a public or private kindergarten that meets the legal conditions, to support our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u98	This amendment will be supported by the New Slovenia Group in order to ensure the weakest appropriate payment method, as well as another effect, which may have been a little stressed, ensuring the pluralisation of this protective activity. This has also been pointed out by the Constitutional Court in the law on education, namely to speed up. Sometimes wrong comparisons are used between the Slovenian foreign system regarding the level of funding. In particular, in Germany or in Italy, where there is a different system of funding for founders, those who are generally founders and providers of pluralisation, whether it is provided by budgetary benefits to various target associations, which then establish such activities, could be a tax from the State, I don't know, a church tax and something like that. Therefore, these comparisons do not hold up between percentages. In those systems, founders receive as founders for their primary activity, and then they finance this activity. It is not that then parents should pay 100% in full or, say, slightly lower percentages than is explained. Such an explanation is not appropriate. Therefore, the pluralisation of kindergartens needs to be ensured in this way, and this will also reduce regional disparities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on Article 6? [[No, no, ……]] I will then conclude the debate and turn to the debate on Article 8 and on the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. Anyone want a word about Article 8? Comrade Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u100	It seems to us that those who carry out an educational activity are doing this activity under the same conditions, as is said to be subject to the same price adjustment in this case. We propose in our amendments that a private kindergarten be given exactly the same price as a public kindergarten. It should also be borne in mind that in this case, when a private kindergarten is established, the municipality is exempt from investment, is exempt from investment maintenance, is exempt from material costs, and there is no need to provide it with any functions for the reputation of a good master. We believe that this is a minimal contribution that we can make in this part to provide funds for the operation of these kindergartens as well. The previous contribution by Comrade Drobnik also mentioned pluralisation or the possibility for people to choose where they will give the child, but within the local community. I think it is right for these options to be supported, because, in all areas, if we stress the promotion of privatisation and private initiative, it is also right to take one step in this area, and by doing so, not only do we make it a declaration, but also with a concrete proposal, with the specific approval of the percentage obtained by these kindergartens in this title. I think that we should not put this kindergarten in any worse position than public kindergartens, especially when I said earlier that the local community is burdened with a variety of other costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. Besides, my friend Rokavec has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. I would just like to stress once again what I already am in Article 6. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party speaks about the fact that the local community can also provide more than 85% of the funds for private kindergarten operations. It is one sober assessment that each local community has, namely, to ensure the functioning of the public network in the fields of education, education, education and, on the other hand, the possibilities necessary for the operation of private initiatives or private kindergartens. In this case, it seems more appropriate that this flexible decision is possible to exercise the competence of local communities or municipalities, because they know more precisely how much they can also co-finance a private initiative, how much interest the local community is in to co-finance it, whether this interest is greater in terms of capacity or less. We actually define this at 85%, then, for the first time, we give a smaller opportunity to monitor the situation in the area of preschool education in the area of the municipality and, on the other hand, we suppress private initiative. I have already said that it is a step backwards, this proposal does not take account of our assessment of the material costs. Since it does not take into account material costs, after the adoption of this law, private schools are in a subordinate position to provide funds to local communities. We therefore believe that this amendment, which we have proposed, is still in place because it offers the possibility of assessing the situation for local communities as well as their financial capabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Tomažic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. The funding system for private kindergartens is based on the principle that the kindergarten is provided 85% of the difference between the price of the same programme in public kindergarten and the payment paid by parents if the child is included in public kindergarten. Private kindergartens, however, are not limited or remain autonomous in terms of the level of payments. Nor shall any other financial resources that a private kindergarten may have. Therefore, from the perspective of the system regime, it does not seem particularly justified that, in the case of the inclusion of a child from a socially disadvantaged family, which, according to the new law, will be granted the right to exemption from payment, the establishment of 100% funding. As for the municipality, like those who decide how it will regulate the organisation of child care in their area, it is, of course, a choice: whether it is a public kindergarten, whether it is a school with a 100% concession, or whether it will leave it to a private kindergarten, where in our opinion 85% of the funding is quite favourable and among the more favourable cases in Europe. That is why we oppose these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I see that I can conclude the debate on Article 8. The amendments will be voted on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today at 2.05 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 13.25 a.m. we will move on to the 10th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on external matters, a reduced procedure. I thank the representatives of the government very much for their cooperation. So we continue at 13.25 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u106	Dear representatives of the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Minister with co-workers! We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and amendments to the law on external matters - the summary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Once again, I welcome Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mitjo Struklja, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Majdo Filipovska, Under-Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I give my word to a government representative. Who's going to give the introductory explanation? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u107	Mr President! Dear Members! Let me say something at the beginning. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters provides for amendments and additions to this law, which, however, entered into force on 22 June 2001. The draft amendments to the law were approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 29 May 2003. It was then discussed by the Committee of your National Foreign Policy Assembly at its 70th regular meeting on 26 June this year. The Committee voted on individual articles of the bill and adopted them together with amendments supported by the government. Amendments and additions to the current shelter are necessary despite the improvements made by the latter in comparison with the previous law on external matters, as some of the solutions have been inadequate or inconsistent. Let me briefly tell you what the objectives of the bill or those amendments are. Firstly, it is a matter of aligning the introduction of titles with the law on civil servants. Secondly, it is a matter of rectification of the validity or consumption of part three of the law. Thirdly, it is a matter of equalizing the position of an extra-marital partner of a diplomat with the position of a spouse, fourthly, to provide a legal basis for the processing of certain personal data and then to make some technical corrections. If you'll excuse me, just for a little bit about the individual articles. Article 1 is an amendment to Article 27 and this amendment is entirely editorial in nature. It corrects the incorrect instructions for the application of other articles which have been the result of disregarding the renumbering of Articles from Article 32 and beyond. A new Article 32 was added in the consideration in the National Assembly. This is an international civilian mission. Article 2 is the new Article 29a, which provides an adequate legal basis for the processing of personal data in the performance of consular functions, the provision of assistance and support or the protection of the interests of its citizens. The provision of assistance and support and the protection of the interests of its citizens are two fundamental consular functions. For their effective operation, it is necessary to obtain basic data on a Slovenian citizen who is abroad and who needs assistance, and also for his relatives, it is necessary to obtain basic data from them. In cases where this is not possible, personal data should be obtained from its family members or through existing personal data sets. Relatively broad possibilities for obtaining personal data are urgently needed due to the rapid and effective provision of assistance and protection for Slovenian citizens abroad. Examples where personal data are to be obtained include, for example, the provision of assistance in the event of natural disasters, the identification of the addresses of dependents, both abroad and in the country where they do not fulfil maintenance obligations. For example, when it comes to the need to determine the eligibility of funds from the maintenance fund, then to provide free legal assistance to Slovenian citizens who are in prison or in detention abroad and who are represented by lawyers under official duties, and in similar cases. This supplement is therefore sufficient for the criteria for the processing of personal data laid down by the Constitution and the Personal Data Protection Act. In this way, the proposal provides appropriate instruments for the implementation of the existing obligations of the State to be implemented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Article 3 amends Article 45 and is already editorial in nature. He's doing the wrong numbering. Article 4 adds to Article 51 by comparing the position of the extra-marital partner with the diplomat's spouse as regards the right to return to the employment relationship and the right to recognition of the insurance period. This supplement follows a number of other laws that have aligned the position of an extra-marital partner with that of a spouse in their areas. For example, I am referring here to the law on pension and disability insurance, the law on inheritance, the law on employment relations and so on. This is, of course, also in the interest of Slovenian diplomacy. Then here are Articles 5 and 6. It is a matter of amending or supplementing Article 62 and Article 62a. This is about ensuring an adequate legal basis for the processing of personal data relating to the issue of diplomatic, consular and service cards. Amendments and additions eliminate the lack of regulation in this field and meet the criteria for the processing of personal data laid down by the law and the law on the protection of personal data. Article 7 is an amendment to Article 71 and is editorial in nature; it is a typographical error. Article 8 amends Article 92. This is the elimination of working experience in the translation of titles. This law thus follows the law on civil servants and prevents interference with the rights of diplomats acquired. Complementarity is already again in fact editorial nature. To say this, the change in the translation of titles from an existing diplomatic one has brought about the deletion of the condition of the fulfilment of the required work experience, thus allowing the existing situation to be preserved in translation and preserving the rights already acquired by the Ministry staff. However, the supplement complies with the terminology in Article 39 of the current law. Article 9 is then replaced by the first two paragraphs of Article 94 by a new article, which also formally binds the application of the provisions of the third part of the Act on the date of application rather than on the date of entry into force, i.e. the date of application of the provisions of the Civil Servants Act. It is clear from certain other articles of the third part of the current law that it can only be applied as from the date of application of the Law on Civil Servants and not from the date of its application, as provided for in Article 94 of the Law in force. On the basis of what I have said here, on the basis of the text you have before you, I propose that the National Assembly of Amendments and Supplements to the Law on External Matters adopts and approves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u108	The Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the parent working body, has considered the proposal for a law and I ask my colleague, Janez Sponik, to submit a report on behalf of the Committee as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Allow me to brief you as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. At its 70th regular meeting, held on 26 June, this year, our committee addressed this bill, which it sent to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We were informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which had some comments on the law itself. At our own meeting, we held a debate and, above all, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we also adopted amendments to Articles 2, 6, and 9. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we have drawn up on the Committee a supplementary proposal for a law, and in the supplementary proposal, which forms the basis of this report, the amendments adopted by the Committee are also included. We invite colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly to adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you to the rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the groups and once again I give the floor to my colleague Janez Podobnik for the views of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly support the proposed law on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Part of the law is classic, technical law, since it is about harmonising the translation of diplomatic titles and certain other amendments. From article to article, Mr external minister spoke about them. Perhaps the adoption of this law would be an opportunity for us to identify the following in the national assembly, which adopted the basic law a good year and a half ago. That Slovenian diplomacy, after the great success of Slovenian foreign policy, is called, as it were, just before the entry into the European Union and the union of NATO, that Slovenian diplomacy, together with all other professional services, will adapt to this fact, so that we will be in a different place in the European Union in a short time. This means a change in logistics, especially for philosophy, for the concept of the work of the Foreign Ministry. Only convinced that Mr. Foreign Minister feels this different pulse very well and knows it, but you are strong when you prepare for a change earlier. We are aware of some of the reorganisations that have already been prepared in terms of diplomatic activities in those environments where the European Union authorities and agencies have their seats. There will be the most competent, ambitious, working and dialogue-oriented individuals from Slovenia, preferably young people in combination with older and experienced people. Slovenia has both. Some of the solutions found in this law will also help. They are touching the personal levels of diplomats, and this is important. When I was preparing for this show last night, I went through two books that I had on my nightstand, if I may say so. One is "Homodiplomaticus Slovenicus" [[Bojan Grobovšek]] And the other one is the older one who took care of it, and he was a master at the time, and today he's a doctor, Milan Jazbec, the Diplomacy and Slovenians. In this book I have seen the thought that diplomacy and diplomacy are primarily virtues. And this virtue must be nurtured and respected. One element of statehood and state is also good diplomacy. Let today's law help Slovenia have even better diplomacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Ivan Kebric has the floor to present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we have carefully examined this amendment of the law tabled by the Foreign Ministry. Since the time is short, I will first commend what we think is necessary and proper for you to change this law. In particular, I am talking about the possibility of processing the personal data required by the provision of assistance and support to our citizens abroad, which is not only to say hello, but essential. Another time. We support a well-founded proposal to align the position of an extramarital partner with marriage, because in our country this is well arranged and it is not necessary to follow the example of those who have this old-fashioned, otherwise arranged. But we are very critical of the next question we have for you, Mr Minister. In Article 8, you make a substantial change, same as in Article 9. I ask you this: When we adopted this law in May 2001, you stated what is necessary for a quality diplomatic service. You have set the criteria for how much work experience is needed in addition to education. We were happy to accept this because we believed that the quality of diplomatic service, or diplomatic servants and employees, would also be enhanced through our work experience. Now, all of a sudden, when you realized that the law on civil servants was supposed to regulate wage policy throughout Slovenia, which we advocated that every area of the law would not regulate this area of wages, and all of a sudden, no more experience was needed, because you simply delete everything. I understand why you did this because you explained - given the need to see how these personnel will then be classified in accordance with the Law on Public Servants. And there, I'm sorry to say, it doesn't work at home anymore. Work experience after years with or on what will be the law that will enter into force, as I said, on January 1st - you are not going, I repeat, together. And now you're just shutting down all your experiences, and you don't even mention them anymore. I would understand that you are coordinating them with public servants' laws, because one thing is clear to us that no one with a new law that will enter into force on 1 January 2004 should be deprived of or should not be reduced in wages. The problem is that me and our Group of Members are just so easy to remove all the necessary work experience - why you have not reduced or reduced them and come with such a proposal, which we would certainly understand and understand. Therefore, even in Article 9, what you say is not exactly what you said in the explanation of an article, as I said, but you have made everything better and written just as it is in your favour to justify the amendment of this law. If you give us a satisfactory answer, we will vote in favour or you can still do something else, because I am sure that this is not the last amendment to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you, colleague Kebrič, but I must warn you again: we are in another reading, we are only in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members until the final draft of the law, in which no amendments have been tabled. And there is no longer - well, questions are admissible, but there will be no answer to the question. For this, the committee was able to discuss, ask questions, get answers and possibly make amendments. That's what we have in our rules of procedure, until we change it, so I'll be in charge of the session. I give the floor to Dr. Jožet Bernnik for the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary and escort, ladies and gentlemen. Proposals for novelties for this law are purely technical, while others are more substantive. Five points have been changed. Harmonising the translation of titles with the Law on Public Servants to the correction of the date of application of the third part of the law, the equivalence, the position of the foreign partner of the diplomat with the status of the spouse, providing the legal basis for the processing of certain personal data and then amending certain articles. First of all, I would like to mention the provision of a legal basis for the processing of certain data. As we have already discussed at the Committee's meeting, Article 45, which is the Vienna Convention, of course, also has a dictatorship by which countries take care of their citizens. However, it seems that this cannot be changed, and this article is needed to protect data for those who live outside or for the Slovenians who live at home, and they certainly need help outside. I think that's very good. In addition, I think it is very good that we are thinking about protecting personal data here in terms of what our people in the world are giving, what information they give about themselves, and then what information is needed for the cards they get. Although I have a problem with this, one article says that these data can be used by foreign ministry workers to carry out tasks in their field of work. Since this is also the subject of exports of data to other countries, I imagine that this use of these personal data comes from the external ministry also to the staff members' offices. I don't know how it's arranged there, but I would like to know that this data is also protected and used only for the purposes set out in the law. Also interesting is the third point, which discusses the equalization of the position of an extra-marital partner with the status of a diplomat with the status of a spouse. This man understands, although some countries do not have it in their laws. But what I'm curious about is that there's talk about a long-term marriage partner. It seems to me that it may not be fair for those who fall under this clause, because for a long time the living community can, of course, be different in the eyes of one another, and I am very interested in who decides it, because in marriage, I thought that somewhere was said 1 year, but when I examined it, I did not find it. After the harmonisation of the titles of the Civil Servants Act, I fully agree that this was probably unwise, especially because there is no compensation. And so some of the standards that have been introduced are no longer in law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, in itself, a mystery of what diplomats are called etc., etc. - We don't even know, and because of this, I don't know where the standards were written. Well, let me finish. I would like to remind you of the monument that our National Assembly has adopted, the Slovenians in place and around the world, and it also says there that Slovenians around the world should be able to participate in the service of external affairs. And I don't know if this is going into this law, but it might be good to remember that this is in the resolution and that it is necessary to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. Zmago Jelinčič is a member of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the law needed changes and additions, and now we have this addition or change before us. But there are a few things that bother us. If we're going straight. A new Article 29a is added for Article 29, which states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs obtains data on Slovenian citizens and that such data can also be obtained from family members. I don't know how much this is consistent with the Personal Data Protection Act. Because if this isn't coordinated, then there could be a huge legal error here. But if it is, I see that the co-worker of the Ministry of Kima - that is to say, I am glad that this is coordinated. In Article 45, in the first indent, I think it would make sense that the obligation of diplomats is also to protect and care for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. The protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia means that the operation for the country is somehow narrowed down to the lowest common denominator. Therefore, I think it would make sense to write "to protect and take care of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, the reputation of the State etc. "When we move on to Article 51 or Article 4 of this Law, it states that "the rights of the first and second paragraphs of Article shall also be enjoyed by a person who, prior to leaving a diplomat abroad, lived with him for a long time in the community of life." I think we can explain differently here what it means to have a long-term living community. In addition, another question is asked here. For example, if someone is a diplomat with a four-year term, after one year, he gets to live with him when he's abroad, an extramarital partner, or a partner. How will this be arranged? I think there's going to be some more reflection here, and the ministry will have to think about it a little bit more. But we are most disturbed by the third paragraph in general, which discusses the specific rights and obligations of diplomats. In fact, there's no record of what happens to a diplomat if he doesn't stick to the law. Is he calling it off? Is he being punished? As it turns out, nothing happens to him. The fact is, in most cases, diplomats do not get involved and, regardless of how they represent Slovenia - and often very poorly represent Slovenia, they represent only their own interests to a large extent. Strange things are happening when some diplomatic representatives simply lose the compass and even declare that they will not watch local television in that country and read newspapers because they know everything anyway and that they don't care about it and things like that. The diplomatic service of the Republic of Slovenia is largely weak worldwide. And many times it happens that Slovenian citizens who seek help at Slovenian diplomatic missions do not get it. Enough! I also don't think it's a processed segment of the economic attaché. The economic attaché is one of the most important functions of each diplomatic representation of other countries. We have a diplomatic representation here, who have never received any economic representatives before, and they are avoided by economic representatives because they say they get nothing at our embassies anyway. I'm not talking about everyone. I'm talking about a lot of people. Unfortunately, there are more than half of these. I think that the Minister should take this into account, and I hope that he will prepare another correction, or another supplementary bill, or amendment of the law amending and supplementing the law on external matters, where he will also take these matters into account. Above all, yes, let's say that when diplomats really make mistakes, these diplomats are called off and properly sanctioned. And so far, when diplomats return, even in the National Assembly, we have not received a single report on what a certain diplomatic representative abroad has done well in Slovenia and not a single report from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on how this man has acted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor for the position of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that these are less difficult amendments to the basic law, so we support its solutions. While we believe that some provisions in the existing law should be amended and we are surprised that the Ministry has not taken advantage of this opportunity to submit these changes, which would be more lifelike. Most of the law concerns completely technical matters, but it also concerns some important, personal, life-related matters faced by our diplomats and their legal or extramarital partners. In order not to repeat questions as to whether the provisions of the Act are in line with the Personal Data Protection Act, I would ask whether, when it is added in the third paragraph of Article 51, I would ask for experience under the second paragraph of this Article. Indeed, this article says, "the law is for a diplomat referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article who is abroad with a diplomat, who has the right to return to the work of the organisation or to an employer where he has had a working relationship." This amendment now extends to an extramarital partner. However, I would like to know how this right to return to the work organisation or to the employer is. Is that just a right or is that the employer's duty? Does this apply only to public services or to economic organisations? Because these are important questions of life that are not just about diplomats. I'm also concerned with some other government officials and I'm wondering if this is a one-stop shop. I think in the Social Democratic Party, as I said before, we will support these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor for the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Social Democrats, we agree, of course, with the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs. The first issue, as we have heard, facilitates the conditions for the translation of diplomatic titles in order to comply with the law on civil servants. Maybe two words about it. The fact that the existing provision of the law on external matters sets an extremely high standard of work experience for the translation of titles would not be so wrong, vice versa. And how important work experience is when you trust someone with an important task, if you do not conflict with the law on civil servants and especially generate discrimination, such as in explanation, employees in the ministry and interfering with the rights already acquired. That is why we accept this change with understanding. Surely we are more convinced by the novel, which equates the position of an extra-marital partner of a diplomat with that of a marriage, following the regulation applicable to all legal areas. We also agree with the amendment that introduces into the law the legal basis for the processing of personal data in the exercise of consular functions by providing assistance and support to our citizens and citizens abroad and by protecting their interests. We know a number of situations where there have been complications and delays in the provision of this assistance due to the difficulty of accessing these data, which are, after all, completely normal data, as you can see in the proposal, i.e. for the name and surname, date and place of birth, EMHO, property, employment and so on, and so on, without which any consular intervention is disabled or difficult - to the detriment of the affected citizen or citizen. That is why we accept the amendment. We join the call of those who, in the emerging circumstances of joining the European Union and NATO, perhaps before 1 May next year, once again the Ministry of Review has established an existing applicable law and may propose further improvements so as not to get ahead of the agenda, of course, with what arrangements has not yet been fully agreed upon. Therefore, the call, of course, that we may look again before May 1st, at how foreign policy and the ministry will work in new circumstances and we will come in time for any additional changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. And the last position given by colleague Majda Shirca for the position of the LDS Club. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u123	Dear Minister! We also agree that there are more or less editorial or technical improvements, so I would not repeat the solutions, even because they have been very detailed in the explanation, but allow me to point out only one aspect of the changes contained in the updated existing ones, in fact not so long since the adopted resolution of the law on external matters. It is a suggestion that the situation as it is the law, a novelty that the position of an extra-marital partner of a diplomat is equal to that of a spouse. The existing law, which entered into force exactly two years ago, recognises in Article 51 the insurance period and the right to return the spouse only to the spouse, in short, the husband or the wife of a diplomat or diplomat, and not to his extramarital partner or partner. When adopting the law on external matters back then, perhaps two years ago, we all decided together in our conviction - at least I can say so myself - that Article 51 is covered and that it also covers extra-marital partners, otherwise we would probably not be silent. At that time, let's say that our conduct - at least mine - was based on a sure decades of lasting practice or on a good law that is from the time of Yugoslavia, where the divisions between the marriage and the extramarital relationship are not so much the case. This came into our minds as something logical in itself, or we adopted the solution to the point that it had become completely self - imposed. Yugoslavia has been - and is not valid and is no harm if we point out once again - one of the first countries to legalize in its constitution a free decision on the birth of children, and in Slovenia we have already been very early, that is to say, more than 30 years ago, an extramarital relationship with the marriage. So they also regulated the social and other rights of the so-called cornbeds. Decades of experience of this kind has become as logical and reasonable as it has been said that the rights of this title are almost no longer questioned, and obviously we are not even considering the law on external matters two years ago, thinking that it is already absorbing the law on marriage and family relations in 1976. There it stands - and today I have learned that this must be repeated, because as many as two debaters have somehow revealed this solution as new, although, as I say, it is from 1976 - and this law merely sums up the fact that for a long time the living community of men and women who have not entered into marriages has the same legal consequences as if the relationship of a partner legalised. In short, I suppose that when adopting the law on external matters there has been a lapsus and we are now meeting with the editors, in fact, it is also about harmonising other issues, not just that, both in the field of labour and the basis of personal data collection. In this sense, I do not think it was at that time a copy of the arrangements of some other countries which recognise only before the altar or at the home office of the confirmed union. And what's interesting is that countries that are by tradition, by definition or even by values, I'm going to say roughly, less liberal, these kind of equalization solutions don't know [[For example, Austrians, Irish, Portuguese, unlike Danes, Canadians and Dutch]] . In short, in summary, I hope that because of this lack of solution so far, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not the one that would lead to any marriage more than it had or would have been necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much, colleague Maja Shirtz. By presenting the position of the LDS Club of Members, we have concluded the presentation of the views of all the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is also not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude this debate and thus the second reading of the bill. Since the hour allows us to proceed immediately with the meeting, we will now break this agenda and move on to the vote. In the context of the vote, we will address decisions related to today's agenda items [[Of two]] And yesterday. First, we'll continue with break nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRAINING LAW, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. We're in second reading, deciding on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please? The National Assembly will now proceed to the vote. We have tabled amendments to a series of articles. We are beginning to decide on the proposal for an amendment by the Socialist Party's Group to Article 2. I will always wait for a moment for someone to declare their wish to explain their vote, or else we will go to the vote. I ask colleagues and colleagues who are now coming to take their seats. I'll wait a few more moments. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to Article 2. We're voting. 62 present, 23 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. The Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners proposes an amendment to Article 4. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Excuse me? Explanation of voice. I'm calling it off. I said I'd wait a few moments, but I'm asking everyone to check in at the time. Once I start a vote, I always interrupt it if the time limit is raised during the vote, but this is an act of non-involvement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against the amendment tabled because I think it is actually undermining some integrity and systemicity that we have in all areas, not just in the area of preschool education. It should be noted in particular that municipalities receive income from income on the basis of a person’s permanent residence. And in this sense, this amendment would be completely incorrect, and it also points to the opinion of the legal and legislative service, because it would in fact undermine the system that the municipality where the permanent residence is is also obliged to provide funds for children or to pay children in kindergarten even if they benefit from this service outside the municipality’s seat. It would also be to the detriment, especially to the detriment of parents, because in many cases there are also many municipalities in Slovenia where there are no kindergartens. How, though, will the price of kindergarten be set there because, in fact, there is no kindergarten and all the children are in other congregations? This is how I draw attention mainly to the opinion of the legislative and legal service, where the system, which also rules in the field of social affairs, in the area of payment, for example, care in the homes of pensioners, for special institutions and the like, where everything is paid by home, is said to be a permanent residence and I think it would be a precedent.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u126	We decide on the proposal or amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 4. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 63 present, 23 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party shall submit an amendment to Article 6. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. I will support the proposed amendment. In the case where parents are exempt from child care payments, we did not think it appropriate in the parliamentary group that the burden of this 15% difference should be automatically borne in private kindergarten and we proposed an amendment to provide the local community with 100% of the funds allocated to each child for the same programme in public kindergarten. Let me further explain why I will support this amendment. In the Committee's work, the report states that the representative of the applicant has ensured that the situation of private kindergartens does not deteriorate with this change. In our view, this information is not accurate. I have a study ahead of me, i.e. on special cases of kindergartens, in Slovenia there are 17 private ones, which show that, not the position of private kindergartens, but the position of parents, it is for parents, it is getting worse. It is a pity, because in a very different quality negotiation or negotiation of these solutions, in which representatives of both Slovenian associations of municipalities and representatives of institutions, kindergartens were involved, the representatives of private kindergartens were not involved. That's too bad, because I'd like to explain in very detail what the problem is here. There is also a need to say that it is a private initiative and it is in Slovenia in a sensitive phase when it is strengthened. And we are legislators, and if we make something wrong with the legislation, that means that such a legislative solution can deny further development. And in our opinion, this solution will reject further development, or otherwise: Today we are faced with the dilemma of defending only the interests of the congregations or the interests of children and parents. The synthesis of all these interests is to support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u128	It's going to be a national convention. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I will also support this amendment because this amendment speaks of less than 1% of all children in Slovenia who are involved in private kindergartens. In this case, 1% of children cannot be affected by the fact that we are talking about decommissioning municipalities, or by the non-acceptance of this amendment or by such a definition in the law that the state in this segment is making the conditions for the establishment of a private initiative worse. Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act states that, of course, a country or a local community helps kindergarteners if they are accessible to all children. The adoption of such a bill will undermine this possibility of ensuring equality of conditions for all children, because the standards for private kindergartens will be reduced and I will therefore also support the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u130	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment. On the Committee, we discussed and received a sufficiently valid argument from the proposer that, in this case, if a higher percentage were to be agreed on, children or private kindergartens would be privileged to finance in this case. I should simply point out that in Slovenia we have a well-developed network of public kindergartens, that where these networks are not available, there are also kindergartens with a consensus that the country has also enabled the development of private kindergartens. Again, I would like to refer to a comparative study carried out by our research sector, which speaks of European space as a growing number of public kindergartens in other countries, including private initiatives in those countries where prior to the reform of pre-school education, it has been slowly decreasing at the expense of the public kindergarten network, as it is only there that uniform standards and standards can be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u132	A fellow onion. I warn you, it's not a controversy, it's an explanation for the voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, I'll support this amendment. It is totally a misinterpretation of some because we treat private kindergartens and municipal kindergartens unevenly. I mean, I'm gonna say it the way we do in our congregation. We have a private kindergarten and it is not treated equally compared to municipal kindergartens. And what else does it mean? Private kindergartens have also saved municipal budgets for the investments themselves. These private kindergartens have been funded by their funds and have also solved problems, congregation hardships, which have failed to provide sufficient capacity for child protection. With this amendment, however, we would be equally financed, such as municipal schools, of course, in public institutions, whose founder is the congregation or local community. And the claims and references that these private kindergartens are in some way treated as well elsewhere in the world are not the moment in place. Once again, this private kindergarten has saved many lives of distress and financial turmoil among the municipalities and saved the normal protection of these children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u134	Two hands at a time. Comrade Jerovšek, colleague Lavrinc, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. Please, Comrade Jeroshek. I suggest we not repeat the controversy, explain our voice. The replicas are not possible. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u135	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment. It's from one experience. We are recently - the parliamentary group was in Koroškem with the Slovenian minority, and this private kindergarten has actually saved the prosperity of our minority. The state kindergarten supported by the State did not take place, and now they come from the whole bilingual area and even from the children of Austrian citizens. And if we were to apply this not to accept it, we would give, say, a comparative signal in comparison to the Austrian state to sanction the Slovenian kindergarten in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u136	Comrade Lavrinz. You're giving up. A colleague of Anna Maria Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. If I understand the amendment to Article 6 correctly, it is for those children whose parents pay nothing because they have such a standard. And in this case, if such a child goes to a private kindergarten, he gets only 80% of the cash for this child, the 15% that parents should give or, some parents can't give, then the private kindergarten has to cover itself. In this case, such children would not even have to go to kindergarten if this private kindergarten did not cover that 15%. If I understand this correctly, then I am in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u138	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I forgive myself because that few Members who were present here when we discussed will listen once again to this thing, but I stress: the financing of private institutions in the field of education and education in Slovenia is as follows. Where concession is concerned, that is, where the municipality or state considers that it needs additional capacity, there is a payment of 100 per cent; where the state or municipality does not need an additional kindergarten or school or something like that and is satisfied with working conditions - so I do not need it - and there it will not give a hundred per cent, but in good faith 85%, that it somehow supports this competition. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u140	Does anyone else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We will then decide on the proposal by the SLS delegation for an amendment to Article 6. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 6. 66 in attendance, 24 in and 41 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We have two amendments to Article 8. The first amendment was tabled by the SDS Group of Members, the second SLS Group of Members. We will first decide on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Anybody want to explain their voice? If this amendment is adopted, the next amendment will be irrelevant. That's what we decide. We decide on the amendment to Article 8 of the SDS. 68 present, 21 for and 45 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We can now also decide on the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to explain their voice? We decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 8. 66 present, 21 for and 41 for. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that no amendments have been tabled in the third reading, so that I inform you that the legislature and the government have not informed me that the legal text would be inconsistent. That's how we can make a decision about the law. Anybody want to explain their voice before that? Nobody. We're voting on the law. 70 in attendance, 58 in and 1 in. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been passed. We will now proceed with the decision to terminate 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY, this is about the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters. We will move on to the third reading of the draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I have no notice that the text would have been uncoordinated. Anybody want to explain their voice? We decide on the law. We are voting on a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters. 67 present, 54 for and 9 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. At the end of our work, we are still deciding on the termination of 3. Agenda items - Second draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the police. We'll move on to a decision on the amendment tabled. As far as I know, yesterday's things were explained, so there's no reason not for the National Assembly to decide. We decide on the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 3. We're voting. 70 in attendance, 22 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3 has not been adopted. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold the third reading of the bill on Tuesday, 15 July, following the conclusion of the last item of the agenda of this meeting. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Monday, 14 July at 10 a.m. Do you have a procedural proposal or a question of this nature? Please, mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! If we had completed today's work, I would have informed colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the Committee on Agriculture to resume the meeting immediately after this meeting and to try to end this meeting as an interested working body today. That's why I'm inviting you to Room 217 right after this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2003-07-11-SDZ3-Redna-28.ana.u142	Members of your committee are lucky to be able to continue their work today, the rest of them, unfortunately, don't have that kind of luck. I both want everything good this weekend and have a nice two days! On Monday, at 10 a.m., we continue our work. Thank you very much.
